Item 1A.Risk Factors

Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely Affect
Our Business and Results of Operations and These Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future

Our
business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset
classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices,
real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation, all affect the business and economic environment and,
ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our business through their effects on general
levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior. While our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may
reduce the benefits of diversification.

Our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure in
uncertain financial market conditions and as a result of low interest rates and our profit margins could erode. Also, in the event of extreme







prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to
substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.

We are a significant writer of variable insurance products
and certain other products issued through separate accounts. The account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. Decreases in account values reduce fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of
deferred policy acquisition costs (“DAC”) to accelerate and could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees.

Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital
markets, deflation and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate
earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. Group insurance, in particular, is affected by the higher unemployment rate. In addition, we may
experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings
negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

The recent financial crisis has precipitated, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. We cannot predict whether or when such actions
may occur, nor can we predict what ultimate impact, if any, either such actions or any of the legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions of the last several years could have on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. See “— Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our
Competitive Position,” “— Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,”
“— Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth,” and “— Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability.”

Concerns Over U.S. Fiscal Policy and the Trajectory of the National Debt of the U.S., as well as Rating Agency
Downgrades of U.S. Treasury Securities, Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Concerns over U.S. fiscal policy and the trajectory of the national debt could have severe repercussions to the U.S. and global credit and financial markets, further exacerbate concerns over sovereign
debt of other countries and disrupt economic activity in the U.S. and elsewhere. As a result, our access to, or cost of, liquidity may deteriorate.

In August 2011, S&P downgraded the AAA rating on U.S. Treasury securities to AA+ with a negative outlook, while Moody’s affirmed the Aaa rating on U.S. Treasury securities, but with a negative
outlook. In October 2011, Moody’s affirmed its August 2011 ratings, but revised its negative outlook to stable. In November 2011, Fitch affirmed its AAA rating on U.S. Treasury securities but changed its U.S. credit rating outlook to negative
from stable, citing the failure of a special Congressional committee to agree on certain deficit reduction measures and warning that it may in the future downgrade the U.S. credit rating unless action is taken to reduce the national debt of the U.S.

As a result of downgrades of U.S. Treasury securities, the market value of some of our investments may
decrease, and our capital adequacy could be adversely affected, which could require us to raise additional capital during a period of distress in financial markets, potentially at a higher cost. Further downgrades, together with the sustained
current trajectory of the national debt of the U.S., would significantly exacerbate the risks we face and any resulting adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including those







described under “— Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and These
Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future,” “— Adverse Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Ability to Meet Liquidity Needs, Access to Capital and Cost of Capital,” “— Our Participation
in a Securities Lending Program Subjects Us to Potential Liquidity and Other Risks” and “— The Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken on Our Investments is Subjective and Could Materially Impact Our Results of
Operations or Financial Position.” We cannot predict whether or when these adverse consequences may occur, what other unforeseen consequences may result, or the extent, severity and duration of the impact of such consequences on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.

Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and
Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position

The Federal Reserve Board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest
rates low and may take further actions to influence interest rates in the future, which may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales. There can be no assurance that these
actions will have the intended effect or what impact, if any, these actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

In addition, the U.S. federal government (including the FDIC) and private lenders have instituted programs to reduce the monthly payment obligations of mortgagors and/or reduce the principal payable on
residential mortgage loans. As a result of such programs or of any legislation requiring loan modifications, we may need to maintain or increase our engagement in similar activities in order to comply with program or statutory requirements and to
remain competitive. Increased attention is also being paid to the practices of lenders in connection with the mortgage modification process.

We cannot predict whether the funds made available by the U.S. federal government and its agencies, or other actions taken by the government, will stabilize or further revive the financial markets or harm
them or, if the U.S. federal government decides to distribute additional amounts, either by Federal Reserve Board action or by Congressional appropriation, whether those additional actions will have positive or negative effects.

The choices made by the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in their distribution of funds under any future
asset purchase programs, as well as any decisions made regarding the imposition of additional regulation on large financial institutions may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services industry more
than others. Some of our competitors have received, or may in the future







receive, benefits under one or more of the federal government’s programs. This could adversely affect our competitive position. See “— Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking
Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,” “— Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and
Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position,” and “— Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
Profitability.”

Adverse Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Ability to Meet
Liquidity Needs, Access to Capital and Cost of Capital

The capital and credit markets are sometimes
subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption. Such volatility and disruption could cause liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers to be limited.

We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our
securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity
considerations, deposit funds, and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include short-term instruments such as
funding agreements and commercial paper. Sources of capital in normal markets include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and equity securities.

In the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity, or any required regulatory
stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have such an impact beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs or regulatory requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional
financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our
credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity
decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we
may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.

Our liquidity
requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending agreements.

Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to
operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy regulatory capital requirements (under both insurance and banking laws);
and access the capital necessary to grow our business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Regulatory Changes.” See also “Business — U.S.
Regulation — Financial Holding Company Regulation” for information relating to the possible impact on us of Regulation YY, Basel II and Basel III, “Business — U.S. Regulation — Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory
Developments” for a discussion of the possible impact on us of Dodd-Frank, and “Business — International Regulation” for information relating to Solvency II. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different
types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our
financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets.







Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in
Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth

Insurance Regulation — U.S.Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Insurance
Regulation.” State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our U.S insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance regulators of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they are
licensed.

State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory and other state authorities broad administrative
powers with respect to, among other things:



•licensing companies and agents to transact business;



•calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;



•mandating certain insurance benefits;



•regulating certain premium rates;



•reviewing and approving policy forms;



•regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution
arrangements and payment of inducements, and identifying and paying to the states benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners;



•regulating advertising;



•protecting privacy;



•establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;



•fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity
contracts;



•approving changes in control of insurance companies;



•restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and



•regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.

State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for
funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential
liabilities may not be adequate. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation — Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements.”

State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance
companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, that are made for the benefit of the consumer sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition and results of operations.

U.S. Federal Regulation Affecting
Insurance.  Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, Dodd-Frank allows federal regulators to compel state insurance regulators to liquidate an insolvent insurer under some
circumstances if the state regulators have not acted within a specific period. It also establishes the Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international
insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards.







While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office will perform various functions with respect to insurance, including
serving as a non-voting member of the FSOC and making recommendations to the FSOC regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. The director is also required to submit a report to Congress regarding how to modernize and improve
the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increasing national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states.

Federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance
companies. These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, mortgage regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms
of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. Other aspects of our insurance operations could also be
affected by Dodd-Frank. For example, Dodd-Frank imposes restrictions on the ability of affiliates of insured depository institutions (such as MetLife Bank) to engage in proprietary trading or sponsor or invest in hedge funds or private equity funds.
See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments — Volcker Rule.”

Banking and Bank Holding Company Regulation.  As a federally chartered national banking association, MetLife Bank is subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and guidelines.
Federal banking and consumer financial protection laws regulate most aspects of the business of MetLife Bank, but certain state laws may apply as well. MetLife Bank is principally regulated by the OCC and the CFPB, and secondarily by the Federal
Reserve and the FDIC.

Federal banking laws and regulations address various aspects of MetLife Bank’s
business and operations with respect to, among other things:



•chartering to carry on business as a bank;



•the permissibility of certain activities;



•maintaining minimum capital ratios;



•capital management in relation to the bank’s assets;



•dividend payments and repurchases of securities, including common stock;



•safety and soundness standards;



•loan loss and other related liabilities;



•liquidity;



•financial reporting and disclosure standards;



•counterparty credit concentration;



•restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions;



•lending limits (and, in addition, Dodd-Frank includes the credit exposures arising from securities lending by MetLife Bank within lending limits
otherwise applicable to loans);



•payment of interest;



•unfair or deceptive acts or practices;



•mortgage servicing practices;



•privacy; and



•relationships with MetLife, Inc. in its capacity as a bank holding company and potentially with other investors in connection with a change in
control of MetLife Bank.







Federal banking regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and
regulations applicable to banks and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the bank and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition and results of operations of MetLife Bank.

From 2008 until January 2012, MetLife Bank
significantly increased its mortgage servicing activities by acquiring servicing portfolios. Currently, MetLife Bank services approximately 1% of the aggregate principal amount of the mortgage loans serviced in the U.S. In January 2012, MetLife,
Inc. announced that MetLife Bank was exiting its forward mortgage origination business. The Company continues to originate reverse mortgages and will continue to service its current mortgage customers.

State and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations or
examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry. Mortgage servicing practices have also been the subject of Congressional attention. Authorities have publicly stated that the scope
of the investigations extends beyond foreclosure documentation practices to include mortgage loan modification and loss mitigation practices. See “— The Resolution of Several Issues Affecting the Financial Services Industry Could Have a
Negative Impact on Our Reported Results or on Our Relations with Current and Potential Customers.”

In
addition, Dodd-Frank established the CFPB that supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance
business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB has authority to regulate consumer services provided by MetLife Bank and non-insurance consumer services provided elsewhere throughout MetLife. See “Business — U.S. Regulation —
Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments — Consumer Protection Laws.” We cannot predict how regulation by the CFPB might affect our business.

The Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule requires all bank holding companies with assets of more than $50
billion, including MetLife, Inc., to submit annual capital plans which include projections of the company’s capital levels under baseline and stress scenarios over a nine-quarter period. The Federal Reserve will approve or object to a
company’s proposed capital actions, such as dividends and stock repurchases, based on the results of those capital plans and the Federal Reserve’s assessment of the robustness of the company’s capital planning processes. In addition,
in recent years the Federal Reserve has conducted its own assessment of large bank holding companies’ internal capital planning processes, capital adequacy and proposed capital distributions. In 2011, the Federal Reserve conducted the CCAR
2011. In October 2011, we announced that the Federal Reserve







had concluded that our planned capital actions submitted as part of CCAR 2011 should be tested under a revised adverse macroeconomic scenario developed for those firms participating in the CCAR
2012. As a result, the Federal Reserve did not approve MetLife, Inc.’s planned dividend increase and other proposed capital actions. In January 2012, we submitted to the Federal Reserve a comprehensive capital plan, as mandated by the capital
plans rule, and additional information required by CCAR 2012. The capital plan projects MetLife’s capital levels to the end of 2013 under baseline and stress scenarios, including a stress scenario developed and provided by the Federal Reserve
as part of CCAR 2012. The Federal Reserve has stated that it will consider the results of the capital plan exercise and CCAR 2012 in evaluating proposed capital actions by participating bank holding companies, such as common stock dividend increases
and stock repurchases, and that it will provide its assessment of participating institutions’ capital plans in mid-March 2012. There can be no assurance that the Federal Reserve will approve our capital plans.

Under Dodd-Frank, all bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, such as
MetLife, Inc., are required to be “well capitalized” and “well managed” as defined by the Federal Reserve, on a consolidated basis, and not just at their depository institution(s), a higher standard than was applicable to
financial holding companies before Dodd-Frank. If we are unable to meet these standards, we could be subject to activity restrictions, ultimately be required to divest certain operations and be restricted in our ability to pay dividends, repurchase
common stock or other securities, or engage in transactions that could affect our capital or need for capital. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory Developments.”

Once MetLife Bank has completely exited its depository business, MetLife, Inc. plans to terminate MetLife Bank’s
FDIC insurance, putting MetLife, Inc. in a position to be able to deregister as a bank holding company. Upon completion of the foregoing, we will no longer be regulated as a bank holding company or subject to enhanced supervision and prudential
standards as a bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more. However, if, in the future, MetLife, Inc. is designated by the FSOC as a non-bank systemically important financial institution, it would once again be subject to regulation by
the Federal Reserve and enhanced supervision and prudential standards, such as Regulation YY. In October 2011, the FSOC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking outlining the process it will follow and the criteria it will use to assess whether a
non-bank financial company should be subject to enhanced supervision by the Federal Reserve as a non-bank systemically important financial institution. If MetLife, Inc. meets the quantitative thresholds set forth in the proposal, the FSOC will
continue with a further analysis using qualitative and quantitative factors. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Financial Holding Company Regulation” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations — Industry Trends.”

The FDIC has the right to assess FDIC-insured banks for
funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to depositors. Because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. In
addition, Dodd-Frank will result in increased assessments for banks with assets of $10 billion or more, which includes MetLife Bank. In addition, large bank holding companies and non-bank systemically important financial institutions can be assessed
under Dodd-Frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company and, under a proposal of the U.S. Treasury published on January 3, 2012, will be assessed to cover the expenses of
the Office of Financial Research, an agency established by Dodd-Frank to improve the quality of financial data available to policymakers and facilitate more robust and sophisticated analysis of the financial system.

Regulation of Brokers and Dealers.  Dodd-Frank also authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of
conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of
the broker or dealer providing the advice. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation” and “— Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and
State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability.”







International Regulation

We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally to continue
to increase. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. The regulatory environment in the
countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “— Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and
Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability” and “Business — International Regulation.”

Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Summary.  From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of MetLife,
Inc.’s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the interpretations of
regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. We are also subject to other regulations and may in the future become subject to
additional regulations. See “Business — U.S. Regulation” and “Business — International Regulation.”

Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
Profitability







addition, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers’ associations and trade unions in some countries. In several countries,
including China and India, we operate with local business partners with the resulting risk of managing partner relationships to the business objectives. If our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our
investment in building and training the sales force in that country.

We are expanding our international
operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. This may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in
new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and
our results of operations may be negatively impacted.

In addition, in recent years, the operating environment
in Argentina has been very challenging. In Argentina, we were formerly principally engaged in the pension business. In December 2008, the Argentine government nationalized the Social Security System and moved pension fund assets into the
government-run system, effectively eliminating the private pension companies in Argentina. As a result, we have experienced and will continue to experience reductions in the operation’s revenues and cash flows. In February 2011, the Argentine
Superintendent of Insurance (“SSN”) enacted a resolution effectively prohibiting cross-border reinsurance operations. In October 2011, the SSN enacted a resolution which affects our ability to invest and diversify abroad – as of
December 31, 2011, all investments and funds must be located in Argentina. Further governmental or legal actions related to our operations in Argentina could negatively impact our operations in Argentina and result in future losses. See Note 16
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We also have operations in the Middle East where the
legal and political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to instability and disruptions. Lack of legal certainty and stability in the region exposes our operations to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by
regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in this region.

We have market presence in over 50 different countries and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. Europe has recently experienced a deep recession and countries such
as Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece and Ireland have been particularly affected by the recession, resulting in increased national debts and depressed economic activity. We have significant operations and investments in these countries which could be
adversely affected by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing inflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment and currency instability. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations — Investments — Current Environment.”

We face increased exposure to the Japanese
markets as a result of our considerable presence there. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Current Environment,” and “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Japan.” The Japanese economy was significantly negatively impacted by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, and the resulting serious disruption
to power supplies and release of radiation from a damaged nuclear power plant in northeastern Japan. The impact of these events is uncertain and difficult to predict. Deterioration in Japan’s economic environment could have an adverse effect on
our results of operations and financial condition. Any weakening of the yen against the U.S. dollar would adversely affect the estimated fair value of our yen-denominated investments, our investments in Japan subsidiaries and our net income from
operations in Japan. See “— Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability.” Changes in market interest rates may also have an adverse effect on our investments and operations in Japan. See
“— Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability.”







Various Aspects of Dodd-Frank Could Impact Our Business Operations, Capital
Requirements and Profitability and Limit Our Growth

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed
Dodd-Frank. Various provisions of Dodd-Frank could affect our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory
Developments.”

Moreover, Dodd-Frank potentially affects such a wide range of the activities and markets in which we engage and participate that it may not be possible to anticipate all of the ways in which it could
affect us. For example, many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. Historical market behavior may be altered by the enactment of
Dodd-Frank. As a result of this enactment and otherwise, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate.

The Resolution of Several Issues Affecting the Financial Services Industry Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Reported Results or
on Our Relations with Current and Potential Customers

We will continue to be subject to legal and
regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our business, both in the U.S. and internationally. This could result in a challenge of business sold in the past under previously acceptable market practices at the time. Regulators are increasingly
interested in the approach that product providers use to select third-party distributors and to monitor the appropriateness of sales made by them. In some cases, product providers can be held responsible for the deficiencies of third-party
distributors. In addition, regulators are auditing compliance by life insurers with state unclaimed property laws. See “— Litigation and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our Businesses and May Result in Significant
Financial Losses and/or Harm to Our Reputation.”

As a result of publicity relating to widespread
perceptions of industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms.

MetLife Bank’s mortgage servicing has been the subject of recent inquiries and requests by state and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities. MetLife Bank is cooperating with the
authorities’ review of this business. On April 13, 2011, the OCC entered into consent decrees with several banks, including MetLife Bank. The consent decrees require an independent review of foreclosure practices and set forth new
residential mortgage servicing standards, including a requirement for a designated point of contact for a borrower during the loss mitigation process. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board entered into consent decrees with the affiliated bank
holding companies of these banks, including MetLife, Inc., to enhance the supervision of the mortgage servicing activities of their banking subsidiaries. In a February 9, 2012 press release, the Federal Reserve Board announced that it had
issued monetary sanctions against five banking organizations for deficiencies in the







organizations’ servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing of foreclosures. The Federal Reserve Board also stated that it plans to announce monetary penalties against six other
institutions under its supervision against whom it had issued enforcement actions in 2011 for deficiencies in servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing foreclosures. The Federal Reserve Board did not identify these six institutions, but
MetLife, Inc. is among the institutions that entered into consent decrees with the Federal Reserve Board in 2011. MetLife Bank has also had a meeting with the Department of Justice regarding mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices. It is
possible that various state or federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities may seek monetary penalties from MetLife Bank relating to foreclosure practices. MetLife Bank is responding to a subpoena issued by the New York State Department of
Financial Services regarding hazard insurance and flood insurance that MetLife Bank obtains to protect the lienholder’s interest when the borrower’s insurance has lapsed.

These consent decrees, as well as the inquiries or investigations referred to above, could adversely affect our
reputation or result in material fines, penalties, equitable remedies or other enforcement actions, and result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations or other litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of any such
actions or reviews. In addition, the changes to the mortgage servicing business required by the consent decrees and the resolution of any other inquiries or investigations may affect the profitability of such business. See “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends.”

The
MetLife Bank Events may not relieve MetLife from complying with the consent decrees, or protect it from the inquiries and investigations relating to residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure activities, or any fines, penalties, equitable
remedies or enforcement actions that may result, the costs of responding to any such governmental investigations, or other litigation.

We Are Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income to
Vary from Period to Period

We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk,
including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the global economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors, including
governments, included in our portfolio and other factors outside our control.

Our exposure to interest rate
risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates will impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio. If long-term
interest rates rise dramatically within a six to 12 month time period, certain of our life insurance businesses and fixed annuity business may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may
surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate fixed income investments in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance
businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, and structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates may
result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance liabilities, creating asset-liability duration mismatches.

Our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary
policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Changes in interest rates will impact both the net unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income portfolio and the rates of return we
receive on funds invested. Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to
the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. For certain of our liability portfolios, it is not possible to invest assets to the full liability duration, thereby creating some amount of ALM mismatch. For this and other reasons, we also
use derivative instruments to mitigate interest rate risk. However, our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate fixed income







investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the cash flow profile of the liability. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate
environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our liabilities. See also “— Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability.”

Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with
changes in credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads will adversely impact both the net unrealized gain or loss position of the fixed-income investment portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit-based non-qualifying derivatives where
we assume credit exposure, and, if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an extended period of time, will likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments (“OTTI”). Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment
income associated with new purchases of fixed maturity securities. In addition, market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates
that may have significant period-to-period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit
spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses,
impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions.

Our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial and agricultural real estate. Our exposure to commercial
and agricultural real estate risk stems from various factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, market conditions including the demand and supply of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets
volatility and the inherent interest rate movement. In addition, our real estate joint venture development program is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, reduced property sales and decreased availability of financing which could
adversely impact the joint venture developments and/or operations. The state of the economy and speed of recovery in fundamental and capital market conditions in the commercial and agricultural real estate sectors will continue to influence the
performance of our investments in these sectors. These factors and others beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through net investment income, realized
investment losses and levels of valuation allowances.

Our investment portfolio contains investments in
government bonds issued by certain European Union member States, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, commonly referred to as “Europe’s perimeter region,” as well as Cyprus, and in financial institutions that have
significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by those nations. Recently, the European Union member states have experienced above average public debt, inflation and unemployment as the global economic downturn has developed. A number of
member states are significantly impacted by the economies of their more influential neighbors, such as Germany.







In addition, financial troubles of one nation can lead to troubles in others. In particular, a number of large European banks hold significant amounts of sovereign and/or financial institution
debt of other European nations and could experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in the value of such debt. These difficulties or concern that they may occur could disrupt the functioning of the financial markets. Our investment
portfolio also contains investments in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of U.S. states and municipalities and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of U.S. states and municipalities (collectively, “Municipal Bonds”).
Recently, certain U.S. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. There can be no assurance that the financial difficulties of such U.S. states and municipalities would not have an adverse impact on our
Municipal Bond portfolio.

A possible result of the disruption in Europe is the withdrawal of one or more
countries from the Euro zone. The extent to which our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net investment income would be affected by any such withdrawal will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of the
withdrawing country and the likelihood that other counties will follow suit. Risks related to any such withdrawal could include overall economic disruption; capital flight, with attendant risks to the integrity of the European Union banking system;
conversion to a national currency, which may be subject to devaluation as discussed further below; inflation risks; increased costs and diminished effectiveness in hedging against declines in the value of the Euro; declines in the value of our
investments; credit losses; and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate risks, among others.

Our
primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under “— Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability.” Changes in these factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect our net
investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. Foreign currency exchange risk will increase if a country withdraws from the Euro zone. The national currency to which such a country may revert will likely be devalued and
contracts using the Euro will need to be renegotiated. It is possible that any such devaluation could be significant. We cannot predict the extent of such a devaluation, or the effect of it on our contracts, on our investments in bonds governed by
the law of any such country, or on our investments in financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by any such country. Any operations we may have in any such withdrawing country could also be materially
adversely affected by legal or governmental actions related to conversion from the Euro to a national currency.

A portion of our investments is made in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds, many of
which make private equity investments. The amount and timing of net investment income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments, including private equity investments. The timing of
distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds’ schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of
net investment income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. In addition, the
extent to which MetLife, Inc. can continue to invest in such funds is uncertain under Dodd-Frank.

Continuing
challenges include continued weakness in the U.S. real estate market, investor anxiety over the U.S. and European economies, defaults or declines in the value of sovereign or financial institution debt, rating agency downgrades of various structured
products and financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds, sustained high levels of unemployment and the continuing
recovery in the inter-bank market. Significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar which, individually or in
tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions.

Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our Profitability

Some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts,
expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or “spread,” or







the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on general account investments intended to
support obligations under the contracts. Our spread is a key component of our net income.

Some of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid and Are in Asset Classes That Have Been Experiencing Significant Market
Valuation Fluctuations

We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately-placed
fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans and leveraged leases, equity real estate, including real estate joint ventures and funds, and other limited partnership interests. These asset classes represented 28.3% of the carrying value of
our total cash and investments at December 31, 2011. In recent years, even some of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. If we require significant amounts of cash on
short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return cash collateral in connection with our investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending program, we may have difficulty selling these
investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described above and,
at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our







investments in the global market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we could be forced to sell them at significantly
lower prices. Some provisions of Dodd-Frank may lower the prices for certain fund investments by forcing them to be sold over a relatively short period of time.

Our Participation in a Securities Lending Program Subjects Us to Potential Liquidity and Other Risks

Our Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to Declines in Estimated Fair Value of Specified Assets May
Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Expose Us to Counterparty Credit Risk

Some of our transactions
with financial and other institutions specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to pledge collateral related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the specified assets. In addition, under the terms of some of our
transactions, we may be required to make payments to our counterparties related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the specified assets. The amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make
under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances and will likely increase under Dodd-Frank, which could adversely affect our liquidity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Collateral Financing Arrangements,” “Business — U.S. Regulation — Dodd-Frank and Other Legislative and Regulatory
Developments” and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Gross Unrealized Losses on Fixed
Maturity and Equity Securities and Defaults, Downgrades or Other Events May Result in Future Impairments to the Carrying Value of Such Securities, Resulting in a Reduction in Our Net Income

Fixed maturity securities represent a significant portion of our investment portfolio. Fixed maturity and equity
securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from
net income. Our gross unrealized gains and gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale at December 31, 2011 were $26.1 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively. The portion of the $5.8 billion of gross
unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost or cost by 20% or more for six months or greater was $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011. The accumulated
change in estimated fair value of these available-for-sale securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be
other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken.







The Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken on Our Investments is Subjective and Could Materially Impact Our Results of Operations or Financial Position

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic
evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly and
reflect changes in allowances and impairments in net investment losses as such evaluations are revised. Additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Furthermore, historical trends may not be indicative of
future impairments or allowances.

For example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity securities is
adjusted for impairments deemed to be other-than-temporary. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value. The review of our fixed
maturity and equity securities for impairment includes an analysis of gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than
20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or
amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.







forecasted loss severity; consideration of the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular security; and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security; and
(ix) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

Defaults on Our Mortgage Loans and Volatility in Performance May Adversely Affect Our Profitability

Further,
any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly
diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Moreover, our
ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. In addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms
of mortgage loans could be enacted. We cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. See “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — Mortgage Loans.”

The Defaults
or Deteriorating Credit of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us







We Face Unforeseen Liabilities, Asset Impairments or Rating Actions Arising from
Acquisitions, Including ALICO, and Dispositions of Businesses or Difficulties Integrating and Managing Growth of Such Businesses

We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. Acquisition and disposition activity exposes us to a number of risks.

There could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with
the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future.

Furthermore, the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could
affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. We also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge
credit facilities. Moreover, as a result of uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain actions with respect to the ratings assigned to MetLife, Inc. and/or its
subsidiaries.

Our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will
depend in large part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. The
integration of operations and differences in operational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management’s attention from day-to-day business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the
operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected.

The success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of
issues, including the following:



•Loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our
ability to integrate it successfully.



•Customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the
acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the MetLife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition.







•If the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same
volume of business for us after the acquisition. Independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products.



•Integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible
differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former
parent of the acquired business or other service providers.



•In cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and
prospects of the joint venture. Our ability to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend on the continued cooperation between the joint venture participants and on the terms
of the joint venture agreements, which allocate control among the joint venture participants. We may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of these joint venture partners fail to meet their obligations under the joint venture,
encounter financial difficulty or elect to alter, modify or terminate the relationship.



•We may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. The costs and liabilities actually incurred in
connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated.

All of these challenges are present in our integration of ALICO, which we expect to extend over a substantial period.

The prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of
any acquired business successfully. For example, the life insurance markets in many of the international markets we entered through the Acquisition have experienced significant growth in recent years. Management of growth in these markets to date
has required significant management and operational resources and is likely to continue to do so. Future growth of our combined business will require, among other things, the continued development of adequate underwriting and claim handling
capabilities and skills, sufficient capital base, increased marketing and sales activities, and the hiring and training of new personnel.

There can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing future growth of any acquired business. In particular, there may be difficulties in hiring and training sufficient numbers of customer
service personnel and agents to keep pace with any future growth in the number of customers in our developing or developed markets. In addition, we may experience difficulties in upgrading, developing and expanding information technology systems
quickly enough to accommodate any future growth. If we are unable to manage future growth, our prospects may be materially and adversely affected.

There Can Be No Assurance That the Closing Agreement American Life Entered Into With the IRS Will Achieve Its Intended Effect, or That American Life Will Be Able to Comply with the Related Agreed
Upon Plan

On March 4, 2010, American Life entered into a closing agreement with the Commissioner
of the IRS with respect to a U.S. withholding tax issue arising from payments by foreign branches of a life insurance company incorporated under U.S. law. IRS Revenue Ruling 2004-75, effective January 1, 2005, requires foreign branches of U.S.
life insurance companies in certain circumstances to withhold U.S. income taxes on payments of taxable income made with respect to certain insurance and annuity products paid to customers resident in a foreign country. The closing agreement provides
transitional relief under Section 7805(b) of the Code to American Life, such that American Life’s foreign branches will not be required to withhold U.S. income tax on the income portion of payments made pursuant to American Life’s
life insurance and annuity contracts (“Covered Payments”) under IRS Revenue Ruling 2004-75 for any tax periods beginning on January 1, 2005 and ending on December 31, 2013 (the “Deferral Period”). In accordance with the
closing agreement, American Life submitted







The Settlement of
Common Equity Units Issued in Connection with the Acquisition Will Have a Dilutive Impact on MetLife, Inc.’s Stockholders

As part of the consideration paid to AM Holdings pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, MetLife, Inc. issued $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of common equity units, which initially
consist of (x) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock on each of three specified future settlement dates (expected to occur on October 10,
2012, September 11, 2013 and October 8, 2014, subject to deferral under certain circumstances) for a fixed amount per purchase contract (an aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) (the “Stock Purchase Contracts”)
and (y) an interest in each of three series of debt securities of MetLife, Inc. AM Holdings subsequently sold all of the common equity units in a public offering. The aggregate amount of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock issuable upon
settlement of the Stock Purchase Contracts is expected to be approximately 67.8 million to 84.7 million shares. As a result, more shares of common stock will be outstanding and each existing stockholder will own a smaller percentage of our
common stock then outstanding.

Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our
Profitability

We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates
against the U.S. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-U.S. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed
interest contracts and funding agreements. These risks relate to potential decreases in estimated fair value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of
foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations. Although we use foreign
currency derivatives to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties will perform their obligations. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk.”

From time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe
economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in certain emerging markets.

Historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with
investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange







rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our U.S. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. Although we
take certain actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuation. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”

We
face substantial exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the yen/ U.S. dollar exchange rate because we now have substantial operations in Japan and a significant portion of our premiums and investment income in Japan are received in yen.
Most claims and expenses associated with our operations in Japan are also paid in yen and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and other yen-denominated financial statement items are,
however, translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/U.S. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. Our Japan operation
does assume some currency exposure by backing a portion of surplus and yen denominated liabilities with U.S. dollar assets. Although this represents risk to our Japan operation, this activity reduces yen exposure at the enterprise level.

Due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues
(such as the Japanese yen) weakens, translating amounts expressed in that currency into U.S. dollars causes fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When the relevant foreign currency strengthens, translating such currency into U.S. dollars causes more
U.S. dollars to be reported. Any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The weakening of a foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar will generally adversely affect the
value of investments in U.S. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency.

As a Holding
Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and Pay Dividends

MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under
its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. If the cash MetLife, Inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its
debt service and other holding company obligations, MetLife, Inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets.

The payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife, Inc. by its U.S. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by
insurance laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to
MetLife, Inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency
considerations. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — MetLife,
Inc. — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Dividends from Subsidiaries.” The ability of MetLife Bank to pay dividends is also subject to regulation by the OCC. See also “— Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are
Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.”

Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to MetLife, Inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or
repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. See “Business — International Regulation” and
“— Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.”







A Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or Credit Ratings Could
Result in a Loss of Business and Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSRO”) publish as indicators of an insurance company’s ability to meet contractholder and
policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products and our competitive position.

Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including:



•reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products;



•adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries;



•materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;



•requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and



•adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all.

In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings
for MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access
certain types of liquidity. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including adversely limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing
the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the impact of a one-notch downgrade with respect to derivative transactions with credit rating
downgrade triggers. Also, at December 31, 2011, $188 million of liabilities associated with funding agreements and other capital market products were subject to credit ratings downgrade triggers that permit early termination subject to a notice
period of 90 days.

In view of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions as a result of the
global recession, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will continue to increase the frequency and scope
of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the NRSRO models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. Rating
agencies use an “outlook statement” of “positive,” “stable,” “negative” or “developing” to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a ratings
change. A rating may have a “stable” outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a “stable” rating does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice. Certain rating
agencies assign rating modifiers such as “CreditWatch” or “Under Review” to indicate their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating. These ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection with certain events
such as potential mergers and acquisitions, or material changes in a company’s results, in order for the rating agencies to perform their analyses to fully determine the rating implications of the event.

We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating
agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any NRSRO.

An Inability to Access Our Credit Facilities Could Result in a Reduction in Our Liquidity and Lead to Downgrades in Our Credit and
Financial Strength Ratings

In August 2011, we entered into a $3 billion unsecured five-year credit
agreement by amending and restating our October 2010 unsecured 364-day credit agreement, and reduced the outstanding commitment under our







October 2010 unsecured three-year credit facility to $1 billion. We also have other facilities which we enter into in the ordinary course of business. See “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Credit and Committed Facilities” and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

We rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. The availability
of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. The credit facilities contain certain
administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. We must comply with covenants under our credit facilities, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth.

Our right to borrow funds under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including
our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. Our failure to comply with the covenants
in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities,
would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Our Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively
Affect Our Business

Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to
record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources to develop and periodically update our risk management policies and procedures to reflect ongoing review of our risks and expect to continue
to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. Many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As
a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe
occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies
and procedures might have to be implemented under Regulation YY. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Financial Holding Company Regulation” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”

Reinsurance May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses

As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
business segments. See “Business — Reinsurance Activity.” While reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the
availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and
any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on
acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue.

If the Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification Arrangements or to the Derivative Instruments We Use to Hedge Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed to Risks We
Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations

We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders,
even when the reinsurer is







liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers and indemnitors. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or
that indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s or indemnitor’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of
reinsurance agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps
with a number of counterparties. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments.” If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative
instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. This is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

Differences Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and
Reserving Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial Results

Our earnings significantly depend
upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Our liabilities for future policy benefits and
claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including
estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investments we make with the premiums we
receive. We establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we
used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities.

Due to the nature of
the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. Such
amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used
to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. We charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally established for future benefit
payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Catastrophes May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and Reinsurance Availability

Our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a
function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes
may produce significant damage or loss of life in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal
quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to
these obligations, and the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries which
could hurt our business and the value of our investments. Our ability to write new business could also be affected. It is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of
insured property, could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future.







Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic
mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however the likelihood, timing, and severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted.
A significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on
the financial markets. In addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. The effectiveness of external parties, including
governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of
one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could
also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.

Our Auto & Home business has
experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the Auto & Home segment. Although Auto & Home makes
every effort to manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes,
hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. Historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to
homeowners coverages. However, catastrophes may also affect other Auto & Home coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising
global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes.

Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our homeowners coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern U.S. (including lower New York, Connecticut,
Rhode Island and Massachusetts), the Gulf Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas) and Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the New Madrid fault line in the central U.S. and in the Pacific Northwest.

Most of the jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require
life and property and casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed
insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired,
insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. In addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life and property and casualty insurance to their citizens. The activities of such organizations could also place
additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. Many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. Some states permit member insurers to recover
assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. See “Business — U.S. Regulation — Insurance Regulation — Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements” and “Business — International Regulation.”

While in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against MetLife, Inc.’s insurance
subsidiaries have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition
or results of operations in a particular period. We have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate, but additional liabilities may be necessary. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from
a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We cannot be certain that the







liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to
manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer’s ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a
catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be
available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. See “— Reinsurance May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses.”

Our Statutory Reserve Financings May Be Subject to Cost Increases and New Financings May Be Subject to Limited Market Capacity

To support statutory reserves for several products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term life and
universal life with secondary guarantees and MLIC’s closed block, we currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a portion of our statutory reserve requirements. While we have financing facilities in place for our previously
written business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to support writings through the end of 2011 or later, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of MetLife or are
subject to periodic repricing. Any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results.

Future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. If capacity becomes
unavailable for a prolonged period of time, hindering our ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted.

Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability

Our segments are subject to intense competition. We believe that this competition is based on a number of factors,
including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. We compete in the U.S. and internationally, with a large number of other insurance companies,
as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of
these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. National
banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. Many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a risk
that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability
to sell products in the future.

In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses
have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. See “Business — Competition.”

Finally, numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation. Legislative and other changes affecting the

regulatory environment can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the

broader financial services industry. See “Business — U.S. Regulation,” “Business — International Regulation,” “— Our Insurance, Brokerage and Banking Businesses Are
Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,” “— Governmental and Regulatory Actions for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and
Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position” and “— Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of
Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability.”









Industry Trends, Including the Consolidation of Distributors of Insurance Products,
Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our Businesses

Our segments continue to be influenced by
a variety of trends that affect the insurance industry, including competition with respect to product features, price, distribution capability, customer service and information technology. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends.” The insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. An increase in bank and
broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry’s sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance
products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. Consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements
to terms less favorable to us.

Our Valuation of Fixed Maturity, Equity and Trading and Other Securities and Short-Term
Investments May Include Methodologies, Estimations and Assumptions Which Are Subject to Differing Interpretations and Could Result in Changes to Investment Valuations That May Materially Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Financial
Condition

Fixed maturity, equity, and trading and other securities and short-term investments which
are reported at estimated fair value on the consolidated balance sheets represent the majority of our total cash and investments. We have categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the
respective valuation technique.

The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in
active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability’s classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level significant input to its
valuation. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the three input levels.

At December 31, 2011, 9.4%, 85.3% and 5.3% of these securities represented Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3, respectively. The Level 1 securities primarily consist of certain U.S. Treasury and agency
securities, foreign government securities, RMBS principally to-be-announced securities, exchange traded common stock, exchange traded registered mutual fund interests and short-term money market securities, including U.S. Treasury bills. The Level 2
assets include fixed maturity and equity securities priced principally through independent pricing services using observable inputs. These fixed maturity securities include most U.S. Treasury and agency securities, as well as the majority of U.S.
and foreign corporate securities, RMBS, foreign government securities, CMBS, state and political subdivision securities, foreign government securities, and ABS. Equity securities classified as Level 2 primarily consist of non-redeemable preferred
securities and certain equity securities where market quotes are available but are not considered actively traded and are priced by independent pricing services. We review the valuation methodologies used by the independent pricing services on an
ongoing basis and ensure







that any changes to valuation methodologies are justified. Level 3 assets include fixed maturity securities priced principally through independent non-binding broker quotations or market standard
valuation methodologies using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 consists of less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading activity or
where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation methodologies including: U.S. and foreign corporate securities — including below investment grade private placements; RMBS; CMBS; ABS and foreign government securities.
Equity securities classified as Level 3 securities consist principally of nonredeemable preferred stock and common stock of companies that are privately held or companies for which there has been very limited trading activity or where less price
transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation.

If Our Business Does Not Perform Well, We May Be Required to Recognize an Impairment of Our Goodwill or Other Long-Lived Assets or to Establish a Valuation Allowance Against the Deferred Income Tax
Asset, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Financial Condition

Goodwill is the
excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired which represents the future economic benefits arising from such net assets acquired that could not be individually identified. As of December 31, 2011, our goodwill was $11.9
billion. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that the implied fair value of the reporting unit is less
than the carrying value of that reporting unit. We perform our annual goodwill impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based upon data as of the close of the second quarter. Goodwill associated with a business acquisition is not
tested for impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there is a significant identified impairment event. Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the
“reporting unit” level. A reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level.

The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business. The performance of our
businesses may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such writedowns
could have an adverse effect on our results of operation or financial







position. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Goodwill” and Note 7 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate,
also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group through future operations of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the
estimated fair value of those assets. Such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.

Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they
are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax
asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position.

If Our Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC, Deferred Sales
Inducements (“DSI”) and VOBA Vary Significantly, We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization and/or Impair the DAC, DSI and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Financial Condition

We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary with and
relate to the production of new and renewal insurance business are deferred as DAC. Bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are referred to as
DSI. The recovery of DAC and DSI is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality,
morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, we anticipate
that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into management’s estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs.

If the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in
the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of DAC and DSI related to variable annuity and variable universal life
contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.







of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired” and Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further consideration of DAC and VOBA.

Changes in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board or Other Standard-Setting Bodies May Adversely Affect Our Financial Statements

Changes in Our
Discount Rate, Expected Rate of Return and Expected Compensation Increase Assumptions for Our Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans May Result in Increased Expenses and Reduce Our Profitability

We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan
experience. These assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. Changes in these assumptions may result in
increased expenses and reduce our profitability. See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs.

Guarantees Within Certain of Our Products that Protect Policyholders Against Significant Downturns in Equity Markets May Decrease
Our Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results if Hedging or Risk Management Strategies Prove Ineffective, Result in Higher Risk Management Costs and Expose Us to Increased Counterparty Risk







The valuation of certain of the foregoing liabilities (carried at fair
value) includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit standing of the issuing entity. This adjustment, which is not hedged, is based in part on publicly available information regarding credit spreads related to MetLife,
Inc.’s debt, including credit default swaps. In periods of extreme market volatility, movements in these credit spreads can have a significant impact on net income.

Contractual Features Within Certain of Our Life and Annuity Products May Increase Our Exposure to Foreign Exchange Risk, and Decrease Our Earnings

Certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange risk. Payments under these contracts, depending
on the circumstances, may be required to be made in different currencies and may not be the legal tender in the country whose law governs the particular product. Changes in exchange rate movements and the imposition of capital controls may also
directly impact the liability valuation that may not be entirely hedged. If the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens, the liability valuation may increase, which may result in a reduction of net income.

We May Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed Block
Policies

MLIC’s plan of reorganization, as amended (the “Plan”), required that we
establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of MLIC are met. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. We allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support
obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if
the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. We cannot provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the
anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block will be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose,
for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds.

The closed
block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are
greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be
available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders.

Litigation and Regulatory Investigations Are
Increasingly Common in Our Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and/or Harm to Our Reputation

We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our pending legal and
regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs’ lawyers may bring or are bringing class
actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other
duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. Modern pleading practice in the U.S. permits considerable variation in the assertion
of money damages or other relief. This variability in pleadings, together







with our actual experience in litigating or resolving through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of time, demonstrates to management that the monetary relief which may be
specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to its merits or disposition value. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. Uncertainties can
include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion
practice, or at trial or on appeal. Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law.

The Company establishes liabilities for litigation and regulatory loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has
been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been established for a number of matters noted in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. It is possible that some of the matters could
require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated at December 31, 2011.

Over the past several years, we have faced numerous claims, including class action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other
products.

The ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to
years further in the future. In our judgment, there is a future point after which losses cease to be probable and reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims may be materially greater than the asbestos
liability currently accrued and that future charges to income may be necessary. The potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded.

We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record
examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations,
including our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees. Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry.







We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition or results of operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to
further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. The number of countries in which we currently operate has greatly expanded as a result of the Acquisition and, consequently, we may be subject to additional
investigations and lawsuits in such jurisdictions. Increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings in any of the countries where we operate could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations
that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We May Not be Able to Protect
Our Intellectual Property and May be Subject to Infringement Claims

We rely on a combination of
contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our
intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. This would represent a diversion of resources that may be
significant and our efforts may not prove successful. The inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete.

We may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach
of copyright, trademark or license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or
misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes,
copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on
our business and results of operations.







Legislative and Regulatory Activity in Health Care and Other Employee Benefits Could
Increase the Costs or Administrative Burdens of Providing Benefits to Our Employees or Hinder or Prevent Us From Attracting and Retaining Employees, or Affect our Profitability As a Provider of Life Insurance, Annuities, and Non-Medical Health
Insurance Benefit Products

The impact of the Health Care Act on us
as an employer and on the benefit plans we sponsor for employees or retirees and their dependents, whether those benefits remain competitive or effective in meeting their business objectives, and our costs to provide such benefits and our tax
liabilities in connection with benefits or compensation, cannot be predicted. Furthermore, we cannot predict the impact of choices that will be made by various regulators, including the U.S. Treasury, the IRS, the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, and state regulators, to promulgate regulations or guidance, or to make determinations under or related to the Health Care Act. Either the Health Care Act or any of these regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract,
retain, and motivate talented associates. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in
the Health Care Act and our competitors are not.

The Health Care Act also imposes requirements on us as a
provider of non-medical health insurance benefit products, subject to various effective dates. It also imposes requirements on the purchasers of certain of these products and has implications for certain other MLIC products, such as annuities. We
cannot predict the impact of the Act or of regulations, guidance or determinations made by various regulators, on the various products that we offer. Either the Health Care Act or any of these regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to
offer certain of these products in the same manner as we do today. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm our competitive position if the Health Care Act has a disparate impact on our
products compared to products offered by our competitors.

Litigation in U.S. federal courts has challenged
whether the Health Care Act, or parts of it, are valid and consistent with the U.S. constitution. Some of the recent court decisions on these issues have held that the Health Care Act is unconstitutional, in whole or in part, and it is expected that
the U.S. Supreme Court will decide these issues in 2012. If the Health Care Act is ruled unconstitutional, the resulting disruption to the system of regulation of health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation in the U.S., and
uncertainty regarding the future course of that system of regulation, may have impacts, some of them potentially negative, on the way that we provide health care benefits, other benefits and other forms of compensation to employees, and on our
ability to do so in an efficient manner, which could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain, and motivate talented associates and could also result in increased or unpredictable costs. Such a ruling, and the uncertainty it creates, could
also result in negative effects on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefit products, affecting our ability to offer certain products in the same manner as we do today or resulting in increased or unpredictable costs to provide
certain products.







The Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension
Relief Act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. These provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to
partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. As part of our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often
in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. Consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of
operations.

Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations
Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability

Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also “securities,”
including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive
regulation under these securities laws. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment companies under the Investment Company Act.
Each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the Investment Company Act. In addition, the variable annuity contracts
and variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act. Other subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Exchange Act, and are members of and subject to
regulation by FINRA. Further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets
and to protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or
restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. A number of changes have recently been suggested to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our
distributors that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, Dodd-Frank authorizes the SEC to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized
investment advice to retail and other customers. This standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. Further, proposals have
been made that the SEC establish a self-regulatory organization with respect to registered investment advisers, which could increase the level of regulatory oversight over such investment advisers.

In addition, state insurance regulators are becoming more active in adopting and enforcing suitability standards with
respect to sales of annuities, both fixed and variable. In particular, the NAIC has adopted a revised Suitability in Annuity Transactions Model Regulation (“SAT”) that will, if enacted by the states, place new responsibilities upon issuing
insurance companies with respect to the suitability of annuity sales, including responsibilities for training agents. Several states have already enacted laws based on the SAT.

We also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct
other activities similar to those described above. See “Business — International Regulation.”

Changes in
Tax Laws, Tax Regulations, or Interpretations of Such Laws or Regulations Could Increase Our Corporate Taxes; Changes in Tax Laws Could Make Some of Our Products Less Attractive to Consumers

Changes in tax laws, Treasury and other regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or
regulations could increase our corporate taxes. The Obama Administration has proposed corporate tax changes. Changes in corporate tax rates could affect the value of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Furthermore, the value of
deferred tax assets could be impacted by future earnings levels.







Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to
consumers. A shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we earn investment income. The Obama Administration has proposed
certain changes to individual income tax rates and rules applicable to certain policies.

We cannot predict
whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.

Changes to Regulations Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
Could Adversely Affect Our Distribution Model by Restricting Our Ability to Provide Customers With Advice

The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual Retirement Accounts
(“IRAs”) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. In October 2011, the DOL issued final regulations
which provide limited relief from these investment advice restrictions. If no additional relief is provided regarding these investment advice restrictions, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide
investment advice to ERISA plans and participants, and with respect to IRAs, would likely be significantly restricted. Also, the fee and revenue arrangements of certain advisory programs may be required to be revenue neutral, resulting in potential
lost revenues for these broker-dealers and their affiliates.

Other proposed investment advice regulatory
initiatives under ERISA also may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers. In particular, the DOL issued a proposed regulation in October 2010 that would, if adopted as proposed, significantly broaden the circumstances
under which a person or entity providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans or IRAs would be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code. If adopted, the proposed regulations may make it easier for the DOL in enforcement
actions, and for plaintiffs’ attorneys in ERISA litigation, to attempt to extend fiduciary status to advisors who would not be deemed fiduciaries under current regulations. In September 2011, the DOL announced it will re-propose these fiduciary
definition regulations, and a new proposal is expected in 2012.

In addition, the DOL has issued a number of
regulations recently that increase the level of disclosure that must be provided to plan sponsors and participants. The participant disclosure regulations were issued in final form in October 2010 and become effective in 2012, and the regulations
which require service providers to disclose fee and other information to plan sponsors take effect in 2012. These ERISA disclosure requirements will likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs.

We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our Products

We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products.
Strong competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. In addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers.

We compete with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support
services and compensation and product features. We continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot provide assurance that
these initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are
unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. See “Business — Competition.”







MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of Stockholder Votes
on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions of the MetLife Policyholder Trust

Under the Plan, we
established the MetLife Policyholder Trust (the “Trust”) to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. As of February 21, 2012, the Trust held
211,500,239 shares, or 19.9%, of the outstanding shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock. Because of the number of shares held in the Trust and the voting provisions of the Trust, the Trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder
vote. Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the recommendations given by MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
to its stockholders or, if the Board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the Board. As a result of the voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders,
excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock.

If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in proportion to the
instructions it receives. These actions include:



•an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of
MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors or a vote on a stockholder’s proposal to oppose a Board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain
conditions;



•a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of MetLife,
Inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable Delaware law;



•any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities or other property;
and



•any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors to amend or redeem the rights under MetLife, Inc.’s stockholder rights plan,
other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under Delaware law. MetLife, Inc. does not currently have a
stockholder rights plan.

If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the
trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by Trust beneficiaries.

The MetLife Policyholder Trust Agreement provides that we may terminate the Trust once the percentage of outstanding
shares held in the Trust falls to 25%. We must terminate the Trust 90 days after we provide the trustee with notice that the percentage of outstanding shares held in the Trust is 10% or less. In connection with any termination of the Trust, all of
the shares of common stock then held in the Trust will need to be distributed to the respective Trust beneficiaries, unless we offer to purchase all or a portion of such Trust shares. In connection with such a distribution, we may incur costs
related to an increase in the number of shareholders, which may include increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses.

State Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and Our By-Laws May Delay, Deter or Prevent Takeovers and Business
Combinations that Stockholders Might Consider in Their Best Interests

State laws and our certificate
of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of
MetLife, Inc.’s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock if they
are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.







In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may affect the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers,
consolidations or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an “interested stockholder.” An “interested stockholder” is defined to include persons owning,
directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation.

MetLife, Inc.’s
certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for
MetLife, Inc.’s common stock and include: a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at
stockholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.

The Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May Adversely Affect the Level of Claim Losses We Incur and the Value of Our Investment Portfolio

The Occurrence of Events Unanticipated in Our Disaster Recovery
Systems and Management Continuity Planning, as well as a Failure in Cyber- or Other Information Security Systems, Could Result in a Loss or Disclosure of Confidential Information, Damage Our Reputation and Could Impair Our Ability to Conduct
Business Effectively

In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, an
industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack, a cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery







systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based
data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. In addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business
could be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers’ ability to provide goods and services and our employees’ ability to perform their job responsibilities.

We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable service. Despite our implementation of a variety of security
measures, our computer systems could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, cyberattacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering, including threats that may come from external factors, such as governments, organized crime,
hackers and third parties to whom we outsource certain functions, or may originate internally from within the Company.

If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and
networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, as well as our customers’ or other third parties’, operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory
penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss. Although we take steps to prevent and detect such attacks, it is possible that we may not become aware of a cyber incident for some time after it occurs, which could increase our exposure to these
consequences.

Our Associates May Take Excessive Risks Which Could Negatively Affect Our Financial Condition and
Business

As an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of being paid to accept certain risks.
The associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that
involve exposing us to risk. These include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue,
and other decisions. Although we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of
our compensation programs and practices. Similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates’ business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, there can be no assurance that these controls and
procedures are or may be effective. If our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or business operations.

