
10-K405
DELTA AIR LINES, INC.




                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

[X]           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1999

                                       OR

[ ]          TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                          Commission file number 1-5424


                              DELTA AIR LINES, INC.
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                Delaware                                      58-0218548
     -------------------------------                     ------------------
     (State or other jurisdiction of                       (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)                       Identification No.)

Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport
       Post Office Box 20706
          Atlanta, Georgia                                     30320
- ----------------------------------------                    ----------
(Address of principal executive offices)                    (Zip code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   (404) 715-2600

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None






       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]  No[ ]

       Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

       The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity
held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of August 31, 1999, was
approximately $7,038,312,000. As of August 31, 1999, 138,756,756 shares of the
registrant's common stock were outstanding.

                       Documents Incorporated By Reference

       Parts I and II of this Form 10-K incorporate by reference certain
information from the registrant's 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners. Part III of
this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from the
registrant's definitive Proxy Statement dated September 24, 1999, for its Annual
Meeting of Shareowners to be held on October 28, 1999.






                              DELTA AIR LINES, INC.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General Description

        Delta Air Lines, Inc. ("Delta" or the "Company") is a major air carrier
that provides scheduled air transportation for passengers, freight and mail
throughout the United States and around the world. Based on calendar 1998 data,
Delta is the largest United States airline in terms of aircraft departures and
passengers enplaned, and the third largest United States airline as measured by
operating revenues and revenue passenger miles flown. As of August 1, 1999,
Delta (including its wholly owned subsidiary, Atlantic Southeast Airlines, Inc.)
served 184 domestic cities in 44 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico
and the United States Virgin Islands, as well as 42 cities in 29 foreign
countries.

        An important characteristic of Delta's domestic route system is its four
hub airports in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Dallas-Fort Worth and Salt Lake City. Each
of these hub operations includes Delta flights that gather and distribute
traffic from markets in the geographic region surrounding the hub to other major
cities and to other Delta hubs. These hubs also provide connecting passengers
with access to Delta's international gateway at New York's Kennedy Airport and
its Pacific gateway in Portland, Oregon.

        Delta conducts operations in various foreign countries. Operating
revenues from the Company's international operations were approximately $2.64
billion, $2.64 billion and $2.57 billion in the years ended June 30, 1999, 1998
and 1997, respectively.

        For the year ended June 30, 1999, passenger revenues accounted for 91%
of Delta's operating revenues. Cargo revenues, which include freight and mail,
accounted for 4% of Delta's operating revenues, and other sources accounted for
5% of the Company's operating revenues.

        Delta's operating results for any interim period are not necessarily
indicative of operating results for an entire year because of seasonal
variations in the demand for air travel. In general, demand for air travel is
higher in the June and September quarters, particularly in international
markets, because there is more vacation travel during these periods than during
the remainder of the year. Demand for air travel is also affected by factors
such as economic conditions and fare levels.

        Delta is managed as a single business unit. For additional information
on this subject, see Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 54 of Delta's 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners.




        Delta is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. Its
principal executive offices are located at Hartsfield Atlanta International
Airport, Atlanta, Georgia 30320, and its telephone number is (404) 715-2600.

Regulatory Environment

        While the United States Department of Transportation (the "DOT") and the
Federal Aviation Administration (the "FAA") exercise regulatory authority over
air carriers under the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (the "Act"),
most domestic economic regulation of passenger and freight services was
eliminated pursuant to the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 and other statutes
amending the Act. The DOT has jurisdiction over international tariffs and
pricing; international routes; computer reservations systems; disabled passenger
transportation; and certain economic and consumer protection matters such as
advertising, denied boarding compensation, baggage liability and smoking aboard
aircraft. The FAA regulates flying operations generally, including control of
navigable air space, flight personnel, aircraft certification and maintenance,
and other matters affecting air safety. The United States Department of Justice
has jurisdiction over airline competition matters, including mergers and
acquisitions.

        Any air carrier which the DOT finds "fit" to operate is given
unrestricted authority to operate domestic air transportation (including the
carriage of passengers and cargo). Authority to operate international routes
continues to be regulated by the DOT and by the foreign governments involved.
International route awards are also subject to the approval of the President of
the United States for conformance with national defense and foreign policy
objectives.

        The economic deregulation of the industry permits unfettered competition
with respect to domestic routes, services, fares and rates, and Delta faces
significant competition on its routes. Except for constraints imposed by the
Act's Essential Air Service provisions, which are applicable to certain small
communities, airlines may terminate service to a city without restriction.

        On April 6, 1998, the DOT published a proposed statement of enforcement
policy to address DOT concerns that major carriers are taking actions designed
to exclude new carriers in certain airline markets, particularly at hub
airports. Information on this subject is set forth under "Governmental Matters"
on page 33 of Delta's 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated
herein by reference.

        The FAA has implemented a number of requirements which are incorporated
into Delta's maintenance programs. These matters relate to, among other things,
inspection and maintenance of aging aircraft, and corrosion control.

        Delta is also subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign
laws and regulations. The United States Postal Service has authority over
certain aspects of the transportation of mail, and rates for the carriage of
domestic mail are determined through




negotiations or competitive bidding. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended,
governs Delta's use and operation of radio facilities. Labor relations in the
airline industry are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act. Environmental
matters (including noise pollution) are regulated by various federal, state and
local governmental entities.

Fares and Rates

        Airlines are permitted to set domestic ticket prices without
governmental regulation, and the industry is characterized by substantial price
competition. International fares and rates are subject to the jurisdiction of
the DOT and governments of the foreign countries involved. Most international
markets are characterized by significant price competition and substantial
commissions, overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers.

        Delta's system passenger mile yield remained virtually flat in fiscal
1999 compared to fiscal 1998. The Company's domestic passenger mile yield
increased 1% due to the full-year effect of a domestic fare increase implemented
in September 1997 and improved asset utilization, partially offset by increased
low-fare competition and matching sale fares implemented by a competitor after
its pilot strike. Delta's international passenger mile yield decreased 6% as a
result of increased competitive pressures due to industry-wide capacity growth
in the Atlantic and Latin American markets.

        Delta expects that low-fare competition will continue in domestic and
international markets. If price reductions are not offset by increases in
traffic or changes in the mix of traffic that improve the passenger mile yield,
Delta's operating results will be adversely affected.

Competition and Route Authority

        All domestic routes served by Delta are subject to competition from both
new and existing carriers, and service over virtually all of Delta's domestic
routes is highly competitive. On most of its principal domestic routes, the
Company competes with at least one, and usually more than one, major airline.
Delta also competes with regional and national carriers, all-cargo carriers,
charter airlines and, particularly on its shorter routes, with surface
transportation. Service over most of Delta's international routes is also highly
competitive.

        Certain major United States airlines have established marketing
alliances with each other. These include the alliances between Continental
Airlines, Inc. and Northwest Airlines, Inc., and between American Airlines, Inc.
and US Airways, Inc. Delta and United Air Lines, Inc. began reciprocal frequent
flyer program participation on September 1, 1998 (see "Frequent Flyer Program"
on pages 9-10 of this Form 10-K for additional information on this subject), but
have discontinued discussions to establish code-sharing arrangements between the
two airlines.




        International alliances between domestic and foreign carriers, such as
the marketing and code-sharing arrangements between Northwest Airlines, Inc. and
KLM-Royal Dutch Airlines, and among United Air Lines, Inc., Lufthansa German
Airlines, Scandinavian Airline Systems and certain other foreign airlines, have
significantly increased competition in international markets. Through
code-sharing arrangements with United States carriers, foreign carriers have
obtained access to interior United States passenger traffic. Similarly, United
States carriers have increased their ability to sell international
transportation such as transatlantic services to and beyond European cities.

        On June 22, 1999, Delta and Air France entered into a long-term
marketing agreement which will include code-sharing arrangements, reciprocal
frequent flyer programs and coordinated cargo operations. Aeromexico recently
announced that it will join this alliance, which will compete with other
international alliances.

        Delta's flight operations are authorized by certificates of public
convenience and necessity and, to a limited extent, by exemptions issued by the
DOT. The requisite approvals of other governments for international operations
are provided by bilateral agreements with, or permits issued by, foreign
countries. Because international air transportation is governed by bilateral or
other agreements between the United States and the foreign country or countries
involved, changes in United States or foreign government aviation policies could
result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value
of Delta's international route authorities or otherwise affect Delta's
international operations. Bilateral agreements between the United States and
various foreign countries served by Delta are subject to renegotiation from time
to time.

        Certain of Delta's international route authorities are subject to
periodic renewal requirements. Delta requests extension of these authorities
when and as appropriate. While the DOT usually renews temporary authorities on
routes where the authorized carrier is providing a reasonable level of service,
there is no assurance of this result. Dormant authority may not be renewed in
some cases, especially where another United States carrier indicates a
willingness to provide service.

Code-Sharing

        Delta has entered into marketing agreements with certain foreign
carriers to maintain or improve Delta's access to international markets. Under
these code-sharing arrangements, Delta and the foreign carriers publish their
respective airline designator codes on a single flight operation, thereby
allowing Delta and the foreign carrier to provide joint service with one
aircraft rather than operating separate services with two aircraft.

        Many of Delta's international code-sharing arrangements operate in
discrete international city pairs. Delta purchases seats that are marketed under
Delta's "DL" designator code and sells seats that are marketed under the foreign
carrier's two-letter designator code pursuant to these code-sharing
arrangements.




Airport Access

        Operations at four major United States and certain foreign airports
served by Delta are regulated by governmental entities through "slot"
allocations. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from
the particular airport during a specified time period. In the United States, the
FAA regulates slot allocations at Kennedy Airport in New York, La Guardia
Airport in New York, Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington, D. C., and
O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. Delta's operations at those four
airports generally require slot allocations. Certain foreign airports also have
slot allocations.

        Delta currently has sufficient slot authorizations to operate its
existing flights, and has generally been able to obtain slots to expand its
operations and to change its schedules. There is no assurance, however, that
Delta will be able to obtain slots for these purposes in the future because,
among other reasons, slot allocations are subject to changes in governmental
policies.

Delta Express

        Delta Express is the Company's low-fare, leisure-oriented operation
which provides service from certain cities in the Northeast and Midwest to
Orlando and four other Florida destinations. On October 1, 1996, Delta Express
initiated service, operating a fleet of 12 737-200 aircraft with 62 daily
departures to 13 cities. Since that time, Delta Express has expanded its
operations and currently operates a fleet of 37 737-200 aircraft with 168
daily flights to 22 cities.

Delta Shuttle

        The Delta Shuttle is the Company's high-frequency specialty product
providing service targeted to the Northeast business traveler. It provides
hourly service between New York's LaGuardia Marine Terminal and each of
Washington, D.C.'s Ronald Reagan National Airport and Boston's Logan
International Airport. Effective June 1, 1999, the Delta Shuttle began nonstop
service between Boston and Washington, D.C.

The Delta Connection Program

        During fiscal 1999, Delta acquired ASA Holdings, Inc., the parent of
Atlantic Southeast Airlines, Inc. ("ASA"). As a result of this acquisition, ASA
became a wholly owned subsidiary of Delta. ASA operates in the Southeast through
Atlanta and in the Southwest through Dallas-Fort Worth. It uses Delta's "DL"
code on its flights and exchanges connecting traffic with Delta.

        Delta has marketing agreements with four other regional carriers that
use Delta's "DL" code on some or all of their flights, and also exchange
connecting traffic with Delta. These carriers are Business Express, Inc.,
Comair, Inc. ("Comair"), SkyWest Airlines, Inc. ("SkyWest") and Trans States
Airlines. At June 30, 1999, Delta held equity interests in



Comair Holdings, Inc. (the parent of Comair) and SkyWest, Inc. (the parent of
SkyWest) of 22% and 13%, respectively.

        In September 1999, Delta entered into an agreement with Atlantic Coast
Airlines Holdings, Inc. ("ACA") under which a new business unit of ACA will
operate regional jet aircraft as a Delta Connection carrier.

Computer Reservation System Partnership

        Delta owns 40% of WORLDSPAN, L.P. ("WORLDSPAN"), a Delaware limited
partnership which operates and markets a computer reservation system ("CRS") and
related systems for the travel industry. Northwest Airlines, Inc., and Trans
World Airlines, Inc. own 34% and 26%, respectively, of WORLDSPAN.

        CRS services are used primarily by travel agents to book airline, hotel,
car rental and other travel reservations and issue airline tickets. CRS services
are provided by several companies in the United States and worldwide. In the
United States, other CRS competitors are SABRE (owned primarily by AMR
Corporation), Galileo International, Inc. (owned by United Air Lines, Inc., US
Airways, Inc. and certain foreign carriers) and AMADEUS (owned by Continental
Airlines, Inc., and certain foreign carriers). CRS vendors are subject to
regulations promulgated by the DOT and certain foreign governments.

        The CRS industry is highly competitive. Delta believes that, based on
the number of travel agents in the United States using a CRS, WORLDSPAN ranks
third, behind SABRE and Galileo International, Inc. in market share among travel
agents in the United States.

Fuel

        Delta's results of operations could be significantly impacted by changes
in the price and availability of jet fuel. The following table shows Delta's jet
fuel consumption and costs for fiscal years 1995-1999.



- -------------
* Excludes restructuring and other non-recurring charges.




        Aircraft fuel expense decreased 10% in fiscal 1999 compared to fiscal
1998, with the average fuel price per gallon falling 12% to 49.83(cents). Total
gallons consumed increased 2% due to increased operations on a 3% rise in
capacity.

        Changes in jet fuel prices have industry-wide impact and benefit or harm
Delta's competitors as well as Delta. Accordingly, lower jet fuel prices may be
offset by increased price competition and lower revenues for all air carriers.
Moreover, there can be no assurance that Delta will be able to increase its
fares in response to any future increases in fuel prices.

        Delta's jet fuel purchase contracts do not provide material protection
against price increases or for assured availability of supplies. The Company
purchases most of its jet fuel from petroleum refiners under contracts which
establish the price based on various market indices. The Company also purchases
aircraft fuel on the spot market, from off-shore sources and under contracts
which permit the refiners to set the price and give the Company the right to
terminate upon short notice if the price is unacceptable.

        Delta uses options and other non-leveraged, over-the-counter instruments
to manage the risk associated with changes in aircraft fuel prices. Information
regarding Delta's fuel hedging program is set forth in Note 4 of the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 45 of Delta's 1999 Annual Report
to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference.

        Although Delta is currently able to obtain adequate supplies of jet
fuel, it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of jet fuel.
Political disruptions in oil producing countries, changes in government policy
concerning aircraft fuel production, transportation or marketing, changes in
aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other
unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages and fuel price
increases in the future. Such shortages and price increases could have a
material adverse effect on Delta's business.

Personnel

        Delta's average number of full-time equivalent employees increased to
74,000 (including 2,500 ASA full-time equivalent personnel) for fiscal 1999
compared to 67,400 for fiscal 1998. Information concerning Delta's personnel is
set forth under "Personnel Matters" on pages 31-33 of Delta's 1999 Annual Report
to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference.

        Delta's relations with labor unions in the United States are governed by
the Railway Labor Act. Under the Railway Labor Act, a labor union seeking to
represent a craft or class of employees is required to file with the National
Mediation Board ("NMB") an application alleging a representation dispute, along
with representation cards signed by at least 35% of the employees in that craft
or class. The NMB then investigates the dispute and, if it finds the labor union
has obtained a sufficient number of representation cards, will conduct an





election to determine whether to certify the labor union as the collective
bargaining representative of that craft or class.

        On September 23, 1999, Delta announced that the Company and the
Negotiating Committee of the Delta Air Line Pilots Association ("ALPA") reached
a tentative agreement which, among other things, sets pilot pay rates and work
rules for 777 and 767-400 aircraft. The tentative agreement is subject to the
approval of the Delta ALPA Master Executive Council ("MEC") and, if approved by
the MEC, ratification by Delta pilots. The outcome of these matters cannot
presently be determined.

        The preceding paragraph supplements the information under "777-200
Negotiations" and "767-400 Negotiations" on pages 32-33 of Delta's 1999 Annual
Report to Shareowners.

Environmental Matters

        The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (the "ANCA") requires the
phase-out of Stage 2 aircraft by December 31, 1999, subject to certain
exceptions. In 1991, the FAA issued regulations which implement the ANCA by
requiring air carriers to reduce (by modification or retirement) the number of
Stage 2 aircraft operated by 25% by December 31, 1994, 50% by December 31, 1996,
75% by December 31, 1998, and 100% by December 31, 1999. Alternatively, a
carrier may satisfy the regulations by operating a fleet that is at least 55%,
65%, 75% and 100% Stage 3 by the respective dates set forth in the preceding
sentence.

        Delta complied with the ANCA's December 31, 1994, 1996 and 1998
requirements. As of August 31, 1999, Delta operated 547 Stage 3 aircraft,
constituting 94% of its fleet. The Company expects to comply with the ANCA's
December 31, 1999 requirement by hushkitting or retiring its 36 remaining Stage
2 aircraft: 28 727-200 aircraft and 8 737-200 aircraft. ASA is in compliance
with the December 31, 1999 Stage 3 deadline.

        The ANCA recognizes the rights of operators of airports with noise
problems to implement local noise abatement procedures so long as such
procedures do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or
the national air transportation system. It generally provides that local noise
restrictions on Stage 3 aircraft first effective after October 1, 1990, require
FAA approval, and establishes a regulatory notice and review process for local
restrictions on Stage 2 aircraft first proposed after October 1, 1990. While
Delta has had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise
restrictions in the past, the Company's operations could be adversely impacted
if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.

        The United States Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") is
authorized to regulate aircraft emissions. The engines on Delta's and ASA's
aircraft comply with the applicable EPA standards.





        In February 1998, the EPA and the FAA signed a Memorandum of Agreement
("MOA") to develop a voluntary process with the airline industry to reduce
emissions that lead to ozone formation. The MOA includes a proposal with a
voluntary engine retrofit program to reduce emissions from aircraft engines. As
a result of the MOA, air carriers, the EPA, the FAA and local and state
regulators have had discussions regarding the scope and content of a voluntary
emissions reductions program, but no agreement has been reached.

         Delta has been identified by the EPA as a potentially responsible party
(a "PRP") with respect to certain Superfund Sites, and has entered into consent
decrees regarding some of these sites. Delta's alleged disposal volume at each
of these sites is small when compared to the total contributions of all PRPs at
each site. Delta is aware of soil and/or ground water contamination present on
its current or former leaseholds at several domestic airports; to address this
contamination, the Company has a program in place to investigate and, if
appropriate, remediate these sites. Management believes that the resolution of
these matters is not likely to have a material adverse effect on Delta's
consolidated financial statements.

Frequent Flyer Program

         Delta, like other major airlines, has established a frequent flyer
program offering incentives to maximize travel on Delta. This program allows
participants to accrue mileage for travel awards while flying on Delta, the
Delta Connection carriers and participating airlines. Mileage credit may also be
accrued for the use of certain services offered by program partners such as
hotels, car rental agencies and credit card companies. Delta reserves the right
to terminate the program with six months advance notice, and to change the
program's terms and conditions at any time without notice.

         Mileage credits earned can be redeemed for free or upgraded air travel
on Delta and participating airline partners, for membership in Delta's Crown
Room Club and for other program partner awards. Travel awards are subject to
certain transfer restrictions and, in most cases, blackout dates and capacity
controlled seating. Miles earned prior to May 1, 1995 do not expire so long as
Delta has a frequent flyer program. Miles earned on or after May 1, 1995 will
not expire as long as, at least once every three years, the participant (1)
takes a qualifying flight on Delta or a Delta Connection carrier; (2) earns
miles through one of Delta's program partners; or (3) redeems miles for any
program award.

         On September 1, 1998, Delta and United Air Lines, Inc. ("United")
introduced a reciprocal frequent flyer program. Each carrier's frequent flyer
members may (1) accrue miles in either carrier's program when they fly on Delta
or United operated domestic flights; and (2) effective October 15, 1998, redeem
frequent flyer awards on domestic flights operated by either carrier.

         Delta accounts for its frequent flyer program obligations by recording
a liability for the estimated incremental cost of flight awards the Company
expects to be redeemed. The estimated incremental cost associated with a flight
award does not include any contribution to overhead or profit. Such incremental
cost is based on Delta's system average cost per




passenger for fuel, food and other direct passenger costs. Delta does not record
a liability for mileage earned by participants who have not reached the level to
become eligible for a free travel award. Delta believes this exclusion is
immaterial and appropriate because the large majority of these participants are
not expected to earn a free flight award. Delta does not record a liability for
the expected redemption of miles for non-travel awards since the cost of these
awards to Delta is negligible.

        Delta estimated the potential number of round-trip flight awards
outstanding to be 9.1 million at June 30, 1997, 9.6 million at June 30, 1998 and
10.6 million at June 30, 1999. Of these earned awards, Delta expected that
approximately 6.0 million, 7.2 million and 8.0 million, respectively, would be
redeemed. At June 30, 1997, 1998 and 1999, Delta had recorded a liability for
these awards of $122 million, $140 million and $172 million, respectively. The
difference between the round-trip awards outstanding and the awards expected to
be redeemed is the estimate, based on historical data, of awards which will (1)
never be redeemed; or (2) be redeemed for something other than a free trip.

        Frequent flyer program participants flew 1.7 million, 1.9 million and
2.0 million free round-trips on Delta in fiscal years 1997, 1998 and 1999,
respectively. These round-trips accounted for approximately 6%, 7% and 7% of the
total passenger miles flown for the respective periods. Delta believes that the
low percentage of free passenger miles and the restrictions applied to free
travel awards minimize the displacement of revenue passengers.

        The DOT is conducting a review of the frequent flyer programs of the
larger U.S. airlines. The focus of the review relates to limitations placed by
the carriers on the availability of award seats and the adequacy of consumer
notices concerning such limitations. The outcome of this matter cannot presently
be determined.

Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program

        Delta is a participant in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program pursuant
to which the Company has agreed to make available, during the period beginning
October 1, 1999 and ending September 30, 2000, up to 75 of its international
range aircraft for use by the United States military under certain stages of
readiness related to national emergencies.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Flight Equipment

        Information relating to Delta's and ASA's aircraft fleet is set forth on
page 18, in the charts titled "Aircraft Fleet at June 30, 1999" and "Aircraft
Delivery Schedules at June 30, 1999" on page 21, under "Personnel Matters" on
pages 31-33, and in Notes 6 and 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements on pages 48-49, of Delta's 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners, and is
incorporated herein by reference.





Ground Facilities

        Delta leases most of the land and buildings that it occupies. The
Company's largest aircraft maintenance base, various computer, cargo, flight
kitchen and training facilities and most of its principal offices are located at
or near Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta, Georgia, on land
leased from the City of Atlanta under long-term leases. Delta owns a portion of
its principal offices, its Atlanta reservations center and other improved and
unimproved real property in Atlanta, as well as a limited number of radio
transmitting and receiving sites and certain other facilities.

         The City of Atlanta, with the support of Delta and other airlines,
intends to undertake a ten year capital improvement program (the "CIP") at
Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport. Implementation of the CIP should
increase the number of flights that may operate at the airport, reduce flight
delays and enable Hartsfield Atlanta International Airport to remain one of the
preeminent airports in the world. The CIP includes, among other things, a new
approximately 9,000 foot full-service runway (targeted for completion in
December 2004), related airfield improvements, additional terminal and gate
capacity, new cargo and other support facilities and roadway and other
infrastructure improvements. If fully implemented, the CIP is currently
estimated to cost approximately $5.4 billion. The CIP runs through 2010, with
individual projects scheduled to be constructed at different times. A
combination of federal grants, passenger facility charge revenues, increased
user rentals and fees, and other airport funds are expected to be used to pay
CIP costs directly and through the payment of debt service on bonds. There is no
assurance the CIP will be implemented on schedule and within budget, or that it
will be fully implemented. Some of the factors potentially impacting
implementation of the CIP are the need to obtain certain environmental approvals
as well as the ability of the City of Atlanta to acquire public property from
certain local governments and to obtain their consent to condemn private
property. Failure to implement certain portions of the CIP in a timely manner
could adversely impact Delta's operations at Hartsfield Atlanta International
Airport.

        Delta leases ticket counter and other terminal space, operating areas
and air cargo facilities in most of the airports which it serves. These leases
generally run for periods of less than one year to thirty years or more, and
contain provisions for periodic adjustment of lease rates. At most airports
which it serves, Delta has entered into use agreements which provide for the
non-exclusive use of runways, taxiways, and other facilities; landing fees under
these agreements normally are based on the number of landings and weight of
aircraft. The Company also leases aircraft maintenance facilities at certain
airports, generally under long-term leases which cover the cost of providing,
operating and maintaining such facilities. In addition, Delta leases marketing,
ticket and reservations offices in certain major cities which it serves; these
leases are generally for shorter terms than the airport leases. Additional
information relating to Delta's ground facilities is set forth in Notes 6 and 7
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 48-49 of Delta's
1999 Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference.




        In recent years, some airports have increased or sought to increase the
rates charged to airlines to levels that, in the airlines' opinion, are
unreasonable. The extent to which such charges are limited by statute or
regulation and the ability of airlines to contest such charges has been subject
to litigation and to administrative proceedings before the DOT. If the
limitations on such charges are relaxed or the ability of airlines to challenge
such charges is restricted, the rates charged by airports to airlines may
increase substantially.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         Certain Antitrust Actions. In June 1999, two purported class action
antitrust lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Michigan against Delta, US Airways, Inc., Northwest
Airlines, Inc. and the Airlines Reporting Corporation, an airline-owned company
that operates a centralized clearinghouse for travel agents to report and
account for airline ticket sales.

         In the first case, the plaintiffs allege, among other things: (1) that
the defendants and certain other airlines conspired with Delta in violation of
Section 1 of the Sherman Act to restrain competition and assist Delta in fixing
and maintaining anti-competitive prices for air passenger service to and from
its Atlanta and Cincinnati hubs; and (2) that Delta violated Section 2 of the
Sherman Act by exercising monopoly power to establish such prices in an
anti-competitive or exclusionary manner. The complaint asserts that, for
purposes of plaintiffs' damages claims, the purported plaintiff class consists
of all persons who purchased a Delta full fare ticket from June 11, 1995 to the
present on routes (1) that start or end at Delta's hubs in Atlanta or
Cincinnati; (2) on which Delta has over a 50% market share; (3) that are longer
than 150 miles; and (4) that have total annual traffic of over 30,000
passengers.

         In the second case, the plaintiffs assert similar allegations and
claims under Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act with respect to US Airways'
pricing practices at its Pittsburgh and Charlotte hubs ("US Airways Hubs").
The complaint asserts, among other things, that Delta, the other defendants and
certain other airlines conspired with US Airways to restrain competition and
assist US Airways in fixing and maintaining prices for air passenger service
to and from the US Airways Hubs.

         In both cases, plaintiffs have requested a jury trial, and are seeking
injunctive relief; costs and attorneys' fees; unspecified damages, to be trebled
under the antitrust laws; and such further relief as the Court deems
appropriate. Delta believes that the allegations and claims asserted against it
in these cases are without merit and it intends to defend these lawsuits
vigorously.

         ASA Holdings Shareholder Litigation. On February 25, 1999, two
individual shareholders of ASA Holdings, Inc. ("ASA Holdings"), on behalf of
themselves and other shareholders of ASA Holdings, filed a purported class
action complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton County in the state of Georgia
against ASA Holdings, its directors (collectively, the



 "ASA Holdings Defendants") and Delta. The complaint seeks (1) to enjoin Delta's
acquisition of ASA Holdings or to rescind the acquisition if consummated; (2)
unspecified compensatory and rescissory damages; and (3) costs and disbursements
of the action. The complaint alleges, among other things: (1) that the ASA
Holdings Defendants violated their fiduciary duties to shareholders of ASA
Holdings by entering into an acquisition agreement with Delta and by
recommending the acquisition; and (2) that Delta is a controlling shareholder of
ASA Holdings, violated its fiduciary duties to shareholders of ASA Holdings
because it "wrongfully used its superior position and control to bring to bear
pressure on the [Board of Directors of ASA Holdings]," and caused the ASA
Holdings Defendants to accept an inadequate price for Delta's purchase of ASA
Holdings.

         On March 9, 1999, the parties entered into a memorandum of
understanding ("Memorandum of Understanding") setting forth the terms of an
agreement-in-principle to settle this litigation. Under the Memorandum of
Understanding, which was agreed to by the ASA Holdings Defendants and Delta
solely to avoid the burden, expense and distraction of further litigation, Delta
and ASA Holdings amended the acquisition agreement to eliminate the $5 million
termination fee that would otherwise have been payable to Delta if the
acquisition agreement was terminated as a result of ASA Holdings receiving and
accepting a superior acquisition offer. The proposed settlement is subject to
certain conditions, including completion by plaintiffs of appropriate discovery
reasonably satisfactory to plaintiffs' counsel; the preparation and execution of
definitive settlement documents; and final court approval of the settlement,
which would be binding upon a class consisting of all shareholders of ASA
Holdings from February 15, 1999 through May 11, 1999. ASA Holdings has agreed to
pay the fees and expenses of plaintiffs' counsel up to an aggregate amount of
$400,000, subject to final court approval of the settlement.

        Other Matters. Delta is a defendant in certain other legal actions
relating to alleged employment discrimination practices, antitrust matters,
environmental issues and other matters concerning Delta's business. Although the
ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, management
believes that the resolution of these actions is not likely to have a material
adverse effect on Delta's consolidated financial statements.

        For a discussion of certain environmental matters, see "ITEM 1. Business
- - Environmental Matters" on pages 8-9 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

        Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Certain information concerning Delta's executive officers follows.
Unless otherwise indicated, all positions shown are with Delta. There are no
family relationships between any of Delta's executive officers.





Leo F. Mullin              President and Chief Executive Officer, August 14,
                           1997 to date. Mr. Mullin was Vice Chairman of Unicom
                           Corporation and its principal subsidiary,
                           Commonwealth Edison Company, from 1995 through August
                           13, 1997. He was an executive of First Chicago
                           Corporation from 1981 to 1995, serving as that
                           company's President and Chief Operating Officer from
                           1993 to 1995, and as Chairman and Chief Executive
                           Officer of American National Bank, a subsidiary of
                           First Chicago Corporation, from 1991 to 1993. Age 56.

Maurice  W. Worth          Chief Operating Officer, August 14, 1997 to date;
                           Acting Chief Executive Officer, August 1, 1997
                           through August 13, 1997; Executive Vice President -
                           Customer Service and Acting Chief Operating Officer,
                           May 12, 1997 through July 31, 1997; Executive Vice
                           President - Customer Service, September 13, 1995
                           through May 11, 1997; Senior Vice President -
                           Personnel, May 1991 through September 12, 1995. Mr.
                           Worth is retiring from Delta on October 1, 1999. Age
                           59.

Malcolm B. Armstrong       Executive Vice President - Operations, October 1998
                           to date; Vice President - Corporate Safety and
                           Compliance, June 1997 through September 1998. Mr.
                           Armstrong was Vice President - Corporate Safety and
                           Compliance of US Airways, Inc. from July 1995 to June
                           1997. He served as a Lieutenant General in the United
                           States Air Force from May 1992 to June 1995. Age 57.

Robert L. Colman           Executive Vice President - Human Resources,
                           October 2, 1998 to date. Mr. Colman was Vice
                           President - Human Resources for General Electric
                           Aircraft Engines Business from October 1993 to
                           October 1998. Age 54.

Vicki B. Escarra           Executive Vice President - Customer Service, July
                           1998 to date; Senior Vice President - Airport
                           Customer Service, November 1996 through June 1998;
                           Vice President - Airport Customer Service, August
                           1996 through October 1996; Vice President -
                           Reservation Sales and Distribution Planning, May 1996
                           through July 1996; Vice President - Reservation
                           Sales, November 1994 to May 1996; Director -
                           Reservations Sales, October 1994 to November 1994;
                           Director - In-Flight Service Operations, May 1992 to
                           October 1994. Age 47.




Frederick W. Reid          Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer,
                           July 1, 1998 to date. Mr. Reid was an executive of
                           Lufthansa German Airlines from 1991 to 1998, serving
                           as that company's President and Chief Operating
                           Officer from April 1997 to June 1998, as Executive
                           Vice President from 1996 to March 1997, and as Senior
                           Vice President, The Americas, from 1991 to 1996. Age
                           49.

Edward H. West             Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
                           September 16, 1999 to date; Chief Financial Officer,
                           September 7, 1999 through September 15, 1999; Senior
                           Vice President - Corporate Strategy and Business
                           Development, July 1999 through September 6, 1999;
                           Vice President - Financial Planning and Analysis,
                           April 1998 through June 1999; Chief Financial Officer
                           (Acting), December 1997 to April 1998; Vice President
                           - Financial Planning and Analysis, June 1997 through
                           November 1997; Controller, November 1996 through May
                           1997; Director - Corporate Finance, December 1995
                           through October 1996; General Manager - Corporate
                           Finance, January 1995 through November 1995;
                           Assistant to the Senior Vice President - Finance and
                           Chief Financial Officer, June 1994 through December
                           1994. Prior to joining Delta in 1994, Mr. West had a
                           seven year career in corporate banking. Age 33.


                                     PART II


ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

        Information required by this item is set forth under "Common Stock",
"Number of Shareowners" and "Market Prices and Dividends" on page 62 of Delta's
1999 Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference.

        Under the Delta Air Lines, Inc. Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan
("Plan"), members of the Company's Board of Directors may defer for a specified
period all or any part of their cash compensation earned as a director. A
participating director may choose an investment return on the deferred amount
from among certain of the investment return choices available under the Delta
Family-Care Savings Plan, a qualified defined contribution pension plan for
eligible Delta personnel. One of the investment return choices under the Delta
Family-Care Savings Plan that a participating director may select is a fund
invested



primarily in Delta's common stock ("Delta Common Stock Fund"). During the
quarter ended June 30, 1999, a participant in the Plan deferred $17,125 in the
Delta Common Stock Fund investment return choice (equivalent to 264 shares of
Delta common stock at prevailing market prices). These transactions were not
registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in reliance on Section
4(2) of such Act.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

        Information required by this item is set forth on pages 60-61 of Delta's
1999 Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

        Information required by this item is set forth on pages 26-35 of Delta's
1999 Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference
(except for the first and second paragraphs on page 26.)

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

        Information required by this item is set forth under "Market Risks
Associated With Financial Instruments" on pages 34-35, and in Notes 2 and 4 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 43-44 and page 45,
respectively, of Delta's 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

        Information required by this item is set forth on pages 36-57, and in
"Report of Independent Public Accountants" on page 58, of Delta's 1999 Annual
Report to Shareowners, and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        Not applicable.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        Information required by this item is set forth on pages 7-9, and under
"Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" on page 24, of Delta's
Proxy Statement dated




September 24, 1999, and is incorporated herein by reference. Certain information
regarding executive officers is contained in Part I of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        Information required by this item is set forth on page 6, and on pages
17-24, of Delta's Proxy Statement dated September 24, 1999, and is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
         MANAGEMENT

        Information required by this item is set forth under "Beneficial
Ownership of Securities" on pages 10-12 of Delta's Proxy Statement dated
September 24, 1999, and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Additional information required by this item is set forth on page 24 of
Delta's Proxy Statement dated September 24, 1999, and is incorporated herein by
reference.


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a)(1), (2). The financial statements and schedule required by this item are
listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page 20
of this Form 10-K.

            (3). The exhibits required by this item are listed in the Exhibit
Index on page 25-28 of this Form 10-K. The management contracts and compensatory
plans or arrangements required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K are
listed as Exhibits 10.6 to 10.19 in the Exhibit Index.

    (b).         During the quarter ended June 30, 1999, Delta did not file any
Current Reports on Form 8-K.






                                   SIGNATURES

        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 27th day of
September, 1999.

                                    DELTA AIR LINES, INC.


                                    By: /s/ Leo F. Mullin
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                        Leo F. Mullin
                                        President and Chief Executive Officer



        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below on the 27th day of September, 1999 by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.





















             INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS - Incorporated herein by reference to
"Report of Independent Public Accountants" on page 58 of Delta's 1999 Annual
Report to Shareowners.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - All of which are incorporated herein by reference to
Delta's 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners.

Consolidated Balance Sheets - June 30, 1999 and 1998

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended June 30, 1999, 1998
and 1997

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended June 30, 1999, 1998
and 1997

Consolidated Statements of Shareowners' Equity for the years ended June 30,
1999, 1998 and 1997

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements - June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE SUPPORTING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:




       All other schedules have been omitted as not applicable.





              REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULE



To Delta Air Lines, Inc.:

We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, the
consolidated financial statements included in Delta Air Lines, Inc.'s annual
report to shareowners incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and have
issued our report thereon dated August 13, 1999. Our audits were made for the
purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The schedule
listed in the accompanying index is the responsibility of the Company's
management, is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission's rules, and is not part of the basic financial statements.
The schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits
of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.



ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP




Atlanta, Georgia
August 13, 1999





                                                                     SCHEDULE II




                              DELTA AIR LINES, INC.
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1999

                              (Amounts in Millions)






                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                              DELTA AIR LINES, INC.
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998

                              (Amounts in Millions)






                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                              DELTA AIR LINES, INC.
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997

                              (Amounts in Millions)








                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


         3.1 Delta's Certificate of Incorporation (Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to
Delta's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
1998).*

         3.2 Delta's By-Laws.

         4.1 Rights Agreement dated as of October 24, 1996, between Delta and
First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as Rights Agent, as amended by
Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of July 22, 1999 (Filed as Exhibit 1 to Delta's
Form 8-A/A Registration Statement dated November 4, 1996, and Exhibit 3 to
Delta's Amendment No. 1 to Form 8-A/A Registration Statement dated July 30,
1999).*

         4.2 Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series B
ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock and Series D Junior Participating Preferred
Stock (Filed as part of Exhibit 3.1 of this Form 10-K).

         4.3 Indenture dated as of March 1, 1983, between Delta and The Citizens
and Southern National Bank, as trustee, as supplemented by the First and Second
Supplemental Indentures thereto dated as of January 27, 1986 and May 26, 1989,
respectively (Filed as Exhibit 4 to Delta's Registration Statement on Form S-3
(Registration No. 2-82412), Exhibit 4(b) to Delta's Registration Statement on
Form S-3 (Registration No. 33-2972), and Exhibit 4.5 to Delta's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1989).*

        4.4 Agreement dated May 31, 1989, among Delta, The Citizens and Southern
National Bank and The Citizens and Southern National Bank of Florida relating to
the appointment of a successor trustee under the Indenture dated as of March 1,
1983, as supplemented, between Delta and The Citizens and Southern National Bank
(Filed as Exhibit 4.6 to Delta's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
June 30, 1989).*

        4.5 Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998, between
Delta and The Bank of New York, as successor trustee, to the Indenture dated as
of March 1, 1983, as supplemented, between Delta and The Citizens and Southern
National Bank of Florida, as predecessor trustee (Filed as Exhibit 4.5 to
Delta's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1998).*

         4.6 Indenture dated as of April 30, 1990, between Delta and The
Citizens and Southern National Bank of Florida, as trustee (Filed as Exhibit
4(a) to Amendment No. 1 to Delta's Registration Statement on Form S-3
(Registration No. 33-34523)).*

        4.7 First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 10, 1998, between
Delta and The Bank of New York, as successor trustee, to the Indenture dated as
of April 30, 1990, between Delta and The Citizens and Southern National Bank of
Florida, as predecessor trustee (Filed as Exhibit 4.7 to Delta's Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1998).*





         4.8 Indenture dated as of May 1, 1991, between Delta and The Citizens
and Southern National Bank of Florida, Trustee (Filed as Exhibit 4 to Delta's
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 33-40190)).*

        4.9  Credit Agreement dated as of May 2, 1997, by and among Delta,
Certain Banks and NationsBank, N.A. (South), as Agent Bank (Filed as Exhibit 4.7
to Delta's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1997).*

        4.10 Note Purchase Agreement dated February 22, 1990, among the Delta
Family-Care Savings Plan, Issuer, Delta, Guarantor, and Various Lenders relating
to the Guaranteed Serial ESOP Notes (Filed as Exhibit 10 to Delta's Current
Report on Form 8-K dated April 25, 1990).*

        4.11 Amendment No. 1 dated July 27, 1999, to the Note Purchase Agreement
dated February 22, 1990, among the Delta Family-Care Savings Plan, Issuer,
Delta, Guarantor, and Various Lenders relating to the Guaranteed Serial ESOP
Notes.

        4.12 Indenture of Trust dated as of August 1, 1993, among Delta,
Fidelity Management Trust Company, ESOP Trustee, and Wilmington Trust Company,
Trustee, relating to the Guaranteed Serial ESOP Notes (Filed as Exhibit 4.12 to
Delta's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1993).*

        Delta is not filing any other instruments evidencing any indebtedness
because the total amount of securities authorized under any single such
instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Delta and its subsidiaries
on a consolidated basis. Copies of such instruments will be furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

        10.1 Stock Purchase Agreement dated July 10, 1989, between Delta and
Swissair, Swiss Air Transport Company Ltd. (Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Delta's
Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 24, 1989).*

        10.2 Stock Purchase Agreement dated August 21, 1989, between Delta and
Swissair, Swiss Air Transport Company Ltd.(Filed as Exhibit 10.9 to Delta's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1989).*

        10.3 Stock Purchase Agreement dated October 26, 1989, between Singapore
Airlines Limited and Delta (Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Delta's Current Report on
Form 8-K dated November 2, 1989).*

        10.4 Stock Purchase Agreement dated October 26, 1989, between Delta and
Singapore Airlines Limited (Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Delta's Current Report on
Form 8-K dated November 2, 1989).*

        10.5 Sixth Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of
WORLDSPAN, L.P. dated as of April 30, 1993 (Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Delta's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1993).*




         10.6 Delta's Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (Filed as Exhibit
10.1 to Delta's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
30, 1997).*

         10.7 Delta's 1989 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (Filed as Appendix A
to Delta's Proxy Statement dated September 15, 1997.)*

         10.8 Delta's Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended (Filed as
Exhibit 10.2 to Delta's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 1997).*

         10.9 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.12 to
Delta's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1996).*

         10.10 Directors' Charitable Award Program (Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
Delta's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
1997).*

         10.11 1991 Delta Excess Benefit Plan, The Delta Supplemental Excess
Benefit Plan and Form of Senior Officer Excess Benefit Plan Agreement (Filed as
Exhibit 10.18 to Delta's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30,
1992, and Exhibit 10.17 to Delta's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
June 30, 1998).*

         10.12 Delta's Non-employee Directors' Stock Plan (Filed as Exhibit 4.5
to Delta's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-65391)).*

         10.13 Delta's Non-employee Directors' Stock Option Plan and Form of
Award Agreement dated October 22, 1998 (Filed as Exhibit 10 to Delta's Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1998).*

        10.14 Form of Stock Option and Restricted Stock Award Agreements under
Delta's 1989 Stock Incentive Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.17 to Delta's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1996).*

         10.15 Forms of Executive Retention Protection Agreements for Certain
Officers (Filed as Exhibit 10.16 of Delta's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended June 30, 1997).*

        10.16 Employment Agreement dated as of August 14, 1997 between Delta and
Leo F. Mullin (Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Delta's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended December 31, 1997).*

        10.17 Employment Agreement dated March 23, 1998 between Delta and Warren
C. Jenson (Filed as Exhibit 10.19 to Delta's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended June 30, 1998).*

        10.18 Employment Agreement dated June 5, 1998 between Delta and
Frederick W. Reid (Filed as Exhibit 10.20 to Delta's Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended June 30, 1998).*





        10.19 Employment Agreement dated September 17, 1998 between Delta and
Robert L. Colman (Filed as Exhibit 10 to Delta's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 1998).*

        10.20 Purchase Agreement No. 2022 between The Boeing Company and Delta
relating to Boeing Model 737-632/-732/-832 Aircraft (Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
Delta's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998).*/**

        10.21 Purchase Agreement No. 2025 between The Boeing Company and Delta
relating to Boeing Model 767-432ER Aircraft (Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Delta's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998).*/**

        10.22 Letter Agreements related to Purchase Agreements No. 2022 and/or
No. 2025 between The Boeing Company and Delta (Filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Delta's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998).*/**

        10.23 Aircraft General Terms Agreement AGTA-DAL between The Boeing
Company and Delta (Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Delta's Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998).*/**

        10.24 Agreement dated April 29, 1996, between Delta and The Air Line
Pilots in the service of Delta as represented by the Air Line Pilots
Association, International (Filed as Exhibit 10 to Delta's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1996).*

         12.  Statement regarding computation of ratio of earnings to fixed
charges for the years ended June 30, 1999, 1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

         13.  Portions of Delta's 1999 Annual Report to Shareowners.

         23.  Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

         24.  Powers of Attorney.

         27.  Financial Data Schedule.

- ----------------------------
  *Incorporated herein by reference
** Portions of this exhibit have been omitted and filed separately with the
Commission pursuant to Delta's request for confidential treatment.




