ITEM 1.  BUSINESS



The following discussion contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks anduncertainties.  Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in "Products" regarding growth in demand for NAND Flash products and solid-state drives and the growth in the markets for phase change memory products; in "Manufacturing" regarding the transition to smaller line-width process technologies and increases in output from IM Flash's wafer fabrication facility in Singapore;  and in "Research and Develop" regarding  tool installation at our new research and development facility in Boise, Idaho.  Our actual results could differ materially from our historical results and thosediscussed in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in "Item 1A. Risk Factors." All period references are to our fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated.







Corporate Information









Overview



We are a global manufacturer and marketer of semiconductor devices, principally DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash memory, as well as other innovative memory technologies, packaging solutions and semiconductor systems for use in leading-edge computing, consumer, networking, automotive, industrial and mobile products.  In addition, we manufacture semiconductor components for CMOS image sensors and other semiconductor products.  We market our products through our internal sales force, independent sales representatives and distributors primarily to original equipment manufacturers and retailers located around the world.  Our success is largely dependent on the market acceptance of our diversified portfolio of semiconductor products, efficient utilization of our manufacturing infrastructure, successful ongoing development of advanced process technologies and the return on research and development investments.



We obtain products from three primary sources:  (1) production from our wholly-owned manufacturing facilities, (2) production from our joint venture manufacturing facilities and (3) to a lesser degree from third party manufacturers.  In recent years, we have increased our manufacturing scale and product diversity through strategic acquisitions and various partnering arrangements, including joint ventures, which have helped us to attain lower costs than we could otherwise achieve through internal investments alone.








We have made significant investments to develop the proprietary product and process technology that is implemented in our worldwide manufacturing facilities and through our joint ventures to enable the production of semiconductor products with increasing functionality and performance at lower costs.  We generally reduce the manufacturing cost of each generation of product through advancements in product and process technology such as our leading-edge line-width process technology and innovative array architecture.  We continue to introduce new generations of products that offer improved performance characteristics, such as higher data transfer rates, reduced package size, lower power consumption and increased memory density.  To leverage our significant investments in research and development, we have formed various strategic joint ventures that have allowed us to share the costs of developing memory product and process technologies with our joint venture partners.  In addition, from time to time, we have also sold and/or licensed technology to other parties.  We continue to pursue additional opportunities to monetize our investment in intellectual property through partnering and other arrangements.



In the second quarter of 2011, we reorganized our business to better align with the markets we serve.  All prior period amounts have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect this reorganization.  After the reorganization, we have the following four reportable segments:



DRAM Solutions Group ("DSG"):Includes high-volume DRAM products sold to the PC, consumer electronics, networking and server markets.

NAND Solutions Group ("NSG"):Includes high-volume NAND Flash products sold into data storage, personal music players, and portions of computing markets, as well as NAND Flash products sold to Intel Corporation ("Intel") through our consolidated IM Flash joint ventures.

Wireless Solutions Group ("WSG"):Includes DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash products, including multi-chip packages, sold to the mobile device market.

Embedded Solutions Group ("ESG"):Includes DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash products sold into automotive and industrial applications, as well as NOR and NAND Flash sold to consumer electronics, networking, PC and server markets.



Our other operations do not meet the quantitative thresholds of a reportable segment and are reported under All Other.  All Other includes our CMOS image sensor, LED, microdisplay and solar operations.







Products



Over the past several years we have been focused on diversifying our product portfolio beyond DRAM products, which historically had constituted a substantial majority of our sales.  In 2011, sales of DRAM products were less than half our total sales and in the fourth quarter of 2011 sales of NAND Flash products exceeded sales of DRAM products for the first time in our history.



Dynamic Random Access Memory ("DRAM")



DRAM products are high-density, low-cost-per-bit, random access memory devices that provide high-speed data storage and retrieval.  DRAM products were 41%, 60% and 50% of our total net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  DRAM products are sold by the DSG, WSG and ESG segments.  We offer DRAM products with a variety of performance, pricing and other characteristics including high-volume DDR3 and DDR2 products as well as specialty DRAM memory products including Mobile Low Power DRAM ("LPDRAM"), DDR, SDRAM,  Reduced Latency DRAM ("RLDRAM") and Pseudo-static DRAM ("PSRAM").



DDR3 and DDR2:DDR3 and DDR2 are standardized, high-density, high-volume DRAM products that are sold primarily for use as main system memory in computers and servers.  DDR3 and DDR2 products offer high speed and high bandwidth at a relatively low cost compared to other DRAM products.  DDR3 products were 21%, 22% and 7% of our total net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  DDR2 products were 10%, 24% and 22% of our total net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



We offer DDR3 products in 1 gigabit ("Gb"), 2Gb and 4 Gb densities and DDR2 products in 256 megabit ("Mb"), 512 Mb, 1 gigabit and 2 Gb  densities.  We expect these densities will be necessary to meet future customer demands for a broad array of products and offer these products in multiple configurations, speeds and package types.








Specialty DRAM products:We also offer DRAM memory products including DDR and DDR2 Mobile LPDRAM, DDR, SDRAM, RLDRAM and PSRAM in densities ranging from 64 Mb to 2 Gb.  LPDRAM products are used primarily in laptop computers, tablets, and other consumer devices that require low power consumption.  Our other specialty DRAM products are used primarily in networking devices, servers, consumer electronics, communications equipment and computer peripherals as well as computer memory upgrades.  Aggregate sales of LPDRAM and our other DRAM products were 10%, 14% and 21% of our total net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



NAND Flash Memory ("NAND")



NAND products are electrically re-writeable, non-volatile semiconductor memory devices that retain content when power is turned off.  NAND sales were 36%, 28% and 39% of our total net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  NAND products are sold by the NSG, WSG and ESG segments.  NAND is ideal for mass-storage devices due to its fast erase and write times, high density, and low cost per bit relative to other solid-state memory.  Removable storage devices, such as USB and Flash memory cards, are used with applications such as personal computers, digital still cameras, MP3/4 players and mobile phones.  Embedded NAND-based storage devices are utilized in mobile phones, MP3/4 players, computers, solid-state drives ("SSDs"), tablets and other personal and consumer applications.  The market for NAND products has grown rapidly and we expect it to continue to grow due to demand for these and other removable and embedded storage devices.



Our NAND products feature a small cell structure that enables higher densities for demanding applications.  We offer Single-Level Cell ("SLC") NAND products and Multi-Level Cell ("MLC") NAND products, which have two or more times the bit density of SLC NAND products.  In 2011, we offered SLC NAND products in 1 Gb, 2 Gb, 4 Gb and 8 Gb densities.  In addition, we offered 8 Gb, 16 Gb, 32 Gb and 64 Gb 2-bit-per-cell MLC NAND products and 32 Gb and 64 Gb 3-bit-per-cell MLC NAND products.  We offer high-speed NAND products that are compatible with advanced interfaces.  We  offer NAND Flash in multichip packages ("MCPs") that incorporate NAND Flash with other memory products to create a single package that simplifies design while improving performance and functionality.



We offer next-generation RealSSD™ solid-state drives for enterprise server and notebook applications which feature higher performance, reduced power consumption and enhanced reliability as compared to typical hard disk drives.  Using our SLC and MLC NAND process technology, these SSDs are offered in 2.5-inch and 1.8-inch form factors, with densities up to 512 gigabytes.  We also offer embedded USB devices with densities up to 16 gigabytes.   We are  sampling enterprise PCIe SSDs with capacities up to 700 gigabytes.  We expect that demand for SSDs will continue to increase significantly over the next several years.



Through our Lexar™  brand, we sell high-performance digital media products and other flash-based storage products through retail and original equipment manufacturing ("OEM") channels.  Our digital media products include a variety of flash memory cards and JumpDrive™ products with a range of speeds, capacities and value-added features.  We offer flash memory cards in a variety of speeds and capacities and in all major media formats, including:  CompactFlash, Memory Stick and Secure Digital ("SD").  CompactFlash and Memory Stick products sold by us incorporate our patented controller technology.  Other products, including SD memory cards and some JumpDrive™ products, incorporate third party controllers.  We sell products under our Lexar™ brand and manufacture products that are sold under other brand names.  We also resell flash memory products that are purchased from other NAND Flash suppliers.



NOR Flash Memory ("NOR")



NOR products are electrically re-writeable, non-volatile semiconductor memory devices that retain content when power is turned off, offer fast read times due to random access capability and have execute-in-place ("XiP") capability that enables processors to read NOR without first accessing RAM.  These capabilities make NOR ideal for storing program code in wireless and embedded applications.   Our NOR sales originated from the May 7, 2010 acquisition of Numonyx and were 18% and 5% of our total net sales for 2011 and 2010, respectively.  NOR products are sold by the WSG and ESG segments.



We offer both parallel and serial interface NOR products in a broad range of densities, packages, and features.  Our parallel NOR products are constructed to meet the needs of the consumer electronics, industrial, wired and wireless communications, computing and automotive applications.  These products offer high densities, XiP performance, architectural flexibility and proven reliability in rigorous industrial settings.  Our serial NOR products are designed to meet the needs of consumer electronics, industrial, wired communications, and computing applications. These products offer industry-standard packaging, pinouts, command sets and chipset compatibility.








Phase Change Memory ("PCM")



PCM is a new memory technology that combines the attributes of NOR, NAND and RAM, simplifying memory and producing more capabilities within a single chip.  PCM is bit-alterable, non-volatile memory featuring fast read/write/erase speeds that is highly scalable to lower line-width technologies.  We currently offer both parallel and serial interface PCM products and expect that the market for these products will increase significantly in the next several years.







Partnering Arrangements



The following is a summary of our partnering arrangements as of September 1, 2011:



Partner(s)Approximate MicronOwnership InterestFormed/AcquiredProduct MarketConsolidated Entities:IMFT(1)Intel Corporation51%2006NAND FlashIMFS(1)Intel Corporation86%2007NAND FlashMP Mask(2)Photronics, Inc.50%2006PhotomasksEquity Method Investments:Inotera(3)Nanya Technology Corporation30%2009DRAMMeiYa(3)Nanya Technology Corporation50%2008DRAMTransform(4)Origin Energy Limited50%2010Solar PanelsAptina(5)Riverwood Capital LLC and TPG Partners VI, L.P.35%2009CMOS Image Sensors





(1)

IM Flash:



(2)MP Mask:We produce photomasks for leading-edge and advanced next generation semiconductors through MP Mask Technology Center, LLC ("MP Mask"), a joint venture with Photronics, Inc. ("Photronics").  We and Photronics also have supply arrangements wherein we purchase a substantial majority of the reticles produced by MP Mask.  (See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Consolidated Variable Interest Entities – MP Mask Technology Center, LLC." note.)










(3)

Inotera and MeiYa:



(4)Transform:On December 18, 2009, we acquired a 50% interest in Transform Solar Pty Limited ("Transform"), a subsidiary of Origin Energy Limited ("Origin")  in exchange for nonmonetary assets with a fair value of $65 million, consisting of manufacturing facilities, equipment, intellectual property and a fully-paid lease to a portion of our Boise, Idaho manufacturing facilities.  Transform develops and manufactures photovoltaic solar panels.  (See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Equity Method Investments – Transform" note.)



(5)Aptina:We manufacture CMOS image sensor products for Aptina under a wafer supply agreement.  We own 64% of Aptina’s common stock and none of their preferred stock resulting in a total ownership interest in Aptina of 35%.  Our investment in Aptina is accounted for as an equity method investment, in which we recognize our share of Aptina’s results of operations based on our 64% share of Aptina’s common stock.  (See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Equity Method Investments – Aptina" note.)







Manufacturing



Our manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, China, Israel, Italy, Malaysia, Puerto Rico and Singapore.  Our Inotera joint venture also has a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan.  In 2011, we sold our wafer fabrication facility in Japan to Tower Semiconductor Ltd. ("Tower") and entered into a supply agreement for Tower to manufacture products for us in the facility through approximately May 2014.  Our manufacturing facilities generally operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.  Semiconductor manufacturing is extremely capital intensive, requiring large investments in sophisticated facilities and equipment.  A significant portion of our semiconductor equipment is replaced every three to five years with increasingly advanced equipment.  DRAM, NAND and NOR share common manufacturing processes, enabling us to leverage our product and process technologies and manufacturing infrastructure across these product lines.










Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize dust and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants.  Despite stringent manufacturing controls, equipment errors, minute impurities in materials, defects in photomasks, circuit design marginalities or defects and dust particles can lead to wafers being scrapped and individual circuits being nonfunctional.  Success of our manufacturing operations depends largely on minimizing defects to maximize yield of high-quality circuits.  In this regard, we employ rigorous quality controls throughout the manufacturing, screening and testing processes.  We are able to recover many nonstandard devices by testing and grading them to their highest level of functionality.



After fabrication, most silicon wafers are separated into individual die.  We sell semiconductor products in both packaged and unpackaged (i.e. "bare die") forms.  For packaged products, functional die are sorted, connected to external leads and encapsulated in plastic packages.  We assemble products in a variety of packages, including TSOP (thin small outline package), TQFP (thin quad flat package) and FBGA (fine pitch ball grid array).  Bare die products address customer requirements for smaller form factors and higher memory densities and provide superior flexibility for use in packaging technologies such as systems-in-a-package (SIPs) and multi-chip packages (MCPs), which reduce the board area required.



We test our products at various stages in the manufacturing process, perform high temperature burn-in on finished products and conduct numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production flow.  In addition, we use our proprietary AMBYX™ line of intelligent test and burn-in systems to perform simultaneous circuit tests of DRAM die during the burn-in process, capturing quality and reliability data and reducing testing time and cost.



We assemble a significant portion of our memory products into memory modules.  Memory modules consist of an array of memory components attached to printed circuit boards ("PCBs") that insert directly into computer systems or other electronic devices.  We also contract with independent foundries and assembly and testing organizations to manufacture Lexar-brand flash media products such as memory cards and USB devices.



We utilize subcontractors to perform a significant portion of our assembly and module assembly services.  Outsourcing these services enables us to reduce costs and minimize our capital investment.



In recent years, we have produced an increasingly broad portfolio of products, which enhances our ability to allocate resources to our most profitable products but also increases the complexity of our manufacturing process.  Although our product lines generally use similar manufacturing processes, our overall cost efficiency can be affected by frequent conversions to new products, the allocation of manufacturing capacity to more complex, smaller-volume parts and the reallocation of manufacturing capacity across various product lines.



NAND Flash Joint Ventures with Intel Corporation



Our IM Flash joint ventures with Intel manufacture NAND Flash memory products for the exclusive benefit of the partners.  We share the output of IM Flash with Intel generally in proportion to our and Intel's investment in IM Flash.  In 2011, IM Flash began ramping production at a new Singapore wafer fabrication facility and we expect that output from this facility will significantly increase our overall NAND Flash production in 2012.



Inotera



Under a supply agreement with Inotera, we have the right and obligation to obtain 50% of Inotera's total capacity of  approximately 130,000 300mm DRAM wafer starts per month as of September 1, 2011.  Inotera accounted for 33% of our DRAM gigabit production in 2011.



MP Mask



We produce photomasks for leading-edge and advanced next generation semiconductors through MP Mask.  We and Photronics also have supply arrangements wherein we have agreed to purchase a substantial majority of the reticles produced by MP Mask.



Aptina Supply Agreement



We manufacture CMOS image sensor products for Aptina under a wafer supply agreement.



(See "Partnering Arrangements")












Availability of Raw Materials



Our production processes require raw materials that meet exacting standards, including several that are customized for, or are unique to, us.  We generally have multiple sources and sufficient availability of supply.  However, only a limited number of suppliers are capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet our standards.  In some cases, materials are provided by a single supplier.  Various factors could reduce the availability of raw materials such as silicon wafers, photomasks, chemicals, gases, photoresist, lead frames, molding compound and other materials.  Shortages may occur from time to time in the future.  In addition, transportation problems could delay our receipt of raw materials.  Lead times for the supply of raw materials have been extended in the past.  If our supply of raw materials is interrupted or our lead times extended, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.







Marketing and Customers



Our products are sold into computing, consumer, networking, telecommunications, automotive, industrial and imaging markets.  Market concentrations from2011net sales were approximately as follows: computing (including desktop PCs, servers, notebooks and workstations),30%; mobile,25%; consumer electronics,15%; and networking and storage,15%.  Sales to Intel, primarily of NAND Flash from our IM Flash joint ventures, were 10% of our net sales in 2011, 9% of our net sales in 2010, and 20% of our net sales in 2009.  Sales to Hewlett-Packard Company, primarily of DRAM, were 9% of our net sales in 2011 and 13% of our net sales in 2010.



Our semiconductor memory products are offered under the Micron, Lexar®, Crucial™, SpecTek® and  Numonyx® brand names and private labels.  We market our semiconductor memory products primarily through our own direct sales force and maintain sales offices in our primary markets around the world.  We sell Lexar-branded NAND Flash memory products primarily through retail channels and our Crucial™-branded products through a web-based customer direct sales channel as well as channel and distribution partners.  Our products are also offered through independent sales representatives and distributors.  Independent sales representatives obtain orders subject to final acceptance by us and are compensated on a commission basis.  We make shipments against these orders directly to the customer.  Distributors carry our products in inventory and typically sell a variety of other semiconductor products, including competitors' products.  We maintain inventory at locations in close proximity to certain key customers to facilitate rapid delivery of products.



We offer products designed to meet the diverse needs of computing, server, automotive, networking, commercial/industrial, consumer electronics, mobile, embedded, security and medical applications.  Many of our customers require a thorough review or qualification of semiconductor products, which may take several months.







Backlog



Because of volatile industry conditions, customers are reluctant to enter into long-term, fixed-price contracts.  Accordingly, new order volumes for our semiconductor products fluctuate significantly.  We typically accept orders with acknowledgment that the terms may be adjusted to reflect market conditions at the date of shipment.  For these reasons, we do not believe that our order backlog as of any particular date is a reliable indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period.







Product Warranty



Because the design and manufacturing process for semiconductor products is highly complex, it is possible that we may produce products that do not comply with customer specifications, contain defects or are otherwise incompatible with end uses.  In accordance with industry practice, we generally provide a limited warranty that our products are in compliance with our specifications existing at the time of delivery.  Under our general terms and conditions of sale, liability for certain failures of product during a stated warranty period is usually limited to repair or replacement of defective items or return of, or a credit with respect to, amounts paid for such items.  Under certain circumstances, we provide more extensive limited warranty coverage than that provided under our general terms and conditions.












Competition



We face intense competition in the semiconductor memory markets from a number of companies, including Elpida Memory, Inc.; Hynix Semiconductor Inc.; Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd; SanDisk Corporation; Spansion Inc. and Toshiba Corporation.  Some of our competitors are large corporations or conglomerates that may have greater resources to withstand downturns in the semiconductor markets in which we compete, invest in technology and capitalize on growth opportunities.  Our competitors seek to increase silicon capacity, improve yields, reduce die size and minimize mask levels in their product designs resulting in significantly increased worldwide supply and downward pressure on prices.  Many of our high-volume memory products are manufactured to industry standard specifications, and as such, have similar performance characteristics to our competitors.  For these high-volume memory products, the principal competitive factors are generally price and performance characteristics including:  operating speed, power consumption, reliability, compatibility, size and form factors.  For our other memory products, the aforementioned performance characteristics generally take precedent to pricing.







Research and Development



Our process technology research and development ("R&D") efforts are focused primarily on development of successively smaller line-width process technologies, which are designed to facilitate our transition to next generation memory products.  Additional process technology R&D efforts focus on advanced computing and mobile memory architectures, the investigation of new opportunities that leverage our core semiconductor expertise and the development of new manufacturing materials.   Product design and development efforts are concentrated on our high density DDR3 DRAM and LP-DDR2 mobile LPDRAM products as well as high density and mobile NAND Flash memory (including multi-level cell technology), NOR Flash memory, specialty memory, PCM and other next-generation memories and memory systems.



Our R&D expenses were $791 million, $624 million and $647 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  We generally share R&D process and design costs for NAND Flash equally with Intel and for DRAM equally with Nanya.  As a result of reimbursements under our NAND Flash and DRAM cost sharing arrangements with our joint venture partners, our overall R&D expenses were reduced by $236 million, $155 million and $107 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



To compete in the semiconductor memory industry, we must continue to develop technologically advanced products and processes.  We believe that expansion of our semiconductor product offerings is necessary to meet expected market demand for specific memory solutions.  Our process development center and largest design center are located at our corporate headquarters in Boise, Idaho.  In 2011, we began construction of a new 450mm-wafer capable R&D facility in Boise which we expect will be ready for tool installations in the beginning of calendar year 2012.  We have several additional product design centers in other strategic locations around the world.  In addition, we develop leading edge photolithography mask technology at our MP Mask joint venture facility in Boise.



R&D expenses vary primarily with the number of development wafers processed, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and process development, and personnel costs.  Because of the lead times necessary to manufacture our products, we typically begin to process wafers before completion of performance and reliability testing.  We deem development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability.  R&D expenses can vary significantly depending on the timing of product qualification.







Geographic Information



Sales to customers outside the United States totaled $7.4 billion for 2011 and included $3.0 billion in sales to China, $924 million in sales to Europe, $744 million in sales to Taiwan, $737 million in sales to Malaysia and $1.5 billion in sales to the rest of the Asia Pacific region (excluding China, Malaysia and Taiwan).  Sales to customers outside the United States totaled $7.1 billion for 2010 and $3.9 billion for 2009.  As of September 1, 2011, we had net property, plant and equipment of $3.6 billion in Singapore, $3.5 billion in the United States, $190 million in Italy, $179 million in China, $94 million in Israel, and $36 million in other countries.  (See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Geographic Information" note and "Item 1A. Risk Factors.")












Patents and Licenses



In recent years, we have been recognized as a leader in per capita and quality of patents issued.  As of September 1, 2011, we owned approximately 17,100 U.S. patents and 3,200 foreign patents.  In addition, we have numerous U.S. and foreign patent applications pending.  Our patents have various terms expiring through 2030.



We have a number of patent and intellectual property license agreements.  Some of these license agreements require us to make one-time or periodic payments.  We may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements in the future.  We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms.



In recent years, we have recovered some of our investment in technology through sales or licenses of intellectual property rights to joint venture partners and other third parties.  We are pursuing additional opportunities to recover our investment in intellectual property through additional sales or licenses of intellectual property and potential partnering arrangements.







Employees



As of September 1, 2011, we had approximately 26,100 employees, of which approximately 15,500 were outside the United States, including approximately 7,600 in Singapore, 3,300 in Italy, 1,700 in China, 1,300 in Israel and 1,000 in Malaysia.  Our employees include approximately 2,800 in our IM Flash joint ventures, primarily located in the United States and Singapore.  Our employment levels can vary depending on market conditions and the level of our production, research and product and process development.  Many of our employees are highly skilled and our continued success depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain such employees.  The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.







Environmental Compliance



Government regulations impose various environmental controls on raw materials and discharges, emissions and solid wastes from our manufacturing processes.  In 2011, our wholly-owned wafer fabrication facilities continued to conform to the requirements of ISO 14001certification.  To continue certification, we met annual requirements in environmental policy, compliance, planning, management, structure and responsibility, training, communication, document control, operational control, emergency preparedness and response, record keeping and management review.  While we have not experienced any materially adverse effects to our operations from environmental regulations, changes in the regulations could necessitate additional capital expenditures, modification of our operations or other compliance actions.







Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant



Our officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors and our directors are elected annually by our shareholders.  Any directors appointed by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board serve until the next election by the shareholders.  All officers and directors serve until their successors are duly chosen or elected and qualified, except in the case of earlier death, resignation or removal.








As of September 1, 2011, the following executive officers and directors were subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.



NameAgePositionMark W. Adams47Vice President of Worldwide SalesSteven R. Appleton51Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerD. Mark Durcan50President and Chief Operating OfficerThomas T. Eby50Vice President of Embedded SolutionsRonald C. Foster61Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial OfficerGlen W. Hawk49Vice President of NAND SolutionsRoderic W. Lewis56Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryMario Licciardello69Vice President of Wireless SolutionsPatrick T. Otte49Vice President of Human ResourcesBrian J. Shields49Vice President of Worldwide OperationsBrian M. Shirley42Vice President of DRAM SolutionsTeruaki Aoki69DirectorJames W. Bagley72DirectorRobert L. Bailey54DirectorPatrick J. Byrne50DirectorMercedes Johnson57DirectorLawrence N. Mondry51DirectorRobert E. Switz65Director



Mark W. Adamsjoined us in June 2006.  From January 2006, until he joined us, Mr. Adams was the Chief Operating Officer of Lexar Media, Inc.  Mr. Adams served as the Vice President of Sales and Marketing for Creative Labs, Inc. from December 2002 to January 2006.  From March 2000 to September 2002, Mr. Adams was the Chief Executive Officer of Coresma, Inc.  Mr. Adams holds a BA in Economics from Boston College and an MBA from Harvard Business School.



Steven R. Appletonjoined us in February 1983 and has served in various capacities since that time.  Mr. Appleton first became an officer in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions since that time.  From April 1991 until July 1992 and since May 1994, Mr. Appleton has served on our Board of Directors.  From September 1994 to June 2007, Mr. Appleton served as our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors.  From June 2007, Mr. Appleton served as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board.  Mr. Appleton holds a BA in Business Management from Boise State University.



D. Mark Durcanjoined us in June 1984 and has served in various positions since that time.  Mr. Durcan was appointed our Chief Operating Officer in February 2006 and President in June 2007.  Mr. Durcan has been an officer since 1996.  Mr. Durcan holds a BS and MChE in Chemical Engineering from Rice University.



Thomas T. Ebyjoined us in September 2010 and serves as our Vice President of Embedded Solutions. Mr. Eby was with Spansion Inc from October 2005 to September 2010 where he held leading roles in strategy and communications, sales and marketing, and integration. He was also the General Manager of and Excutive Vice President of Spansion's embedded group.  Mr. Eby previously held a variety of positions in sales and marketing and strategy with AMD.  Mr. Eby holds a BS degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University.



Ronald C. Fosterjoined usin April 2008 and is the Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance.  In this position, Mr. Foster has oversight responsibilities of the financial aspects of Micron's worldwide operations.  He was appointed to his current position in 2008 after serving as a member of the Board of Directors from June 2004 to April 2005.  Before joining Micron, Mr. Foster was the chief financial officer of FormFactor, Inc.  He previously served as the Chief Financial Officer for JDS Uniphase, Inc., and Novell, Inc., and has held senior financial management positions at Hewlett-Packard and Applied Materials.  He is currently a member of the Board of Directors of Luxim, Inc.  Mr. Foster holds an MBA from the University of Chicago and a BA in Economics from Whitman College.



Glen W. Hawkjoined us in May 2010 and serves as our Vice President of NAND Solutions.  Mr. Hawk served as the Vice President and General Manger of the Embedded Business Group for Numonyx from 2008 to May 2010.  Prior to Numonyx, Mr. Hawk served as General Manager of the Flash Product Group for Intel Corporation.  Mr. Hawk holds a BS in Chemical Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley.








Roderic W. Lewisjoined us in August 1991 and has served in various capacities since that time.  Mr. Lewis has served as our Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 1996.  Mr. Lewis holds a BA in Economics and Asian Studies from Brigham Young University and a JD from Columbia University School of Law.



Mario Licciardellojoined us in May 2010 and serves as our Vice President of Wireless Solutions.  Mr. Licciardello served as the Chief Operating Officer for Numonyx since its inception in 2008 through May 2010.  Prior to Numonyx, Mr. Licciardello served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the Flash Memories Group at STMicroelectronics N.V.  Mr. Licciardello holds a BS in Physics from the University of Catania, Italy.



Patrick T. Ottejoined us in 1987 and has served in various positions of increasing responsibility, including production and operations manager in several of our fabrication facilities and site director for our facility in Manassas, Virginia.  Mr. Otte has served as our Vice President of Human Resources since March 2007.  Mr. Otte holds a BS degree from St. Paul Bible College in Minneapolis, Minnesota.



Brian J. Shieldsjoined us in November 1986 and has served in various operational positions with us.  Mr. Shields first became an officer in March 2003 and was Vice President of Wafer Fabrication starting December 2005 and has served as Vice President of Worldwide Operations from June 2010.



Brian M. Shirleyjoined us in August 1992 and has served in various positions since that time.  Mr. Shirley became Vice President of Memory in February 2006 and has served as Vice President of DRAM Solutions from June 2010.  Mr. Shirley holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.



Teruaki Aokihas served as President of Sony University since April 2005.  Dr. Aoki has been associated with Sony since 1970 and has held various executive positions, including Senior Executive Vice President and Executive Officer of Sony Corporation as well as President and Chief Operating Officer of Sony Electronics, a U.S. subsidiary.  Dr. Aoki holds a Ph.D. in Material Sciences from Northwestern University as well as a BS in Applied Physics from the University of Tokyo.  He was elected as an IEEE Fellow in 2003 and serves as Advisory Board Member of Kellogg School of Management of Northwestern University.  Dr. Aoki also serves on the board of Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. Dr. Aoki is the Chairman of the Board's Compensation Committee.  He has served on our Board of Directors since 2006.



James W. Bagleybecame the Executive Chairman of Lam Research Corporation ("Lam"), a supplier of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, in June 2005.  From August 1997 through June 2005, Mr. Bagley served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lam. Mr. Bagley is a member of the Board of Directors of Teradyne, Inc.  He has served on our Board of Directors since June 1997.  Mr. Bagley holds MS and BS degrees in Electrical Engineering from Mississippi State University.



Robert L. Baileywas the Chairman of the Board of Directors of PMC-Sierra ("PMC") from 2005 until May 2011 and also served as PMC's Chairman from February 2000 until February 2003.  Mr. Bailey served as a director of PMC since October 1996.  He also served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of PMC from July 1997 until May 2008.  PMC is a leading provider of broadband communication and semiconductor storage solutions for the next-generation Internet.  Mr. Bailey currently serves on the Board of Directors of Entropic Communications.  Mr. Bailey holds a BS degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Bridgeport and an MBA from the University of Dallas.  He has served on our Board of Directors since 2007.



Patrick J. Byrnehas served as Director, President and Chief Executive Officer of Intermec, Inc. (“Intermec”) since July 2007.  Intermec develops and integrates products, services and technologies that identify, track and manage supply chain assets and information.  Prior to joining Intermec, Mr. Byrne served as a Senior Vice President and President of the Electronic Measurement Group of Agilent Technologies Inc., a bio-analytical and electronic measurement company, from February 2005 to March 2007.  Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Byrne served as Vice President and General Manager for Agilent's Electronic Products and Solutions Group's Wireless Business Unit from September 2001 to February 2005.  He served as Vice President for Agilent's Electronic Products and Solutions Group's Product Generation Units from 1999 to 2001.  Mr. Byrne is also a member of the Board of Directors of Flow International, a manufacturer of ultrahigh-pressure waterjet technology, and a leading provider of robotics and assembly equipment.  Mr. Byrne received his BS degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley, and his MS degree in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.  Mr. Byrne joined our Board of Directors in April 2011.








Mercedes Johnsonwas the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Avago Technologies Limited, a supplier of analog interface components for communications, industrial and consumer applications, from December 2005 to August 2008.  She also served as the Senior Vice President, Finance, of Lam from June 2004 to January 2005 and as Lam's Chief Financial Officer from May 1997 to May 2004.  Ms. Johnson holds a degree in Accounting from the University of Buenos Aires and currently serves on the Board of Directors for Intersil Corporation and Juniper Networks, Inc.  Ms. Johnson is the Chairman of the Board's Audit Committee and has served on our Board of Directors since 2005.



Lawrence N. Mondrywas the President and Chief Executive Officer of CSK Auto Corporation ("CSK"), a specialty retailer of automotive aftermarket parts, from August 2007 to July 2008.  Prior to his appointment at CSK, Mr. Mondry served as the Chief Executive Officer of CompUSA Inc. from November 2003 to May 2006.  Mr. Mondry joined CompUSA in 1990.  Mr. Mondry is the Chairman of the Board's Governance Committee and Presiding Director.  He has served on our Board of Directors since 2005.



Robert E. Switzwas the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ADC Telecommunications, Inc., ("ADC"), a supplier of network infrastructure products and services from August 2003 until December 2010, when Tyco Electronics Ltd. acquired ADC.  Mr. Switz joined ADC in 1994 and throughout his career there held numerous leadership positions.  Mr. Switz holds an MBA from the University of Bridgeport as well as a degree in Marketing/Economics from Quinnipiac University.  Mr. Switz also serves on the Board of Directors for Broadcom Corporation, GT Advanced Technologies and Leap Wireless International, Inc.  He has served on our Board of Directors since 2006.



There are no family relationships between any of our directors or executive officers.












