Item 1. Business.



The Cooper Companies, Inc. (Cooper, we or the Company), a Delaware corporation organized in 1980, is a global medical device company publicly traded on the NYSE Euronext (NYSE: COO). Cooper is dedicated to being A Quality of Life CompanyTMwith a focus on shareholder value. Cooper operates through two business units, CooperVision, Inc. and CooperSurgical, Inc.



CooperVision is a global manufacturer providing products for contact lens wearers. CooperVision develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of single-use, two-week and monthly contact lenses, featuring advanced materials and optics. CooperVision's products are designed to solve vision challenges such as astigmatism, presbyopia and ocular dryness; with a broad collection of spherical, toric and multifocal contact lenses. CooperVision's products are primarily manufactured at its facilities located in Hampshire, United Kingdom, Juana Diaz, Puerto Rico, Budapest, Hungary and Scottsville, New York. CooperVision distributes products from West Henrietta, New York, Fareham, United Kingdom, Liege, Belgium, and various smaller international distribution facilities.



CooperSurgical focuses on supplying women's health clinicians with products and treatment options to improve the delivery of healthcare to women. CooperSurgical's primary objectives include internal growth and growth through acquisitions to expand its core businesses and the introduction of advanced technology-based products to aid clinicians in the management and treatment of commonly seen conditions. CooperSurgical customers are healthcare professionals and institutions providing care to and for women. CooperSurgical products support the point of healthcare delivery in the hospital, clinician's office and fertility clinics. CooperSurgical's major manufacturing and distribution facilities are located in Trumbull, Connecticut, Malov, Denmark, Pasadena, California, Stafford, Texas, and Berlin, Germany.



CooperVision and CooperSurgical each operate in highly competitive environments. Competition in the medical device industry involves the search for technological and therapeutic innovations. Both of Cooper's businesses compete primarily on the basis of product quality and differentiation, technological benefit, service and reliability.



COOPERVISION



CooperVision competes in the worldwide soft contact lens market and services three primary regions: the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific. The contact lens market has two major product categories:



•Spherical lenses including lenses that correct near- and farsightedness uncomplicated by more complex visual defects.



•Toric and multifocal lenses including lenses that, in addition to correcting near- and farsightedness, address more complex visual defects such as astigmatism and presbyopia by adding optical properties of cylinder and axis, which correct for irregularities in the shape of the cornea.



In order to achieve comfortable and healthy contact lens wear, products are sold with recommended replacement schedules, often defined as modalities, with the primary modalities being single-use, two-week and monthly.



CooperVision offers spherical, aspherical, toric, multifocal and toric multifocal lens products in most modalities. We believe that in order to compete successfully in the numerous niches of the contact lens market, companies must offer differentiated products that are priced competitively and manufactured








THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



efficiently. CooperVision believes that it is the only contact lens manufacturer to use three different manufacturing processes to produce its lenses: lathing, cast molding and FIPS™, a cost-effective combination of lathing and molding. The clariti®manufacturing platform may continue to add greater flexibility to the manufacture of our product offerings. We believe that this manufacturing flexibility allows CooperVision to compete in its markets by:



•Producing high, medium and low volumes of lenses made with a variety of materials for a broader range of market niches: single-use, two-week, monthly and quarterly disposable sphere, toric and multifocal lenses and custom toric lenses for patients with a high degree of astigmatism.



•Offering a wide range of lens parameters, leading to a higher rate of successful fitting for practitioners and better visual acuity for patients.



Sales of contact lenses utilizing silicone hydrogel materials continue to grow and this product material represents about half of the industry. Silicone hydrogel materials supply a higher level of oxygen to the cornea, as measured by the transmissibility of oxygen through a given thickness of material, or “dk/t,” than traditional hydrogel lenses. We believe our ability to compete successfully with a full range of silicone hydrogel products is an important factor to achieving success in our business. Silicone hydrogel lenses now represent a significant portion of CooperVision's contact lens sales and our Biofinity®brand is CooperVision's leading product line. Under the Biofinity brand, CooperVision markets monthly silicone hydrogel spherical, toric and multifocal lens products.

CooperVision markets single-use spherical, toric and multifocal lenses under our clariti 1day brand and a single-use silicone hydrogel spherical lens under MyDay®. We believe that the global market for single-use contact lenses will continue to grow and that competitive silicone hydrogel single-use lens products represent an opportunity for our business. We compete with clariti and MyDay, our single-use silicone hydrogel lenses, and our Proclear 1 Day products. Our clariti 1day brand provides the only single-use silicone hydrogel lenses in the marketplace with a complete line of spherical, toric and multifocal contact lenses.



CooperVision's Proclear line of spherical, toric and multifocal lenses are manufactured with omafilcon, a material that incorporates Phosphorylcholine (PC) Technology™ that helps enhance tissue-device compatibility. Mild discomfort relating to dryness during lens wear is a condition that often causes patients to discontinue contact lens wear and Proclear lenses are the only lenses with FDA clearance for the claim "… may provide improved comfort for contact lens wearers who experience mild discomfort or symptoms relating to dryness during lens wear."



In addition to its PC Technology™ and silicone hydrogel product offerings, CooperVision competes in the contact lens market with our traditional hydrogel products.



Contact Lens Product Sales



Spheres:Net sales of CooperVision's spherical lenses represented 55 percent of CooperVision's net sales in fiscal 2015 including net sales of single-use spherical lens that represented 24 percent of net sales in the fiscal year.



Toric and Multifocal:Net sales of CooperVision's toric lenses represented 30 percent of CooperVision's net sales in fiscal 2015. Net sales of multifocal lenses represented 11 percent of net sales in the fiscal year.



Proclear:Net sales of CooperVision's PC Technology spherical, toric and multifocal products, including Proclear 1 Day sphere and multifocal products, represented 21 percent of CooperVision's net sales in fiscal 2015.








THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES





Silicone Hydrogel:CooperVision's silicone hydrogel spherical, toric and multifocal lens products, including clariti and MyDay products, represented 55 percent of CooperVision's net sales in fiscal 2015.



CooperVision Competition



The contact lens market is highly competitive. CooperVision's three largest competitors in the worldwide market and its primary competitors in the spherical, toric and multifocal lens categories of that market are Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc., CIBA Vision owned by Novartis AG and Bausch & Lomb Incorporated owned by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc.



Over the past decade, the contact lens industry has experienced a global shift toward silicone hydrogel lenses that now represent approximately 50% of the global contact lens market. CooperVision competes in the silicone hydrogel segment of the market with our Biofinity monthly spherical, toric and multifocal lenses, Avaira®two-week spherical and toric lenses, clariti 1day brand of single-use sphere, toric and multifocal lenses, and MyDay single-use spherical lenses. The clariti 1day and MyDay brands of single-use contact lenses provides CooperVision with the broadest product portfolio in the single-use silicone hydrogel market.



In the toric lens market, a similar shift toward silicone hydrogel lenses has occurred, but we believe that lens manufacturers also continue to compete to provide the highest possible level of visual acuity and patient satisfaction by offering a wide range of lens parameters, superior wearing comfort and a high level of customer service, both for patients and contact lens practitioners. CooperVision competes based on the fact that its three manufacturing processes, including the clariti manufacturing platform recently acquired with Sauflon, allows a broad range of toric lens parameters, which we believe provides wide choices for patient and practitioner and a high level of visual acuity. We also compete based on our customer and professional services.



CooperVision's primary competitors in the contact lens business have greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes. CooperVision seeks to offer a high level of customer service through its direct sales organizations around the world and through telephone sales and technical service representatives who consult with eye care professionals about the use of our lens products.



CooperVision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and with refractive surgical procedures that correct visual defects. CooperVision believes that there are opportunities for contact lenses to gain market share, particularly in markets where the penetration of contact lenses in the vision correction market is low. CooperVision also believes that laser vision correction is not a significant threat to its sales of contact lenses based on the growth of the contact lens market over the past decade.



COOPERSURGICAL



CooperSurgical offers a broad array of products used in the care and treatment of women. The Company participates in the women's healthcare market seeking to offer quality products, innovative technologies and superior service to clinicians worldwide. CooperSurgical collaborates with clinicians to identify products and new technologies from disposable products to sophisticated instruments and equipment. The result is a broad portfolio of products that are intended to aid in the delivery of improved clinical outcomes that healthcare professionals use routinely in the diagnosis and treatment of a wide spectrum of women's health issues.










THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Since its inception in 1990, CooperSurgical has established its market presence and distribution system by developing products and acquiring products and companies that complement its business model.



CooperSurgical competes in the global in-vitro fertilization (IVF) market with a product portfolio of IVF media and assisted reproductive technology solutions designed to enhance the work of fertility professionals to the benefit of families. For the IVF market, CooperSurgical is focused on the objectives of internal growth and growth through acquisitions. In August 2015, CooperSurgical expanded its presence in the fertility market with the acquisition of Reprogenetics, a genetics laboratory specializing in preimplantation genetic screening (PGS) and preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) used during the IVF process.



Market for Women's Healthcare



CooperSurgical participates in the market for women's healthcare with its diversified product lines in three major categories based on the point of healthcare delivery: hospitals and surgical centers, obstetricians and gynecologists (ob/gyns) medical offices and fertility clinics.



CooperSurgical expects patient visits to ob/gyns in the United States to increase over the next decade. Driving this growth is a steady number of reproductive age women with increasing fertility issues, a large and stable middle-aged population and a growing population of women over the age of 65 according to United States Census estimates. CooperSurgical expects growth in fertility treatments as more women choose to delay childbearing to the mid-thirties and beyond. Office visit activity related to menopause, including abnormal bleeding, incontinence and osteoporosis, are also expected to increase slightly over the next decade. CooperSurgical believes that past trends reflected women visiting clinicians primarily during their reproductive years. With new treatment options now available and a more educated population, CooperSurgical expects the relationship between the patient and clinician will continue into the middle years and later.



Another trend in the market for women's healthcare includes the migration of ob/gyn clinicians away from private practice ownership and toward aligning with group practices or employment with hospitals and healthcare systems. This trend includes the increasing influence of supply chain controls, such as value analysis committees, on product evaluation and procurement. CooperSurgical believes that the market factors that are driving this trend will continue in the near term.



The response in the United States market to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (Affordable Care Act or ACA) includes the development of new models of healthcare delivery. One goal of these new models is to deliver more cost-effective healthcare including a trend to move treatment out of hospitals and surgery centers and into the office setting without compromising care. We expect this trend to continue in the near term.



While general medical practitioners play an important role in women's primary care, the ob/gyn specialist is the primary market for our medical devices.



Some significant features of this market are:



•Patient visits are for annual checkups, cancer screening, menstrual disorders, vaginitis (inflammation of vaginal tissue), treatment of abnormal Pap smears, osteoporosis (reduction in bone mass) and the management of menopause, pregnancy and reproductive management.



•We believe that approximately one-third of the office visits to ob/gyns are patients seeking diagnosis and treatment for the symptoms of abnormal uterine bleeding.








THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES





•Ob/gyns traditionally provide the initial evaluation for women and their partners who seek infertility assistance. Ovulatory drugs and intrauterine insemination (IUI) are common treatments in these cases.



•IVF is performed by reproductive endocrinologists, a subgroup of ob/gyns, along with partner embryologists.



•Osteoporosis and incontinence have become frequent diagnoses as the female population ages. Early identification and treatment of these conditions will both improve women's health and help reduce overall costs of treatment.



•Sterilization is a frequently performed procedure.



•Hysterectomy is one of the most commonly performed surgical procedures.



•Hysteroscopy is commonly used in the evaluation of abnormal uterine bleeding.



•The trend to move hospital-based procedures to an office or clinical setting is continuing as a method to reduce cost to the healthcare system while maintaining positive clinical outcomes.



Women's Healthcare Product Sales



Net sales of CooperSurgical products used in office and surgical procedures represented 66% of CooperSurgical's net sales in fiscal 2015. Net sales of fertility products represented 34% of CooperSurgical's net sales in fiscal 2015.



CooperSurgical Competition



CooperSurgical focuses on selected segments of the women's healthcare market, supplying diagnostic products and surgical instruments and accessories. In some instances, CooperSurgical offers all of the items needed for a complete procedure. CooperSurgical believes that opportunities exist for continued market consolidation of smaller technology-driven firms that generally offer only one or two product lines. Most are privately owned or divisions of public companies including some owned by companies with greater financial resources than Cooper.



Competitive factors in these segments include technological and scientific advances, product quality, price, customer service and effective communication of product information to physicians, fertility clinics and hospitals. CooperSurgical competes based on our sales and marketing expertise and the technological advantages of our products. CooperSurgical's strategy includes developing and acquiring new products, including those used in new medical procedures. As CooperSurgical expands its product line, we also offer educational programs for medical professionals in the appropriate use of our products.



CooperSurgical is seeking to expand our presence in the significantly larger hospital and outpatient surgical procedure segment of the market that is at present dominated by bigger competitors such as Johnson & Johnson's Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Boston Scientific, Olympus and Covidien. These competitors have well-established positions within the operating room environment. CooperSurgical intends to leverage our relationship with gynecologic surgeons and focus on devices specific to gynecologic surgery to facilitate our expansion within the surgical segment of the market.










THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CooperSurgical also competes in the fertility category of the women's healthcare market. We have broad product offerings for fertility evaluations and IVF procedures by ob/gyns, reproductive endocrinologists and embryologists. These include products for use by the ob/gyns in their offices for initial evaluations with office based hysteroscopy and first line treatments such as intrauterine insemination. For use in fertility clinics our products include media, micro tools and lab equipment; and to improve IVF outcomes we offer testing services intended to increase implantation rates and decrease miscarriages.



CooperSurgical intends to leverage our relationship with fertility clinics to expand our presence in the fertility market against competitors in the media and microtools categories that include Vitrolife, Cook, Irvine Scientific and Life Global and competitors in genetic testing that include Genesis Genetics, Good Start Genetics and Igenomix.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



Cooper employs approximately 215 people in our research and development and manufacturing engineering departments. CooperVision product development and clinical research is supported by internal and external specialists in lens design, formulation science, polymer chemistry, clinical trials, microbiology and biochemistry. CooperVision's research and development activities primarily include programs to develop new contact lens designs along with improving formulations and manufacturing processes.



CooperSurgical conducts research and development in-house and also has consulting agreements with external specialists. CooperSurgical's research and development activities include the design and improvement of surgical procedure devices, the advancement and expansion of CooperSurgical's portfolio of assisted reproductive technology products, as well as products within the general obstetrics and gynecology offerings.



Cooper-sponsored research and development expenditures represented 4% of net sales during fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, and were $69.6 million, $66.3 million and $58.8 million, respectively. During fiscal 2015, CooperVision represented 79 percent and CooperSurgical represented 21 percent of the total research and development expenses, the same as fiscal 2014. We did not participate in any customer-sponsored research and development programs during fiscal 2013 - 2015.



GOVERNMENT REGULATION



Medical Device Regulation



Our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States and other regulatory bodies abroad. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and FDA regulations govern, among other things, medical device design and development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, premarket clearance or approval, advertising and promotion, and sales and distribution. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to distribute commercially in the United States will require either prior notice to the FDA requesting clearance for commercial distribution under Section 510(k) of the FDCA, or premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA. A majority of the medical devices we currently market have received FDA clearance through the 510(k) process or approval through the PMA process. Because we cannot be assured that any new products we develop, or any product enhancements, will be exempt from the premarket clearance or approval requirements or will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process rather than the PMA process,  significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements may occur.










THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Device Classification



The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes - Class I, II or III - depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure its safety and effectiveness. Both CooperVision and CooperSurgical develop and market medical devices under different levels of FDA regulation depending on the classification of the device. Class III devices, such as flexible and extended wear contact lenses, require extensive premarket testing and approval, while Class I and II devices require lower levels of regulation. The majority of CooperSurgical's products are Class II devices.



Class I devices are those for which safety and effectiveness can be assured by adherence to the FDA's general regulatory controls for medical devices, which include compliance with the applicable portions of the FDA's Quality System Regulation, facility registration and product listing, reporting of adverse medical events, and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling, advertising, and promotional materials (General Controls). Some Class I devices also require premarket clearance by the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process described below.



Class II devices are subject to the FDA's General Controls, and any other special controls as deemed necessary by the FDA to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device, such as performance standards, post-market surveillance, FDA guidelines or particularized labeling requirements. Premarket review and clearance by the FDA for Class II devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification procedure. Pursuant to the Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002 (MDUFMA), unless a specific exemption applies, 510(k) premarket notification submissions are subject to user fees. Certain Class II devices are exempt from this premarket review process.



Class III devices are those devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or certain implantable devices, or which have a new intended use, or use advanced technology that is not substantially equivalent to that of a legally marketed device. The safety and effectiveness of Class III devices cannot be assured solely by the General Controls and other special controls such as those listed above. These devices almost always require formal clinical studies to demonstrate safety and effectiveness and must be approved through the PMA process described below. PMA applications (and supplemental PMA applications) are subject to significantly higher user fees under MDUFMA than are 510(k) premarket notifications.



510(k) Clearance Pathway



When we are required to obtain a 510(k) clearance for a device that we wish to market, we must submit a premarket notification to the FDA demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device or a device that was in commercial distribution in the United States before May 28, 1976, for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of PMA applications. The FDA aims to respond to a 510(k) premarket notification within 90 days of submission of the notification, but as a practical matter, clearance can take significantly longer. If the FDA determines that the device is not substantially equivalent to a previously-cleared device, the FDA will not clear the device. Although many 510(k) pre-market notifications are cleared without clinical data, in some cases, the FDA requires significant clinical data to support substantial equivalence. In reviewing a pre-market notification, the FDA may request additional information, including clinical data, which may significantly prolong the review process.



After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that changes its intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance or could require premarket approval. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination initially, but the FDA can review any such decision and can disagree with a manufacturer's determination. If the FDA disagrees with a








THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



manufacturer's determination that a new clearance or approval is not required for a particular modification, the FDA can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or premarket approval is obtained. In these circumstances, a manufacturer also may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. We have made and plan to continue to make additional product enhancements and modifications to our devices that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearances.



Premarket Approval Pathway



A PMA application must be submitted if the device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) premarket notification procedures. The PMA process is much more demanding than the 510(k) premarket notification process. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trials, manufacturing and labeling to demonstrate to the FDA's satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use.



After a PMA application is complete, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the submitted information. The FDA, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review an accepted PMA application, although the review generally occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up to several years. During this review period, the FDA may request additional information, including clinical data, or clarification of information already provided. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. In addition, the FDA will conduct a preapproval inspection of the manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with the Quality System Regulation (QSR), which requires manufacturers to implement and follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures in the device design and manufacturing process.



The FDA may approve a PMA application with post-approval conditions intended to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale and distribution and collection of long-term follow-up data from patients in the clinical study that supported approval. Failure to comply with the conditions of approval can result in materially adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the approval. New PMA applications or PMA application supplements are required for significant modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling and design of a device that is approved through the premarket approval process. Premarket approval supplements often require submission of the same type of information as a premarket approval application, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the original premarket approval application, and may not require as extensive clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel.



Clinical Trials



A clinical trial is almost always required to support a PMA application and is sometimes required for a 510(k) premarket notification. These trials generally require submission of an application for an investigational device exemption (IDE) to the FDA. The IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that the potential benefits of testing the device in humans and the importance of the knowledge to be gained outweighs the risksto human subjects from the proposed investigation that the testing protocol is scientifically sound and there is reason to believe that the device as proposed for use will be effective. The IDE application must be approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients, unless the product is deemed a non-significant risk device and eligible for more abbreviated investigational device exemption requirements. Clinical trials for a significant risk device may begin once the IDE application is approved by both the FDA and the appropriate institutional review boards at the clinical trial sites. There can be no assurance that submission of an IDE will result in the ability to








THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



commence clinical trials. Additionally, after a trial begins, the FDA may place it on hold or terminate it if, among other reasons, it concludes that the clinical subjects are exposed to unacceptable health risks that outweigh the benefits of participation in the study. During a study, we are required to comply with the FDA's IDE requirements for investigator selection, trial monitoring, reporting, record keeping and prohibitions on the promotion of investigational devices or making safety or efficacy claims for them. We are also responsible for the appropriate labeling and distribution of investigational devices. All of Cooper's currently marketed products have been cleared by all appropriate regulatory agencies, and Cooper has no product currently being marketed under an IDE.



Continuing FDA Regulation



After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: establishment registration and device listing with the FDA; the QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, production, control, complaint handling, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for uncleared or  unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on labeling, advertising and promotion; new FDA unique device identifier regulations that requires changes to labeling and packaging; the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires the reporting of certain payments to health care practitioners; and medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. The FDA has broad post-market and regulatory enforcement powers. We are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with the QSR and other regulations.

Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include, but may not be limited to, any of the following sanctions or consequences: warning letters or untitled letters; fines, injunctions and civil penalties; recall, seizure or import holds of our products; operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production; refusing to issue certificates to foreign governments needed to export products for sale in other countries; refusing our request for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new or modified products; withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that are already granted; and criminal prosecution.



Foreign Regulation



Health authorities in foreign countries regulate Cooper's clinical trials and medical device sales. The regulations vary widely from country to country. Even if the FDA has cleared or approved a product in the United States, the regulatory agencies in other countries must approve new products before they may be marketed there. The time required to obtain approval in another country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA clearance or approval, and the requirements may differ. There is a trend towards harmonization of quality system standards among the European Union, United States, Canada and various other industrialized countries. Japan has one of the most rigorous regulatory systems in the world and requires in-country clinical trials. The Japanese quality and regulatory standards remain stringent even with the more recent harmonization efforts and updated Japanese regulations. China is also updating its regulations and is requiring rigorous in-country product testing.



These regulatory procedures require a considerable investment in time and resources and usually result in a substantial delay between new product development and marketing. If the Company does not maintain compliance with regulatory standards or if problems occur after marketing, product approval may be withdrawn.










THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



In addition to FDA regulatory requirements, Cooper also maintains ISO 13485 certification and CE mark approvals for its products. A CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain standards and compliance with applicable European medical device requirements. These quality programs and approvals are required by the European Medical Device Directive and must be maintained for all products intended to be sold in the European market. The ISO 13485 Quality Measurement System registration is now also required for registration of products in Asia Pacific and Latin American countries. In order to maintain these quality benchmarks, the Company is subjected to rigorous biannual reassessment audits of its quality systems and procedures.



Other Health Care Regulation



We may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws, and laws pertaining to health information privacy and security. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs and TRICARE. Similarly if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be noncompliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. While we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, as applicable to us, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws.



The impact to our businesses of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) provisions related to coverage expansion, payment reforms and delivery system changes remains uncertain. The ACA imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax, with limited exceptions, on any entity that manufactures or imports Class I, II and III medical devices offered for sale in the United States that began on January 1, 2013. CooperVision's products are not subject to this tax because contact lenses are excluded from the tax. However, United States sales of CooperSurgical's products are subject to this tax which is recorded in selling, general and administrative expense on our Statement of Income.



In addition, the federal government, as part of the ACA, as well as certain state governments have enacted laws aimed at increasing transparency in relationships between medical device companies and healthcare professionals. We are now required by law to report annually many types of payments made and items of value provided to licensed healthcare professionals. In addition, certain foreign jurisdictions have adopted, or are currently acting to implement, similar laws. Failure to adhere to our policies, comply with required laws or implement adequate policies and practices to address changes to legal and regulatory requirements could result in sanctions such as fines, injunctions and civil penalties.



RAW MATERIALS



CooperVision's raw materials primarily consist of various chemicals and packaging materials and are generally available from more than one source. However, CooperVision relies on sole suppliers for certain raw materials used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products. If current raw material suppliers fail to supply sufficient materials on a timely basis, or at all for any reason, we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products.



Raw materials used by CooperSurgical are generally available from more than one source. However, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice.










THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION



CooperVision markets our products in the United States through our field sales representatives, who call on optometrists, ophthalmologists, opticians, optical chains and distributors. CooperVision augments our United States sales and marketing efforts with e-commerce, telemarketing, social media and advertising in professional journals. In the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions, CooperVision primarily markets our products through our field sales representatives. In other countries, CooperVision uses distributors and has given some of them the exclusive right to market our products within specific geographic areas.



CooperSurgical's products are marketed by a network of dedicated field sales representatives, independent agents and distributors. In the United States, CooperSurgical augments our sales and marketing activities by participating in national and regional industry tradeshows, professional educational programs and internet promotions including e-commerce, social media and collaborative efforts with professional organizations, telemarketing, direct mail and advertising in professional journals. Fertility products are marketed globally through our field sales representatives and distributors.



PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS



Cooper owns or licenses a variety of domestic and foreign patents, which, in total, are material to our overall business. The names of certain of Cooper's products are protected by trademark registrations in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and, in some cases, also in foreign trademark offices. Applications are pending for additional trademark and patent registrations. Cooper intends to protect our intellectual property rights aggressively.



No individual patent or license is material to the Company or either of our principal business units other than our license agreement effective as of November 19, 2007, between CooperVision and CIBA Vision AG and CIBA Vision Corporation. This license relates to patents covering CooperVision's silicone hydrogel contact lens products. Our royalty obligations under this license agreement extend until the expiration of the applicable patent rights, which we believe occurred in September 2014 in the United States and, we believe will occur in March 2016 outside of the United States.



In addition to trademarks and patent licenses, we own certain trade secrets, copyrights, know-how and other intellectual property.



DEPENDENCE ON CUSTOMERS



Neither of our business units depends to any material extent on any one customer or any one affiliated group of customers.



GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS



Neither of our business units is materially subject to profit renegotiation or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the United States government.



BACKLOG



Backlog is not a material factor in either of Cooper's business units.










THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



SEASONALITY



CooperVision's contact lens sales in its fiscal first quarter, which runs from November 1 through January 31, are typically lower than subsequent quarters, as patient traffic to practitioners' offices is relatively light during the holiday season.



COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS



Federal, state and local provisions that regulate the discharge of materials into the environment, or relate to the protection of the environment, do not currently materially affect Cooper's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT BUSINESS SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES



The information required by this item is included in "Business Segment Information" of our notes to consolidated financial statements and "Risk Factors" as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015.



EMPLOYEES



OnOctober 31, 2015, Cooper had approximately 10,200 employees. We believe that relations with our employees are good.



NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE CERTIFICATION



We submitted our 2015 annual Section 12(a) CEO certification with the New York Stock Exchange. The certification was not qualified in any respect. Additionally, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2015, the CEO and CFO certifications required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



The Cooper Companies, Inc. Internet address is http://www.coopercos.com. The information on the Company's Website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on our Website as soon as reasonably practicable. The public may read and copy these materials at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20002. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a Website that contains such reports, proxy and information statements and other information whose Internet address is http://www.sec.gov. The Company's Corporate Governance Principles, Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and charters of each standing committee of the Board of Directors are also posted on the Company's Website.










THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



