Item 1. Business.



The Cooper Companies, Inc. (Cooper or the Company), a Delaware corporation
organized in 1980, is a global medical products company that serves the specialty healthcare market through its two business units, CooperVision, Inc. (CVI) and CooperSurgical, Inc. (CSI).



CVI develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of contact lenses for the worldwide vision correction market. Dedicated to
enhancing the contact lens experience for practitioners and patients, CVI specializes in lenses for astigmatism, presbyopia and ocular dryness. CVI is a leading manufacturer of toric lenses, which correct astigmatism, multifocal lenses for
presbyopia (blurring near vision due to advancing age) and spherical lenses that correct the most common visual defects. CVI’s products are primarily manufactured at its facilities located in the United Kingdom, Puerto Rico and New York. CVI
distributes products from Rochester, New York, Fareham, United Kingdom, Liege, Belgium, and various smaller international distribution facilities.



CSI develops, manufactures and markets medical devices, diagnostic products and surgical instruments and accessories used primarily by gynecologists and
obstetricians. CSI’s major manufacturing and distribution facilities are located in Trumbull, Connecticut, Pasadena, California, Stafford, Texas, and Berlin, Germany.



CVI and CSI each operate in highly competitive environments. Competition in
the medical device industry involves the search for technological and therapeutic innovations. Both of Cooper’s businesses compete primarily on the basis of product quality and differentiation, technological benefit, service and reliability.



COOPERVISION



CVI competes in the worldwide soft contact lens market and services three
primary regions: the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific. The contact lens market has two major product categories:



•Spherical lenses including lenses that correct near- and farsightedness uncomplicated by more complex visual defects.



•Toric and multifocal lenses including lenses that address more complex visual defects such as astigmatism and presbyopia in addition to correcting
near- and farsightedness.



In order to achieve
comfortable and healthy contact lens wear, products are sold with recommended replacement schedules, otherwise defined as modalities, with the primary modalities being single-use, two-week and monthly.



CVI offers spherical, aspherical, toric, multifocal and toric multifocal lens
products in all primary modalities. We believe that in order to compete successfully in the numerous niches of the contact lens market, companies must offer differentiated products that are priced competitively and manufactured efficiently. CVI
believes that it is the only contact lens manufacturer to use three different manufacturing processes to produce its lenses: lathing, cast molding and FIPS™, a cost-effective combination of lathing and molding. This manufacturing flexibility
allows us to compete in our markets by:



•Producing high, medium and low volumes of lenses made with a variety of materials for a broader range of market niches: single-use, two-week, monthly
and quarterly disposable sphere and toric lenses and custom toric lenses for patients with a high degree of astigmatism.







•Offering a wide range of lens parameters, leading to a higher successful fitting rate for practitioners and better visual acuity for patients.



In addition, CVI lenses
compete based on providing superior comfort through the use of lens edge technology. CVI lenses have a round to partial round edge which we believe increases comfort. Cooper’s Proclear®line of spherical, toric and multifocal lenses are manufactured with omafilcon A, a material that incorporates a proprietary Phosphorylcholine (PC) Technology™
that helps enhance tissue-device compatibility. Proclear lenses are the only lenses with FDA clearance for the claim “… may provide improved comfort for contact lens wearers who experience mild discomfort or symptoms relating to dryness
during lens wear.” Mild discomfort relating to dryness during lens wear is a condition that often causes patients to discontinue contact lens wear.



The contact lens market has in recent years experienced a shift toward contact lenses made from silicone hydrogel materials. Silicone
hydrogel materials supply a higher level of oxygen to the cornea, as measured by the transmissibility of oxygen through a given thickness of material, or “dk/t,” than traditional hydrogel lenses. The use of these materials in contact
lenses has grown significantly, and this material is a major product material in the industry. CVI has launched the third generation of silicone hydrogel spherical contact lens products under our brands Biofinity®and Avaira®in the United States, Europe and Asia Pacific, excluding Japan. We also launched a monthly silicone hydrogel toric lens under the Biofinity brand in fiscal 2009. In
fiscal 2010, we launched two silicone hydrogel lenses: the Biofinity multifocal lens and the Avaira toric lens.



In addition to its silicone hydrogel and PC Technology™ product offerings, CVI competes in the contact lens market with its single-use products and with traditional hydrogel products.



Contact Lens Product Sales



Spheres:Net Sales of CVI’s spherical lenses, representing 61
percent of CVI’s soft lens net sales, grew 9 percent in the year ended October 31, 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009. Single-use sphere net sales, which grew 12 percent, represented 22 percent of CVI’s soft lens net sales.



Toric and Multifocal:CVI’s toric lens net sales grew
13 percent in fiscal 2010, representing 31 percent of CVI’s soft lens net sales as compared to fiscal 2009. Multifocal lens sales grew only 1 percent in fiscal 2010. This was primarily due to a trend in the market toward silicone hydrogel
multifocal lenses and CVI’s late entry with Biofinity multifocal, our silicone hydrogel offering.



Proclear:Net sales of CVI’s PC Technology products – which consist of spherical, toric and multifocal products,
including Biomedics®XC and Proclear 1 Day – increased 9 percent in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal
2009 and represented 29 percent of CVI’s soft lens net sales. Proclear 1 Day, CVI’s Proclear single-use offering, grew 58 percent from fiscal 2009.



Silicone Hydrogel:CVI’s silicone hydrogel spherical, toric and multifocal lens products grew 108 percent in fiscal 2010 as compared to
fiscal 2009 and represented 24 percent of CVI’s soft lens net sales as compared to 12 percent in fiscal 2009.



Contact Lens Product Sales by Geographic Region



Based on our knowledge of the contact lens market and our review of independent market data, we estimate the worldwide market for contact lenses by modality is 34 percent single-use, 36 percent







two-week and 30 percent monthly. We estimate that the Americas market, representing about 38 percent of the worldwide soft contact lens market, by modality is 13 percent single-use, 58 percent
two-week and 29 percent monthly; EMEA, representing about 31 percent of the worldwide market, is 38 percent single-use, 12 percent two-week and 50 percent monthly; and Asia Pacific, representing about 31 percent of the worldwide market, is 55
percent single-use, 33 percent two-week and 12 percent monthly.



CVI Competition



The contact lens market is highly competitive. CVI’s three largest competitors in the worldwide market and its primary competitors in the spherical, toric and multifocal lens categories of that
market are Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc., CIBA Vision (owned by Novartis AG) and Bausch & Lomb Incorporated.



Recent trends in marketing spherical lenses include a shift toward silicone hydrogel lenses, primarily in the United States, Europe and Japan, and toward
single-use lenses. CVI’s primary competitors currently control the majority of the silicone hydrogel segment of the market. CVI was late in entering the silicone hydrogel segment of the market but has increased sales of its monthly and two-week
toric and spherical lens offerings as well as the recently introduced monthly multifocal lens. In Japan, CVI has recently received regulatory approval to sell a silicone hydrogel product.



In the toric lens market, we believe that lens manufacturers compete to provide the highest possible level of visual acuity and
patient satisfaction by offering a wide range of lens parameters, superior wearing comfort and a high level of customer service, both for patients and contact lens practitioners. CVI competes based on its three manufacturing processes yielding wider
ranges of toric lens parameters, providing wide choices for patient and practitioner and superior visual acuity, as well as by offering excellent customer service, including high standards of on-time product delivery.



CVI’s major competitors have greater financial resources and larger
research and development budgets and sales forces. CVI seeks to offer a high level of customer service through its direct sales organizations around the world and through telephone sales and technical service representatives who consult with eye
care professionals about the use of the Company’s lens products.



CVI also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and with refractive surgical procedures that correct visual defects. CVI believes that its contact lenses will continue to compete favorably against
eyeglasses, particularly in markets where the penetration of contact lenses in the vision correction market is low, offering lens manufacturers an opportunity to gain market share. CVI also believes that laser vision correction is not a significant
threat to its sales of contact lenses.



COOPERSURGICAL



Since its beginning in 1990, CSI has sought to be a leader
in providing medical device products to the obstetrics and gynecology medical specialty. Historically, many small medical device companies have supplied the women’s healthcare market with a wide range of products through a fragmented
distribution system. CSI’s strategy continues to be to identify and acquire selected companies and product lines that will improve its existing market position or serve new clinical areas. CSI has grown to $188.0 million in net sales both
organically and through a series of more than 25 acquisitions.







Market for Women’s Healthcare



CSI participates in the market for women’s healthcare with its diversified product lines of over 600 products. These
products are in three major categories: ob/gyn medical offices, surgical procedures, including hospitals, clinics and surgical centers, and fertility.



Based on United States Census estimates, CSI expects patient visits to United States obstetricians and gynecologists (ob/gyns) to increase over the next
decade. Driving this growth is an increasing base of reproductive age women, a large and stable middle-aged population and a rapidly growing population of women over the age of 65. CSI believes that the resurgence of population growth in the
reproductive age group will result in increased office visits related to birth control and childbearing. CSI expects growth in fertility treatments as more women choose to delay childbearing to the mid-thirties and beyond. Office visit activity
related to menopausal problems, including abnormal bleeding, incontinence and osteoporosis, are also expected to increase slightly over the next decade. CSI believes that in the past clinicians primarily saw women only during their reproductive
years. Now, with new treatment options available and a more educated population, CSI expects the relationship between the patient and clinician will continue into the middle years and later.



While general medical practitioners play an important role in women’s primary care, the ob/gyn specialist is the primary
market for associated medical devices.



Some significant features of this market are:



•Patient visits are for annual checkups, cancer screening, menstrual disorders, vaginitis (inflammation of vaginal tissue), treatment of abnormal Pap
smears, osteoporosis (reduction in bone mass) and the management of menopause, pregnancy and reproductive management.



•Ob/gyns traditionally provide the initial evaluation for women and their partners who seek infertility assistance. Ovulatory drugs and intrauterine
insemination (IUI) are common treatments of these cases along with embryo transfer procedures.



•Osteoporosis and incontinence have become frequent diagnoses as the female population ages. Early identification and treatment of these conditions will
both improve women’s health and help reduce overall costs of treatment.



•Sterilization is a frequently performed surgical procedure.



•Hysterectomy, one of the most commonly performed surgical procedures, is increasingly performed using a laparoscopic approach.



•The trend to move hospital-based procedures to an office setting is continuing as seen with the global endometrial ablation procedure.



CSI’s Fiscal 2010 Net Sales Growth



During fiscal 2010, CSI’s net sales grew 10 percent to
$188.0 million from $170.9 million in fiscal 2009, representing 16 percent of Cooper’s net sales in both periods. CSI’s organic growth was 6 percent. Sales of products used in surgical procedures grew 18 percent and represented 33
percent of CSI’s total net sales as compared to 31 percent in fiscal 2009.







CSI Competition



CSI focuses on selected segments of the women’s healthcare market,
supplying diagnostic products and surgical instruments and accessories. In some instances, CSI offers all of the items needed for a complete procedure. CSI believes that opportunities exist for continued market consolidation of smaller
technology-driven firms that generally offer only one or two product lines. Most are privately owned or divisions of public companies including some owned by companies with greater financial resources than Cooper.



Competitive factors in these segments include technological and scientific
advances, product quality, price, customer service and effective communication of product information to physicians and hospitals. CSI competes based on its sales and marketing expertise and the technological advantages of its products. CSI’s
strategy includes developing and acquiring new products, including those used in new medical procedures. As CSI expands its product line, it also offers training for medical professionals in the appropriate use of its products.



CSI is seeking to expand its presence in the significantly larger hospital
and outpatient surgical procedure segment of the market that is at present dominated by bigger competitors such as Johnson & Johnson’s Ethicon Endo-Surgery and Ethicon Women’s Health and Urology companies, Boston Scientific, Gyrus
ACMI and Covidien. These competitors have well established positions within the operating room environment. CSI intends to leverage its relationship with gynecologic surgeons and focus on devices specific to gynecologic surgery to facilitate its
expansion within the surgical segment of the market.



RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT



Cooper employs 164 people in its research
and development and manufacturing engineering departments. Most of these employees are in CVI. CVI product development and clinical research is supported by internal and external specialists in lens design, formulation science, polymer chemistry,
clinical trials, microbiology and biochemistry. CVI’s research and development activities include programs to develop silicone hydrogel products, product lines utilizing PC Technology and expansion of single-use product lines.



CSI conducts research and development in-house and also has consulting
agreements with external surgical specialists. CSI’s fiscal 2010 research and development activities were for the upgrade and redesign of existing incontinence, assisted reproductive technology and uterine manipulation products.



Cooper-sponsored research and development expenditures during fiscal 2010,
2009 and 2008 were $35.3 million, $30.3 million and $35.5 million, respectively, net of acquired in-process research and development of $3.0 million in 2009. Net research and development expenditures represented 3 percent of net sales each
fiscal year. During fiscal 2010, CVI represented 85 percent and CSI represented 15 percent of the total research and development expenses. We did not participate in any customer-sponsored research and development programs.



GOVERNMENT REGULATION



Medical Device Regulation



Our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the
United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States and other regulatory bodies abroad. FDA regulations govern, among other things, medical device design and development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage,







recordkeeping, premarket clearance or approval, advertising and promotion, and sales and distribution. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to distribute commercially in the
United States will require either prior 510(k) clearance or prior premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA. A majority of the medical devices we currently market have received FDA clearance through the 510(k) process or approval through the PMA
process. Because we cannot be assured that any new products we develop, or any product enhancements, will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements may
occur.



Device Classification



The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes – Class I,
II or III – depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure its safety and effectiveness. Both CVI and CSI develop and market medical devices under different levels of FDA
regulation depending on the classification of the device. Class III devices, such as flexible and extended wear contact lenses, require extensive premarket testing and approval, while Class I and II devices require lower levels of regulation. The
majority of CSI’s products are Class II devices.



Class I
devices are those for which safety and effectiveness can be assured by adherence to the FDA’s general regulatory controls for medical devices, which include compliance with the applicable portions of the FDA’s Quality System Regulation,
facility registration and product listing, reporting of adverse medical events, and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling, advertising, and promotional materials (General Controls). Some Class I devices also require premarket clearance
by the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process described below.



Class II devices are subject to the FDA’s General Controls, and any other special controls as deemed necessary by the FDA to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device. Premarket review and
clearance by the FDA for Class II devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification procedure. Pursuant to the Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002 (MDUFMA), unless a specific exemption applies, 510(k) premarket
notification submissions are subject to user fees. Certain Class II devices are exempt from this premarket review process.



Class III devices are those devices which have a new intended use, or use advanced technology that is not substantially equivalent to that of a legally
marketed device. The safety and effectiveness of Class III devices cannot be assured solely by the General Controls and the other requirements described above. These devices almost always require formal clinical studies to demonstrate safety and
effectiveness and must be approved through the premarket approval process described below. Premarket approval applications (and supplemental premarket approval applications) are subject to significantly higher user fees under MDUFMA than are 510(k)
premarket notifications.



510(k) Clearance Pathway



When we are required to obtain a 510(k) clearance for a
device that we wish to market, we must submit a premarket notification to the FDA demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device or a device that was in commercial distribution before May 28,
1976, for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of premarket approval applications. By regulation, the FDA is required to respond to a 510(k) premarket notification within 90 days of submission of the notification. As a practical
matter, clearance can take significantly longer. If the FDA determines that the device, or its intended use, is not substantially equivalent to a previously-cleared device or use, the FDA will place the device, or the particular use of the device,
into Class III.







After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or
effectiveness, or that changes its intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance or could require premarket approval. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination initially, but the FDA can review any such decision and can
disagree with a manufacturer’s determination. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s determination that a new clearance or approval is not required for a particular modification, the FDA can require the manufacturer to cease marketing
and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or premarket approval is obtained. In these circumstances, a manufacturer also may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. We have made and plan to continue to make additional
product enhancements and modifications to our devices that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearances.



Premarket Approval Pathway



A PMA application must be submitted if the device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) premarket notification procedures. The PMA process is much more demanding than the 510(k) premarket notification
process. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trials, manufacturing and labeling to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the
device for its intended use.



After a PMA application is complete,
the FDA begins an in-depth review of the submitted information. The FDA, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review an accepted PMA application, although the review generally occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up
to several years. During this review period, the FDA may request additional information, including clinical data, or clarification of information already provided. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA may
be convened to review and evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. In addition, the FDA will conduct a preapproval inspection of the manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with the
Quality System Regulation (QSR). New PMA applications or PMA application supplements are required for significant modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling and design of a device that is approved through the premarket approval process.
Premarket approval supplements often require submission of the same type of information as a premarket approval application, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the original
premarket approval application, and may not require as extensive clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel.



Clinical Trials



A clinical trial is almost always required to support a PMA application and is sometimes required for a 510(k) premarket notification. These trials
generally require submission of an application for an investigational device exemption (IDE) to the FDA. The IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that the potential benefits of
testing the device in humans outweighs the risks and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. The IDE application must be approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients, unless the product is deemed a non-significant
risk device and eligible for more abbreviated investigational device exemption requirements. Clinical trials for a significant risk device may begin once the IDE application is approved by both the FDA and the appropriate institutional review boards
at the clinical trial sites. All of Cooper’s currently marketed products have been cleared by all appropriate regulatory agencies, and Cooper has no product currently being marketed under an IDE.







Continuing FDA Regulation



After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements
apply. These include: the QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for
unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious
injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. The FDA has broad post-market and regulatory enforcement powers. We are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA to
determine our compliance with the QSR and other regulations.



Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions:
fines, injunctions and civil penalties; recall, seizure or import holds of our products; operating restrictions, suspension of production; refusing our request for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products; withdrawing 510(k) clearance
or premarket approvals that are already granted and criminal prosecution.



Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, the FDA may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted.
Medical devices may be marketed only for the uses and indications for which they are cleared or approved. FDA regulations prohibit a manufacturer from promoting a device for an unapproved or “off-label” use. Failure to comply with this
prohibition on “off-label” promotion can result in enforcement action by the FDA, including, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil or criminal penalties.



Foreign Regulation



Health authorities in foreign countries regulate Cooper’s clinical
trials and medical device sales. The regulations vary widely from country to country. Even if the FDA has approved a product, the regulatory agencies in each country must approve new products before they may be marketed there. The worldwide Medical
Device regulations are increasing, with many countries becoming regulated for the first time. For example Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia are becoming regulated and follow the Global Harmonization Task force model for regulating medical devices.
These emerging regulated countries require the same rigorous safety data compiled in pre-clinical and clinical studies for the rest of the world. Japan has one of the most rigorous regulatory systems in the world and requires in-country clinical
trials. The Japanese quality and regulatory standards remain stringent even with the more recent harmonization efforts and updated Japanese regulations.



These regulatory procedures require a considerable investment in time and resources and usually result in a substantial delay between new product
development and marketing. If the Company does not maintain compliance with regulatory standards or if problems occur after marketing, product approval may be withdrawn.



In addition to FDA regulatory requirements, the Company also maintains ISO
13485 certification and CE mark approvals for its products. A CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain standards and compliance with applicable European medical device requirements. These quality programs and approvals are required
by the European Medical Device Directive and must be maintained for all products intended to be sold in the European market. The ISO 13485 Quality







Measurement System registration is now also required for registration of products in Asia Pacific and Latin American countries. In order to maintain these quality benchmarks, the Company is
subjected to rigorous biannual reassessment audits of its quality systems and procedures.



Other Health Care Regulation



We may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws, and laws pertaining to healthcare
privacy and security. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration
health programs and TRICARE. Similarly if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be noncompliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on
our business, financial conditions and results of operations. While we believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, as applicable to us, because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no
assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws.



RAW MATERIALS



CVI’s raw materials primarily consist of various chemicals and packaging materials and are generally available from more than one source. However,
CVI relies on sole suppliers for certain raw materials used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products. On December 1, 2010, CVI purchased certain assets of Asahikasei Aime Co., Ltd. (Aime), our current sole supplier of the primary
material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, from Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation. While this acquisition has increased CVI’s control over the sourcing of certain raw materials, if current raw material suppliers fail to
supply sufficient materials on a timely basis or at all for any reason, we may suffer a disruption in the supply of our silicone hydrogel contact lens products.



Raw materials used by CSI are generally available from more than one source. However, because some products require specialized manufacturing procedures,
we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative supplier on short notice.



MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION



CVI markets its products in the United States through its field sales representatives, who call on optometrists, ophthalmologists, opticians, optical chains and distributors. CVI augments its United
States sales and marketing efforts with e-commerce, telemarketing and advertising in professional journals. In the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions, CVI primarily markets its products through its field sales representatives. In other countries, CVI
uses distributors and has given some of them the exclusive right to market its products within specific geographic areas.



CSI’s products are marketed by a network of dedicated field sales representatives, independent agents and distributors. In the United States, CSI
augments its sales and marketing activities by participating in national and regional industry tradeshows, professional educational programs and internet promotions including e-commerce, social media and collaborative efforts with professional
organizations, telemarketing, direct mail and advertising in professional journals.







PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS



Cooper owns or licenses a variety of domestic and foreign patents, which, in
total, are material to its overall business. The names of certain of Cooper’s products are protected by trademark registrations in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and, in some cases, also in foreign trademark offices. Applications
are pending for additional trademark and patent registrations. Cooper intends to protect its intellectual property rights aggressively.



No individual patent or license is material to the Company or either of its principal business units other than:



•Our license related to products manufactured by CVI using the proprietary PC Technology™ patents that we received in connection with the
Company’s acquisition of Biocompatibles Eye Care, Inc. Our Proclear®Compatibles brand of spherical,
multifocal and toric soft contact lenses are manufactured using this PC Technology™. This license term extends until the patents expire in 2011.



•Our License Agreement effective as of November 19, 2007, between CooperVision and CIBA Vision AG and CIBA Vision Corporation. This license relates
to patents covering CVI’s silicone hydrogel contact lens products, Biofinity®and Avaira®. This license extends until the patents expire in 2014 in the United States and in 2016 outside of the United
States.



In addition to trademarks and patent
licenses, the Company owns certain trade secrets, copyrights, know-how and other intellectual property.



DEPENDENCE ON CUSTOMERS



Neither of our business units depends to any material extent on any one customer or any one affiliated group of customers.



GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS



Neither of our business units is materially subject to profit renegotiation
or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the United States government.



BACKLOG



Backlog is not a material factor in either of Cooper’s business units.



SEASONALITY



CVI’s contact lens sales in its fiscal first quarter, which runs from November 1 through January 31, are
typically lower than subsequent quarters, as patient traffic to practitioners’ offices is relatively light during the holiday season.



COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS



Federal, state and local provisions that regulate the discharge of materials into the environment, or relate to the protection of the environment, do not
currently materially affect Cooper’s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.







FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT BUSINESS SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES



The information required by this item is included in Note
14. Business Segment Information of our Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risks Relating to Our Business, included in this report.



EMPLOYEES



On October 31, 2010, the Company had about 6,800 employees. The Company believes that its relations with its employees are
good.



NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE CERTIFICATION



We submitted our 2010 annual Section 12(a) CEO certification with the
New York Stock Exchange. The certification was not qualified in any respect. Additionally, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2010, the CEO and CFO
certifications required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



The Cooper Companies, Inc. Internet address is http://www.coopercos.com. The information on the Company’s Web site is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are publicly available free of charge
on our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable. The public may read and copy these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a Web site that contains such reports, proxy and information statements and other information whose Internet address is http://www.sec.gov. The Company’s Corporate
Governance Principles, Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and charters of each standing committee of the Board of Directors are also posted on the Company’s Web site.







