
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, DC  20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
 X   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
- ----                                                       
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

                     For fiscal year ended March 31, 1995
                                           --------------

                                      OR


____ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]


          For the transition period from __________ to ____________.


                        Commission File Number : 1-9585
                                                 ------

                                 ABIOMED, INC.
                --------------------------------------------- 
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


              Delaware                                   04-2743260
        ---------------------                         ----------------
         (State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer
        incorporation or organization)                Identification No.)


              33 Cherry Hill Drive, Danvers, Massachusetts 01923
              --------------------------------------------------
             (Address of principal executive offices)  (Zip Code)


       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (508)777-5410
                                                           -------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                     None


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:


                         Common Stock, $.01 par value


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
                               Yes  X     No ___
                                   ---          

                                      -1-

 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent files pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to the
Form 10-K [X].


The aggregate market value of the registrant's Common Stock, $.01 par value,
held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 16, 1995 was $38,638,300
based on the closing price of $8 5/8 on that date on the Nasdaq National
Market.* As of June 16, 1995, 4,885,821 shares of the registrant's Common Stock,
$.01 par value, were outstanding, and 2,040,000 shares of the registrant's Class
A Common Stock, $.01 par value were outstanding.

____________________
*No established public trading market exists for the registrant's Class A
Common Stock, $.01 par value.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement involving the election of
directors, which is expected to be filed within 120 days after the end of the
registrant's fiscal year, are incorporated by reference in Part III (Items 10,
11 and 12) of this Report.

                                      -2-

 
                                    PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
     ------   --------

     ABIOMED, Inc. and Subsidiaries ("ABIOMED" or the "Company") develops,
     manufactures and markets medical and dental devices and is a leader in the
     research and development of cardiac assist systems. The Company currently
     has three separate operating subsidiaries: ABIOMED R&D, Inc., ABIOMED
     Cardiovascular, Inc., and ABIODENT(R), Inc. Since commencing operations in
     1981, the central focus of the Company has been innovative and technical
     research and development with an emphasis on cardiac assist technology. In
     the Company's last two fiscal years, the majority of the Company's revenues
     were derived from the commercialization of the first cardiovascular product
     developed by the Company.

     ABIOMED R&D, Inc. (the "Research Division") is dedicated to scientific
     research and engineering development of solutions to a variety of medical
     needs. The Research Division has expertise in electro-mechanical systems,
     cardiac physiology and blood-material interactions, fluid mechanics and
     hemodynamics, electronics (hardware and software), plastics processing and
     optical physics. Initial research and product development in the Research
     Division is currently primarily funded by research grants and contracts
     from U.S. Government agencies. The Company selectively funds research and
     development through internal investment, particularly in the later stages
     of product development and testing.

     The core activities of the Research Division are in the areas of permanent
     and temporary cardiac assist. A primary technology under development by the
     Research Division is a battery-operated implantable total artificial heart.
     Other cardiac assist technologies at various stages of research and
     development include an intra-aortic cardiac support catheter (the
     "SupraCor(TM)"), a pediatric ventricular assist pump, a heart booster, and
     a magnetically suspended centrifugal pump. The Research Division is also
     active in the development of certain non-cardiac assist devices when it
     believes it can solve important medical problems. Examples of these
     activities include: a pediatric body lead analyzer, a vascular laser
     welder, and a quick response cell cytometer.

     ABIOMED Cardiovascular, Inc. and ABIODENT, Inc. manufacture, market and
     support products based on technology initially developed by the R&D group
     now comprising ABIOMED, R&D, Inc. The primary cardiovascular product is a
     bi-ventricular cardiac assist device, the BVS-5000(R) (the "BVS"). This
     sophisticated but easy to use Class III device is employed by cardiac
     surgeons to save the lives of a segment of those patients whose hearts need
     a temporary period of support to rest and recover after heart surgery. The
     BVS provides full assist as an external temporary artificial heart. The BVS
     takes over, on a temporary basis, the complete pumping function of one or
     both ventricles of the heart until the natural heart recovers its normal
     function. In November 1992, the BVS received FDA approval for domestic
     marketing, the first ever for such a ventricular assist device in the U.S.
     In the past two fiscal years, a majority of the Company's revenues and
     greater than
                                      -3-

 
     90% of product revenues were generated by sales of the BVS product line.
     The Company's dental product (the "PerioTemp(R)") is a device for
     screening of early periodontal disease through the measurement of small
     temperature differences around the pockets where teeth meet the gums.

     ABIOMED, Inc. is a Delaware corporation. The Company's principal offices
     are located at 33 Cherry Hill Drive, Danvers, Massachusetts 01923, and its
     principal telephone number is (508) 777-5410. Unless otherwise indicated,
     as used in this Report, the term "Company" or "ABIOMED" refer to ABIOMED,
     Inc., and its wholly owned subsidiaries: ABIOMED R&D, Inc., ABIOMED
     Cardiovascular, Inc., ABIODENT, Inc., Abiomed Research and Development,
     Inc. (the general partner of Abiomed Limited Partnership), and ABD Holding
     Company, Inc.

     ABIOMED and ABIODENT and the corresponding logos are registered service
     marks of the Company. Angioflex, PerioTemp, BVS and BVS 5000 are registered
     trademarks of the Company. SupraCor is a trademark of the Company.


     CARDIAC ASSIST - TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT DEVICE MARKETS
     -------------------------------------------------------

     Heart disease is one of the leading chronic health problems affecting the
     U.S. population. According to U.S. government sources, there are more than
     21 million people in the U.S. who have heart disease. In 1992, heart
     disease was the leading cause of death in the U.S., killing an estimated
     720,000 people. Demographic studies indicate that the U.S. population is
     aging. As the prevalence of heart disease increases with age, the Company
     believes that the number of people afflicted with heart disease will
     continue to increase for the foreseeable future, and heart disease will
     remain the single greatest life-threatening malady.

     Heart patients can be divided into those who have congenital defects
     (generally young children and infants), those that develop mechanical
     defects (such as faulty valves), and those in whom the pumping function of
     the heart is impaired.

     Most patients suffering from heart disease, other than obvious surgical
     cases such as congenital malformations, are initially treated
     pharmacologically. Cardiac drugs are a major segment of the drug industry.
     Typically, surgical intervention and mechanical devices are considered when
     drugs are ineffective or when the nature of the disease is such that it
     cannot be effectively treated by currently available drugs.

     The origin of disturbances and restrictions to the normal pumping function
     of the heart can be either electrical or mechanical in nature. Electrical,
     or rhythm, disturbances that threaten life or impair the quality of life
     have been treated effectively with devices such as pacemakers and
     implantable defibrillators. Mechanical disturbances of the heart are the
     primary field of focus for ABIOMED. Mechanical problems with the heart
     represent a transient or permanent inability of the heart muscle to
     contract and pump blood. In many cases, such weakening of the heart muscle
     and tissue, when not treatable with drugs, can be alleviated 

                                      -4-

 
     by cardiac assist devices which mechanically augment or replace the heart
     function. ABIOMED is a technology leader in this field.

     The Company believes that patients requiring mechanical assist do not form
     a monolithic block but are segmented into many categories with different
     requirements and constraints. Major categories include post-cardiotomy
     shock, cardiac arrest (both resuscitation and post-arrest cardiac support),
     post-infarction shock, congestive heart failure (Class IV and some Class
     III patients), refractory unstable angina, complicated AMI, post-
     atherectomy low flow syndrome, supported angioplasty, surgical support,
     and bridge-to-transplantation. The Company believes that no single device
     can effectively handle all of these patient populations. The Company has,
     therefore, undertaken the development of a family of devices that spans the
     broad spectrum of patients in need of mechanical cardiac assist.

     Mechanical assist devices are classified as "temporary" or "permanent"
     according to the clinical intent:

     When the intent is to remove the device after a period of support time
     which may be hours, days, months, or even years, they are temporary
     devices. Temporary devices available today include roller and centrifugal
     pumps ("CPs") for heart-lung bypass, intra-aortic balloon pumps ("IABP"),
     and emerging ventricular assist devices such as the Company's BVS bi-
     ventricular cardiac support system and certain left ventricular assist
     devices ("LVAD's") approved currently as bridge-to-transplant devices. The
     Company's BVS received FDA approval in November 1992 and remains the only
     device approved by the FDA for treatment of post-cardiotomy shock. The aim
     of the BVS is to provide an ailing heart with sufficient circulatory
     support so that the heart can rest and recover its strength and normal
     function within a short period of time, typically less than 2 weeks.

     When the intent is to provide support through the end of life, they are
     permanent devices. Today, there are no devices approved by the FDA for
     permanent mechanical heart assistance as an alternative to heart
     transplantation. Patients facing imminent death due to irreversible heart
     damage, whether bridged with a temporary device or not, need a human heart
     transplant. During the first half of 1995, on any given day there were
     typically a little over 3,000 patient registrations on the United Network
     of Organ Sharing (UNOS) National Waiting List in need of a donor heart.
     Several published government sources estimate that the number of U.S.
     patients who require some form of permanent cardiac assist exceed 30,000
     per year, with some estimates as high as 70,000. This demand well exceeds
     supply, which on an annual basis has reached an estimated 2,000 available
     donor hearts. Because of a limited supply of available donor hearts, most
     end-stage congestive heart patients face imminent death.

     In the future, implantable LVADs, currently in clinical trials, may be
     available for permanent mechanical support of a segment of the patient
     population: those who only require support to the left side of the heart.
     Implantable total artificial hearts, such as is currently undergoing pre-
     clinical evaluation by ABIOMED, may be available for patients who require
     complete permanent support to both the left and the right sides of the
     heart. In the more

                                      -5-

 
     distant future, the severe immunological hurdles that exist today may be
     overcome and the feasibility to replace human parts with animal organs may
     be demonstrated for heart replacement as well. Because the number of human
     donor hearts potentially available for transplantation is unaffected by
     bridging and, therefore, will remain considerably below the number of
     patients requiring heart transplants or permanent mechanical alternatives
     (such as LVADs and artificial hearts), and because the Company believes
     that gene therapy and animal xenografting are decades away, if at all, the
     Company believes that there is a considerable market for an implantable,
     battery-driven total artificial heart as a cost-effective alternative to
     heart transplantation. Under a 7-year 2-phase contract with the National
     Institutes of Health (NIH) awarded in 1993, the Company is developing such
     a total artificial heart.

     The above discussion regarding permanent mechanical support focuses on end-
     stage patients facing imminent death. However, the Company believes that
     there is another larger market segment for mechanical assist devices that
     can permanently improve the "quality of life" of patients who are not in
     danger of imminent death. A 1993 report in the Journal of American College
     & Cardiology indicated that 3,000,000 people in the U.S. suffer from
     congestive heart failure. Of these people, approximately 200,000 die each
     year and 400,000 are added to the pool of people suffering from congestive
     heart failure. Congestive heart failure is a failure of the heart to pump
     enough blood at normal filling pressures to adequately meet the energy
     requirements of the body. The Company believes that a significant portion
     of these patients are addressable by permanent cardiac assist devices that
     provide support but do not replace the function of the natural heart.

     These patients are often distinct from those who need heart transplants
     (human or artificial) or LVAD's because the associated risks with those
     devices and procedures are too high when life is not at stake. This has
     been recognized by advocates of technology alternatives, such as
     cardiomyoplasty, for patients who do not face imminent death but whose
     quality of life is very limited (usually confined to a bed-to-chair type of
     existence) due to very debilitating heart failure. The Company does not
     believe that there is an effective drug, procedure or device available to
     help these patients and has initiated research efforts into the development
     of a "heart booster" device for this patient category.

                                      -6-

 
     Temporary Cardiac Assist Product Lines
     --------------------------------------

     The Company has developed, markets and sells the BVS-5000 bi-ventricular
     support system and related accessories. Other temporary cardiac assist
     products in various stages of development by the Company include: the
     SupraCor (currently in clinical trials), a pediatric pump, and a
     magnetically suspended centrifugal pump.

        The BVS-5000 Bi-Ventricular Temporary Artificial Heart System.  The BVS
        -------------------------------------------------------------      
     is a cardiac assist device designed to provide a patient's ailing hearts
     with full mechanical assist as an external temporary artificial heart so
     that the natural heart can rest, stabilize and recover its normal function.

     The BVS received FDA pre-market approval ("PMA") in November 1992 allowing
     the Company to begin marketing the product in the U.S. This approval
     represented the first time that the FDA had approved a cardiac assist
     device through the rigorous PMA process. The BVS remains as the only device
     approved by the FDA for post-operative patients in post-cardiotomy shock.
     Since approval of the BVS, other devices have been recommended or approved
     by the FDA for bridge-to-transplantation but these other devices do not
     address the same market segment as the BVS.

     The BVS is targeted for use in any hospital performing open-chest cardiac
     surgery (more than 900 hospitals in the United States) and is intended for
     short term use primarily in patients requiring mechanical support after
     open-chest cardiac surgery. The system consists of one or two disposable
     bedside blood pumps connected to a patient's heart. Depending on the
     patient's needs, these blood pumps provide support for the left, right or
     both sides of a patient's heart. Like the natural heart, each pump contains
     two chambers: an artificial atrium, which fills directly from the natural
     heart, and an artificial ventricle, which pumps blood back to the body. The
     BVS blood pump reduces the risk of damaging blood cells by filling
     passively and continuously by gravity rather than by suction. The BVS 
     blood-contacting pumps are single-use disposable products.

     The BVS blood pumps are driven and controlled by a microprocessor-based
     console. The console features a simple, easy-to-use, touch-activated
     control panel. The BVS incorporates a patented closed-loop system that
     automatically adjusts the pumping rate, like the natural heart. The BVS
     does not require a specially trained technician to constantly monitor or
     adjust pumping parameters, which reduces operating costs.

     The Company designed, developed and manufactures the BVS blood pumps, the
     BVS console and related accessories. The Company designed and manufactures
     its own pumping chambers and trileaflet valves for the BVS blood pumps from
     its proprietary Angioflex(R) material.  In developing the BVS system for
     temporary use only, the Company believes that it has been able to avoid
     some of the complexities and high-cost components that would have been
     needed had the system been originally designed for permanent use.

                                      -7-

 
     The BVS is intended to provide temporary heart support to an ailing heart
     to allow it the time to rest, stabilize and recover its normal function.
     Stabilization and recovery of the heart with the BVS typically occur in a
     period of less than two weeks. The longest period that a patient has been
     on BVS support to date is slightly more than 60 days. Although patients
     whose hearts fail to recover under BVS support may become candidates for
     transplantation, this is not the intended or approved use of the BVS.

     As of March 31, 1995, the completion of the Company's second full fiscal
     year since FDA approval of the BVS, the BVS had been purchased by over 100
     medical centers in the U.S. Typically, U.S. medical centers initially
     purchase one or two BVS consoles, two to four BVS blood pumps, and related
     accessories. Subsequent purchases are dependent upon the rate of BVS usage.
     The BVS blood pumps and certain accessories contact blood when used and,
     therefore, are disposed of by the medical center after use on a single
     patient. The BVS is capable of supporting the left, right or both sides of
     the heart. In the Company's clinical experience, which the Company
     estimates to exceed 1,000 patients, approximately 60% of the patients
     required support to both sides of the heart, and therefore the use of two
     disposable BVS blood pumps.

     Company analysis of mortality figures in published references indicate that
     in the U.S. alone there are over 12,000 patients each year who expire peri-
     operatively, the BVS's targeted market. Due to the aging U.S. population
     and the increasing number of patients requiring repeat coronary by-pass and
     valve replacement operations, the Company believes that there is a growing
     patient population that could benefit from the use of the BVS.

        The SupraCor Intra-Arterial Cardiac Support System. The SupraCor(TM)
        --------------------------------------------------
     Intra-Arterial Cardiac Support System (the "SupraCor"), previously named
     the ICS-8000(TM), is an advanced intra-aortic balloon-based catheter
     designed to operate in the ascending aorta of the patient's heart. The
     device is intended for rapid support of patients who require an increased
     blood supply to the heart.

     Inserted percutaneously, or surgically via the femoral artery, the SupraCor
     is designed to help increase coronary blood flow and to reduce the workload
     of the heart. The SupraCor is currently undergoing initial clinical trials
     under an approved FDA investigational device exemption ("IDE") for two
     different indications for use.

     The Company's current clinical focus involves a pilot study aimed at
     demonstrating the safety and feasibility of the SupraCor to resuscitate
     patients who suffer cardiac arrest. The Company believes that following a
     new clinical method developed by the Company's clinical collaborators, the
     SupraCor will be able to help resuscitate cardiac arrest patients who fail
     to respond to CPR, maximum life support techniques and drug treatment
     (conventional cardiac life support). The Company believes that after
     patient resuscitation, the SupraCor's unique proprietary characteristics
     will help to temporarily stabilize their hearts to provide time for these
     patients to undergo corrective life-saving interventional

                                      -8-

 
     procedures. The pilot study is intended to demonstrate the efficacy and
     safety of the SupraCor only for the first phase: resuscitation of patients
     who suffer from cardiac arrest. If this pilot study is successful, the
     Company must apply to the FDA for expansion of the clinical trials to move
     into the second phase: assessment of safety and efficacy of the SupraCor
     for both resuscitation and post-resuscitation cardiac support of these
     patients.

     Based upon published information, the Company believes that there are more
     than 350,000 out of hospital cardiac arrests in the U.S. each year, and 97%
     of these patients do not survive to hospital discharge. Of these, the
     Company believes there are currently more than 100,000 patients in the U.S.
     per year that are potentially addressable by the SupraCor.

     The second indicated use is for patients who cannot be weaned from
     cardiopulmonary by-pass or who deteriorate post operatively and need rapid
     support. Clinical trials for the second indication are in a very early
     stage in selected centers in the USA and Europe.

     The SupraCor catheter is being developed for medical use in any hospital
     with cardiac catheterization capabilities, which include over 1,400
     hospitals in the United States. The Company expects that the SupraCor may
     be most effective in preventing or limiting damage to the heart when used
     as a temporary support device, or bridge, to corrective therapies, such as
     angioplasty, atherectomy, ablation therapy or bypass surgery.

     Permanent Cardiac Assist Products.
     --------------------------------- 

     The Company's primary efforts in the development of permanent cardiac
     assist products are the Total Artificial Heart (which has been in
     development by the Company for a number of years) and a booster heart
     device (on which the Company has only recently initiated research).

     The Total Artificial Heart (TAH) is a battery-powered implantable
     artificial heart under development by the Company to address the needs of
     patients with irreversibly failing hearts who require permanent mechanical
     circulatory support. The TAH is intended to be a permanent device that
     replaces a failing human heart, providing the complete left and right side
     pumping functions of the heart. The TAH is intended to be fully implantable
     without any externalized ports. Such ports, if present, increase the risks
     of complicated infections. The TAH technology could also be adapted to
     function as a left or right ventricular assist device. However, the Company
     believes that the largest segment of the patient population in imminent
     danger of death and therefore requiring permanent support will need a total
     artificial heart (TAH) as an alternative to transplantation.

     The Company is one of three scientific teams in the United States that has
     a contract with the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute (the "NHLBI")
     (awarded in the second quarter of fiscal 1993) to develop a battery-powered
     implantable total artificial heart. This contract follows a $5.6 million
     NHLBI TAH contract that had been previously awarded to the Company for the
     initial research and development. The new contract is a two-phase seven-
     year contract for $13.5 million. The first phase, which commenced September
     30, 1993,

                                      -9-

 
     provides for the payment of approximately $4.9 million to the Company. The
     goal of this first phase is to refine and finalize the design and
     demonstrate feasibility through initial bench and animal testing. Animal
     testing and product evaluation are conducted by the Texas Heart Institute
     under a sub-contract from the Company. Contingent upon the successful
     completion of this phase, as determined by the NHLBI, the contract provides
     for a continuation second phase (4 years starting on October 1, 1996) for
     the balance of approximately $8.6 million to bring the device to the
     clinical phase as a permanent device. The Company is conducting pre-
     clinical trials with prototype devices, and as of March 31, 1995, the
     Company had $2.7 million of funding remaining on the first phase of this
     contract. The NHLBI has indicated that only two of the three scientific
     teams will qualify for funding for the second phase. In addition, the
     Company's TAH development contract, as with all of the Company's U.S.
     government contracts, is terminable at the convenience of the government.
     See "Research and Development".

     The booster heart device is targeted to those patients suffering from
     congestive heart failure resulting in a significant deterioration of their
     quality of life, but who are not at risk of imminent death. The Company's
     early-stage research and development efforts on this device are focused on
     cardiac assist technology that avoids the inherent risks of contact with
     blood while providing a significant level of mechanical assistance to the
     heart to restore these patients to an acceptable and active quality of
     life. The Company is currently seeking government funding to support the
     development of this device. Receipt of such funding should enable the
     Company to proceed with its research and development efforts. If the
     funding is not forthcoming, the Company may seek to obtain financing
     through a strategic alliance or other financing method.

        Marketing and Sales - Cardiac Assist.  The Company, through its wholly-
        ------------------------------------                                  
     owned subsidiary ABIOMED Cardiovascular, Inc., sells its BVS product line
     through a direct sales and support staff in the U.S. and through a network
     of distributors in selected countries outside the U.S.

     In the United States, the Company has established its own direct sales
     force covering the entire United States. As of June 1, 1995, the Company's
     sales, clinical support and marketing staff for the BVS included 19
     employees, with nine employees engaged full-time in direct sales. The
     direct sales effort is augmented, particularly with respect to reorders of
     blood pumps, by a six member clinical services group that is directly
     responsible for BVS customer training and product usage support.

     In addition, the Company has established a distribution network for the BVS
     in much of western Europe and certain other foreign countries. This
     distribution network is comprised of local distributors that have
     experience in the marketing, distribution and servicing of other
     cardiovascular devices. Employees of these distributors have undergone
     product and technical training relating to the BVS. Although the majority
     of international sales are denominated in U.S. dollar, certain foreign
     sales may be subject to risk from currency fluctuations, import or export
     controls and other risks associated with foreign sales.

                                      -10-

 
     PERIODONTAL DISEASE RISK ASSESSMENT
     -----------------------------------

     The Company's dental subsidiary, ABIODENT, is involved in the early
     detection and assessment of risk of periodontal disease. Periodontal
     disease is an infection caused by the presence of bacteria or other
     microorganisms in the pockets of the gums which result in inflammation of
     the gums and, in its most advanced form, the decay of gum tissue, bone
     deterioration and the loss of teeth. According to published reports, over
     three quarters of all adults have periodontal disease, with approximately
     one third of adults 65 years and older having advanced cases of the
     disease. Less serious, periodontal disease is a leading cause of halitosis
     (a.k.a. bad breath). Early detection and diagnosis of this disease allows
     for appropriate treatment.

     The conventional technique of diagnosing periodontal disease is the use of
     a dentist's standard probe to observe signs of the disease such as
     periodontal pocket depth and bleeding. However, this technique is
     relatively subjective, and dentists often are unable to detect periodontal
     disease early enough to implement measures to prevent gum disease or tooth
     loss. Accordingly, the Company believes that there is a significant market
     for a device capable of objective risk assessments of the early stages of
     periodontal disease during routine dental examinations and capable of
     educating patients about their periodontal health.

     Periodontal Screening System
     ----------------------------

        PerioTemp Periodontal Screening System.  The PerioTemp(R) periodontal
        --------------------------------------                             
     screening system (the "PerioTemp") is a tool for use by dentists,
     periodontists and other dental specialists to instantly detect sites of gum
     inflammation. It also allows the clinician to simultaneously record gum
     pocket depth information.

     The PerioTemp has been cleared by the FDA for marketing under Section
     510(k). Gum temperature has been shown, as documented by published sources,
     to be a reliable indicator of the presence of inflammation, a precursor of
     periodontal disease. The PerioTemp measures small temperature differences
     around each tooth.

     The PerioTemp patented technology, developed in part through funding from
     the National Institute of Dental Research, consists of a book-sized
     console, containing a microprocessor that is connected to a probe, shaped
     much like a dentist's probe, with a low-cost disposable heat-sensing tip.
     The device is used in a manner which is consistent with traditional probing
     but includes an instantaneous display and record of temperature deviations
     from normal inside the pockets between teeth and the surrounding gum. The
     Company believes that the instantaneous evaluation is important to both the
     dental specialist and the patient.

        Marketing and Sales - Periodontal Screening.   The Company, through
        -------------------------------------------                        
     ABIODENT, markets the PerioTemp for use in connection with complementary
     products of others used in preventive and diagnostic dental programs. In
     the last year, through an effort that remains modest, the Company found
     peer-to-peer selling to be an effective means of selling the 

                                      -11-

 
     device. Dentists who use the PerioTemp share their experience with their
     peers through independent seminars and help the Company sell the device.
     These seminars emphasize the device's clinical effectiveness and its
     utility in early screening of disease to prevent consequences of the
     disease. The Company's efforts also aim at illustrating to dentists the
     economic benefits to the practice and the health benefits to the patients
     of purchasing the product, since it helps them identify more patients for
     earlier treatment. As of June 1, 1995, ABIODENT had one full-time sales
     representative. In an effort to accelerate the growth of this business, the
     Company is seeking arrangements with third parties that have stronger
     presence in the dental market. There can be no assurance that the Company
     will be able to enter into any such arrangement.

     OTHER PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH ACTIVITIES
     -------------------------------------------------

     In addition to engineering personnel at ABIOMED Cardiovascular and ABIODENT
     who support existing product lines, the Company, through its wholly-owned
     subsidiary ABIOMED R&D, Inc., maintains a research and development group
     (the "R&D group") to develop new medical devices to address medical needs
     that the Company believes are not otherwise being adequately addressed. The
     R&D group conducts its research using core technology expertise in areas
     such as electro-mechanical systems, cardiac physiology and blood-material
     interactions, fluid mechanics and hemodynamics, electronics (hardware and
     software), plastics processing and optical physics. The R&D group's primary
     emphasis is on cardiac assist. It has followed a general policy of funding
     new projects with contracts or grants from third parties such as NIH. Once
     a project reaches a development stage, the Company considers internal
     funding or seeks external business partners for further development and
     commercialization of the product. In addition to the products under
     development as discussed above, the following is a brief description of
     certain other products currently under development by this group.

     The R&D group has developed a total Body Lead Analyzer to assess the body's
                                         ------------------
     lead content in adults using x-ray fluorescence technology and is working
     on a pediatric version of the device under a grant from the National
     Institute of Child Health and Development. The Company has received FDA
     clearance under Section 510(k) to market its adult version of the body lead
     analyzer. The Company has sold 3 systems to date which are in clinical use
     in prominent U.S. medical centers but, at this time, does not actively
     market the adult version of the device. The Company believes that the
     market for the pediatric version of this device, which the Company has been
     developing with government funding, is more attractive.

     The R&D group has developed a prototype Vascular Laser Welder for small
                                             ---------------------   
     diameter vascular repair. This laser welder was developed under a grant
     from the NHLBI. The device is designed to substantially reduce the time
     required for rejoining small vessels. The prototype is currently being
     evaluated in an in-vivo model to determine both its short term weld
     strength and the long term patency of the vessel repairs. The Company is
     working with certain U.S. hospitals in evaluating the potential application
     of this product to several markets.

                                      -12-

 
     The R&D group has developed a Magnetically Suspended Centrifugal Pump.  The
                                   ---------------------------------------      
     pump, developed under grant from the NHLBI, eliminates mechanical drive-
     support components, such as rotor bearings and seals, and thereby reduces
     the risk of thrombus (a form of blood clot) formation and embolization
     (migration of the thrombus). This device has proven effective in laboratory
     studies and the Company is evaluating the potential application of this
     product to several markets, including as a supplement to its cardiac assist
     product lines.

     The R&D group has received a grant from NIH for the development of a
     Pediatric Pump. The Pediatric Pump is an extension of the Company's BVS
     --------------
     technology intended to provide infant hearts with temporary mechanical
     assistance after surgery. The Pediatric Pump is in laboratory development
     and scheduled for pre-clinical studies in 1996. The Company considers this
     product as a natural adjunct to its BVS system, which will give surgeons
     the ability to temporarily support the hearts of children and infants.

     The R&D group is developing an optical Cell Cytometer for rapid analysis of
                                            --------------          
     blood cells (initially platelets) under a grant from the NHLBI. Abnormal
     cellular parameters can reflect many clinical disorders. Based on
     laboratory results, the Company believes that its Cell Cytometer technology
     has the potential to exhibit a faster response and be easier and less
     expensive to use than traditional hospital laboratory methods. Development
     of this device is in its early stages and the Company is continuing
     evaluate its product potential.

     The Company intends to continue research of promising products and, if it
     deems it appropriate, to seek strategic partners to accelerate the further
     development and/or market introduction of promising products.

     MANUFACTURING
     -------------

     The Company manufactures the BVS console, BVS blood pumps and related
     accessories. The manufacture of the BVS consoles consists primarily of
     assembly, testing and quality control. The Company purchases the majority
     of the parts and peripheral components used in the BVS consoles. Many of
     the parts are off-the-shelf items available from more than one supply
     source. The Company manufactures certain of its blood contacting components
     for the BVS, including valves and bladders, from its proprietary blood-
     contacting polymers. From time to time, the Company has been advised by
     certain of its vendors that the vendor is planning to terminate sales to
     customers that manufacture life-supporting medical devices, such as the
     Company's cardiovascular products, in an effort to reduce potential product
     liability exposure. While the Company believes that alternative sources of
     raw materials are available, and that the vendors typically provide
     sufficient lead time for the Company to find alternative sources of supply,
     any supply interruption could have a material adverse effect on the
     Company's ability to manufacture its cardiovascular products.

     The Company has a pilot production facility for the PerioTemp console and a
     semi-automated disposable tip production facility which can be expanded to
     produce larger quantities.  Console production consists primarily of
     assembly, testing and quality control.  

                                      -13-

 
     Parts for the console and materials for the disposable tip are readily
     available from several supply sources.

     RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
     ------------------------

     During fiscal years ended March 31, 1993, 1994 and 1995, the Company
     expended $2,097,000, $2,430,000 and $2,465,000, respectively, on product
     research and development. Of these amounts, $1,283,000, $1,516,000 and
     $1,718,000, respectively, was expended on externally funded research and
     early-stage product development, and $814,000, $914,000 and $747,000,
     respectively, was invested in Company sponsored product development. The
     internal investment in research and development funded functional and
     manufacturing enhancements to the Company's BVS, SupraCor and PerioTemp,
     clinical trials relating to the SupraCor product and support of the FDA
     regulatory process for these products. Virtually all of the externally
     funded research and development was derived from contracts and grants with
     various government agencies. At March 31, 1995, the Company was working on
     various contracts and grants with an aggregate remaining value, exclusive
     of the $8.6 million Phase II of the Total Artificial Heart contract, of
     approximately $3.5 million. The Company has submitted proposals for funding
     on several additional projects, including funding for further development
     of the Pediatric Pump of which $540,000 was approved by NHLBI in June
     1995. All such government contracts contain provisions making them
     terminable at the convenience of the government. The Company retains rights
     for itself to market the products developed under these government
     contracts and grants.

     Recent FY96 budget resolutions proposed by the House and Senate Committees
     include cuts in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), of
     which NHLBI is a part. The House budget resolution encourages a 5%
     reduction in NIH-supported research funding. The Senate resolution is
     silent on the magnitude of such a proposed cut. These are in contrast with
     the Administration's proposal to increase NIH funding by 4.1% in FY96. It
     is not clear whether any of these proposed cuts will be implemented, or if
     they are, whether they will materially adversely affect the level of
     funding of the Company's externally-funded research and development
     activities. 

     COMPETITION
     -----------

     Competition in the medical and dental device industries is intense. A
     number of companies have already developed, or are expected to develop,
     devices which will compete with the Company's products. Certain of these
     companies have significantly greater manufacturing, marketing and financial
     resources than the Company.

        Cardiac Support.  A number of companies have already developed, or are
        ---------------                                                       
     expected to develop, permanent or temporary cardiac assist devices which
     will compete with the Company's cardiac assist devices. The Company
     believes that it will compete with these devices on the basis of efficacy,
     ease of use, quality, versatility and total cost of operation.

                                      -14-

 
     Although the BVS is the only FDA approved device or system for treatment of
     post-cardiotomy shock, the BVS directly and indirectly competes with a
     number of devices, including centrifugal and other continuous flow pumps
     and some implantable systems designed for use as a bridge to
     transplantation or as permanently implantable devices. Centrifugal pumps
     ("CPs") have low-cost disposables, but the Company believes that the use of
     these systems is more labor intensive and less clinically effective than
     the BVS. CPs usually require constant monitoring by skilled technicians,
     which significantly adds to the cost of operation. Moreover, the Company
     believes that centrifugal pumps are not currently approved for post-
     operative circulatory support by the FDA. The BVS may also compete with
     systems that were originally designed to be permanent devices but were not
     FDA approved for permanent use and were adapted for temporary use and with
     systems approved for temporary "bridge-to-transplantation" support that may
     be able to help support patients trying to recover from post-cardiotomy
     shock patients. The Company believes that such devices are more expensive
     to use and operate than the BVS, that not all such devices provide support
     to both sides of an ailing heart, that no such devices are approved by the
     FDA for the treatment of post-cardiotomy shock, and that such devices, if
     used, were designed or adapted to assist in transplantation rather than for
     recovery and that available donor hearts needed by such devices may not be
     available due to limited supply.

     IABPs may compete with the SupraCor in certain patient categories. SupraCor
     clinical trials are intended to further assess the clinical risks and
     efficacy of the SupraCor beyond the pre-clinical and preliminary clinical
     tests. At least one other medical device company has conducted clinical
     trials of a minimally invasive continuous flow ventricular assist system in
     several United States and European medical centers. This device is targeted
     at some segments of the cardiopulmonary support market.

        Periodontal Screening. The Company believes that the PerioTemp
        ---------------------
     represents the most practical device available today to provide a dentist
     with an early and immediate indication of inflammation, which is a
     precursor of periodontal disease, during a routine examination. A number of
     companies have developed or are expected to develop devices which provide
     dentists with techniques that are less operator sensitive than the use of
     the standard dentist's probe to measure gum pocket depth. However, the
     measurement of gum pocket depth provides information regarding the tissue
     destruction which has already occurred and is not necessarily an indicator
     of ongoing periodontal disease activity. The PerioTemp's temperature
     analysis enhances the evaluation provided with pocket depth measurement by
     providing an indication of the risk that periodontal problems will develop
     before pocket depth changes occur. The PerioTemp will also compete with the
     standard dentist's probe which, although less objective in diagnosing
     periodontal disease, is less costly than the PerioTemp. Other companies are
     developing or have developed biological (such as DNA and enzymes) assays
     for disease detection. These assays currently do not provide instantaneous
     feedback like the PerioTemp and are less practical and relatively more
     expensive for use during a routine full mouth evaluation.

                                      -15-

 
     REGULATION
     ----------

     The medical and dental devices manufactured and marketed by the Company are
     subject to regulation by the FDA and, in many instances, by foreign
     governments. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended (the
     "FDA Act"), manufacturers of medical and dental devices must comply with
     certain regulations governing the testing, manufacturing, packaging and
     marketing of medical and dental devices. Certain of the Company's products
     are also subject to the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act,
     administered by the FDA, which imposes performance standards and record
     keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements for
     devices using radiation, such as the Company's tissue welding laser and
     total body lead analyzer.

     Under the FDA Act, medical and dental devices are subject to different
     levels of approval requirements, the most comprehensive of which requires
     that a clinical evaluation program be conducted before a device receives
     pre-market approval by the FDA for commercial distribution in the United
     States.

     Commercial sales of the Company's medical and dental devices must be
     preceded by either FDA pre-market clearance pursuant to Section 510(k) of
     the FDA Act or FDA approval of a Pre-market Approval Application.

     The Section 510(k) notification filing must contain information that
     establishes that the device is substantially equivalent to an existing
     device that had been in use prior to May 28, 1976. The FDA must either
     concur with the 510(k) submission, deny the 510(k) submission, or require
     further information within 90 days of submission. The Company received FDA
     marketing clearance under Section 510(k) for the PerioTemp.

     When a company introduces a new product that is considered to be a
     significant risk device or a life-sustaining device which is not
     substantially equivalent to a device in use prior to May 28, 1976, two
     steps of FDA approval are required before marketing in the United States
     can begin. First, the FDA, with an independent protocol review and approval
     by participating medical institutions, must approve the Company's
     application for an Investigational Device Exemption or "IDE" permitting
     clinical evaluation of the product on human subjects under controlled
     experimental conditions. Second, the FDA must grant the Company's Pre-
     market Approval Application. The FDA will grant pre-market approval if it
     finds that the safety and efficacy of the product have been sufficiently
     demonstrated through clinical evaluation of the product. The FDA may also
     require additional patient follow-up as part of a post-market surveillance
     program for an indefinite period of time.

     In November 1992, the Company received FDA pre-market approval for sale of
     the BVS for circulatory failure following open-chest surgery. The pre-
     market approval for the BVS represented the first time that the FDA
     approved a cardiac assist device through the pre-market approval process.

                                      -16-

 
     The Company has an IDE for the SupraCor which permits the use of the system
     in clinical trials at selected hospitals for a limited number of patients
     meeting specified criteria. The IDE covers two indications for use. Due to
     the nature of testing under these indications, patient selection is very
     specific and restrictive. While clinical testing has been slower than
     desired, the Company, its scientists and regulatory staff continue to work
     closely with consulting physicians and the FDA to define clinical protocols
     that permit satisfactory rates of patient enrollment and also meet
     regulatory requirements. Under the protocol for a pilot study to assess the
     capability of SupraCor to resuscitate cardiac arrest patients who do not
     respond to maximum conventional resuscitation techniques, clinical trials
     are being conducted at one center in the U.S.

     No assurance can be given that the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies will
     give the requisite approvals or clearances for any of the Company's medical
     and dental devices under development on a timely basis, if at all.
     Moreover, after permission is granted, these agencies can later withdraw
     permission or require the Company to change the device or its manufacturing
     process or labeling, to supply additional proof of its safety and
     effectiveness or to recall, repair, replace or refund the cost of the
     medical or dental device, if it is shown to be hazardous or defective. The
     process of obtaining clearance to market products is costly and time-
     consuming and can delay the marketing and sale of the Company's products.

     As a manufacturer of medical and dental devices, the Company is also
     subject to certain other FDA regulations, including post-market
     surveillance of products and FDA inspection and review of manufacturing
     processes and facilities.

     Federal, state and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture, sale, use
     and operation of medical and dental devices are subject to future change.
     The Company cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on
     its business.

     THIRD PARTY REIMBURSEMENT
     -------------------------

     The Company sells its primary product, the BVS, directly to medical centers
     or physicians and, therefore, is not directly reliant on third party
     reimbursement. However, the medical centers and physicians rely on such
     reimbursement to justify the use of such devices. In the United States,
     medical centers are generally reimbursed by patients, private-payer
     insurance companies (including health maintenance organizations) and
     government administered insurance programs such as Medicare or Medicaid.
     Medical center and physician reimbursement are based on established
     insurance rates and on patients' abilities to pay. Private payer rates of
     reimbursement to medical centers and physicians for use of the BVS vary
     depending upon the nature of the procedure and the agreements between the
     private payer and the medical center and physician. Some of these private
     payers follow guidelines established for government administered insurance
     programs. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement is established under
     guidelines of the Health Care Finance Administration ("HCFA"). Generally,
     HCFA limits the reimbursement that hospitals receive for treating certain
     medical conditions by setting maximum fees that can be charged for Medicare
     patients. Under this system, hospitals are paid a fixed amount for treating
     each patient with

                                      -17-

 
     a particular diagnosis. In October 1993, following the FDA pre-market
     approval of the BVS, HCFA approved reimbursement to physicians and medical
     centers for FDA approved application of the BVS. Effective January 1, 1994,
     HCFA also approved new Common Procedural Terminology Codes (CPT's) and
     Relative Value Units (RVU's) used by public and private payers to determine
     payments for insertion and removal of ventricular assist devices. As a
     result, physicians are able to receive supplemental reimbursement for their
     services when they implant and remove the BVS. The Company is seeking
     approval of a new Diagnosis Related Group (DRG) reassignment for the BVS.
     Approval of a separate DRG for use of the BVS would likely increase the
     amount medical centers are reimbursed when the BVS is utilized. As an
     initial step in the DRG reassignment process, the Company petitioned HCFA
     to create unique International Classification of Disease (ICD-9) codes to
     allow HCFA to more easily capture cost information in connection with BVS
     usage. These codes were recently approved by HCFA and will be effective
     October 1, 1995. Once sufficient cost data is captured, the Company expects
     that HCFA will make a decision regarding potential DRG reassignment.

     Although the Company believes that the BVS helps saves lives and is more
     cost effective than alternative devices, the Company believes that it is
     important for future sales of its products that reimbursement schedules be
     adjusted or established to accommodate new categories of patients requiring
     greater levels of heart support.

     The United States health care system has been undergoing a major review in
     an effort to expand access to insurance coverage and to reduce costs. Many
     of the proposals advanced in connection with that review, if adopted, are
     expected to affect health care expenditures in the United States. Measures
     to reduce health care expenses are also under way in several European
     countries where the Company sells or plans to sell its products. The
     Company cannot predict at this time the effect that changes, if any, in the
     health care system in the United States or Europe will have on its business
     and prospects.

     PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS
     ------------------------------

     Certain of the Company's products have been developed in part under Federal
     government contracts pursuant to which the Company may be required to
     manufacture a substantial portion of the product in the United States and
     the government may obtain certain rights to use or disclose technical data
     developed under those contracts. The Company retains the right to obtain
     patents on any inventions developed under those contracts (subject to a 
     non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license to the government),
     provided it follows certain prescribed procedures.

     The Company relies upon the law of trade secrets, patent protection and
     unpatented proprietary know-how to protect its technology. Due to the rapid
     technological change that characterize the medical and dental device
     industries, the Company believes that the improvement of existing products,
     reliance upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how and the
     development of new products are generally as important as patent protection
     in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Nevertheless, the

                                      -18-

 
     Company has received patents and will continue to make efforts to obtain
     patents, when available, in connection with its product development
     program, although there can be no assurance that any patent obtained will
     provide substantial protection or be of commercial benefit to the Company,
     or that its validity will not be challenged. The Company has been issued or
     allowed United States patents relating to certain of its products,
     including the BVS, SupraCor and PerioTemp, and has applied for additional
     patents relating to those and other products in the United States. The
     Company's SupraCor clinical collaborators have patented a clinical method
     that is being used by them with the SupraCor in the clinical trails of the
     SupraCor to help resuscitate cardiac arrest patients who fail to respond to
     conventional cardiac life support. The Company is currently reviewing the
     validity and breadth of these patents. However, regardless of the outcome
     of this investigation, because patent litigation can be expensive and time
     consuming, the Company is in preliminary negotiations to obtain a license
     to these patents. However, there be no assurance that the Company will be
     able to enter into a license on favorable terms if at all. The Company is
     also in the early stages of negotiation of certain rights to patents owned
     by others which it deems important for certain product under development.
     Some of the issued and filed United States patents are also pending in
     certain other countries.

     RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIP
     ------------------------------------

     Two of the Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries are the sole general partner
     and special limited partner in Abiomed Limited Partnership (the
     "Partnership") holding a combined interest of 10.9% of the Partnership. The
     remaining 89.1% of the Partnership is owned by third party investor limited
     partners. The Partnership provided the initial financing for the
     development of BVS and SupraCor. In 1990, under prior agreements with the
     Partnership, the Company and its subsidiaries purchased all technology,
     know-how and other rights to BVS and SupraCor from the Partnership in
     exchange for certain royalties on Company revenues from the sale of BVS and
     SupraCor products. The agreements required the payments of certain minimum
     royalty amounts. The Company paid the minimum royalty amounts to the
     Partnership net of certain offsetting debt from the Partnership to the
     Company on March 29, 1995. The payment consisted of 451,427 shares of the
     Company's Common Stock, valued at the time at approximately $3,109,000. The
     Company continues to owe the Partnership cash royalties on certain sales of
     these products through August 3, 2000 at an effective rate of 4.9%, after
     taking into account the Company's 10.9% partnership interest. In addition,
     the Company's agreement with the Partnership provides for payment of
     royalties in the amount of 50% of royalty or other license fees received by
     the Company in connection with the sale or licensing of this technology. On
     May 22, 1995, the Company offered to purchase each of the 135 outstanding
     limited partner units in the Partnership at $10,000 cash per unit. The
     total potential cost of this offer to the Company is $1,350,000. To the
     extent that this offer is accepted, the Company's net 4.9% royalty rate to
     the Partnership will be reduced.

                                      -19-

 
     EMPLOYEES
     ---------

     As of June 1, 1995, the Company had 70 full-time employees.  None of the
     Company's employees is represented by a union.  The Company considers its
     employee relations to be good.

     Executive Officers of the Registrant
     ------------------------------------

       The executive officers of the Company are as follows:

 

     Dr. Lederman founded the Company in 1981 and has served as Chairman of the
     Board and Chief Executive Officer since that time. Dr. Lederman also served
     as President of the Company from 1981 through 1990, from 1991 through 1992
     and from 1993 to the present. Prior to founding ABIOMED, he was a Principal
     Research Scientist and subsequently Chairman of the Medical Research group
     at the Everett Subsidiary of Avco Corporation. Dr. Lederman holds
     Bachelor's degrees in Engineering Physics and Masters and Ph.D. degrees in
     Aerospace Engineering from Cornell University. He has authored over 40
     medical publications, is a member of numerous medical and scientific
     professional organizations and is a frequent speaker in forums on cardiac
     support systems and on the commercialization of government-funded
     technology.

     Dr. Kung has served as Vice President of Research and Development of the
     Company since 1987. From 1982 to 1987, he served as Chief Scientist of the
     Company. Prior to joining ABIOMED, he was a Principal Research Scientist at
     Schafer Associates and at the Avco Everett Research Laboratory. He
     developed non-linear optical techniques for laser applications and
     investigated physical and chemical phenomena in re-entry physics. Dr. Kung
     has been Principal Investigator for the Company's TAH program and has
     conceived of and directed the development of the Company's surgical laser,
     the welding laser, and the PerioTemp. Dr. Kung received a Ph.D. degree in
     Physical Chemistry from Cornell University.

     Mr. Shook became Vice President of Clinical Affairs for the Company in 1991
     and Vice President in September 1992 when he was given the responsibility
     of chief operating officer 

                                      -20-

 
     and Divisional President of the Company's cardiovascular subsidiary. He has
     served with the Company in several marketing, clinical and regulatory
     functions since 1987. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Shook served in
     various capacities with Cordis Corporation from 1984 to 1987, including
     Research Engineer and Senior Clinical Engineer. Mr. Shook received a
     Masters Degree in Engineering from Columbia University.

     Dr. Singh has been a director of the Company since 1982. He served as
     Executive Vice President of the Company from 1982 through 1990, took a
     leave of absence from 1990 through 1993, during which time he provided
     consulting services to the Company and others, and rejoined the Company as
     Vice President for Corporate Development in August 1993. Dr. Singh received
     a Ph.D. degree in Experimental Fluid Mechanics from the University of
     Colorado.

     Mr. Thero joined the Company in 1994 as Vice President, Finance and Chief
     Financial Officer. Prior to joining ABIOMED, during the period 1992 to
     1995, Mr. Thero was Chief Financial Officer and acting President for the
     restructuring of two venture-backed companies. From 1987 to 1992, Mr. Thero
     was employed, in various capacities including Chief Financial Officer, by
     Aries Technology, Inc. From 1983 to 1987, Mr. Thero was employed by the
     commercial audit division of Arthur Andersen & Co. during which time he
     became a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Mr. Thero received a B.A. in
     Economics/Accounting from The College of the Holy Cross.


     ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
     ------   ----------

     The Company leases its headquarters and research and development and
     production facilities in three separate buildings in an industrial office
     park covering approximately 34,000 square feet. The addresses of these
     leased spaces are 33 Cherry Hill Drive, 24 Cherry Hill Drive and 5 Cherry
     Hill Drive, all in Danvers, Massachusetts and located approximately 22
     miles north of Boston. The leases at the two primary facilities,
     representing 32,000 of square feet, expire in April, 2000. All leases have
     options to extend at market rates.

     The Company's facilities include fabrication areas for medical and dental
     device manufacture, and development facilities for laboratory and
     durability testing of plastics and electronics.

     ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
     ------   -----------------

     As of March 31, 1995, the Company was not a party to any material pending
     legal proceedings other than routine litigation incidental to the Company's
     business.

     ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE TO SECURITY HOLDERS
     ------   ---------------------------------------------------

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
     quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 1995.

                                      -21-

 
     PART II
     -------

     ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
     ------   -------------------------------------------------------------
     MATTERS
     -------


     Market Price
     ------------

       The Company's Common Stock, $.01 par value, is traded on the Nasdaq
     National Market under the symbol "ABMD". No public trading market exists
     for the Company's Class A Common Stock, $.01 par value. The following table
     sets forth the range of high and low sales prices on the Nasdaq National
     Market for the Company's two most recent fiscal years:

                              Common Stock Price



     Number of Stockholders
     ----------------------

     As of June 1, 1995, there were approximately 497 holders of record of the
     Company's Common Stock, and there were two holders of record of the
     Company's Class A Common Stock.

     Dividends
     ---------

     The Company has never paid any cash dividends on its capital stock and does
     not plan to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The current
     policy of the Company's Board of Directors is to retain any future earnings
     for use in the business of the Company.

                                      -22-

 
     ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
     ------   -----------------------

                     SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
                     (In thousands, except per share data)



(1) No dividends on Common Stock were declared or paid during any of the periods
 presented.

                                      -23-

 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         -----------------------------------------------------------------------
         OF OPERATIONS
         -------------

Summary
- -------

Historically, ABIOMED has emphasized long-term product research and development,
and Company revenues and expenses have primarily been attributable to this
research and development. This emphasis continued in fiscal 1995 and 1994, with
a variety of products being developed internally and under government contracts.
However, since fiscal 1994, the first full year marketing the BVS in the U.S.,
increasing sales of the BVS have made product and service revenues the largest
contributor to the Company's operating results.  At the end of fiscal 1995, the
BVS console and blood pumps had been sold to over 100 medical centers in the
U.S., with sales of the number of disposable blood pumps increasing by more than
40% in the second half of fiscal 1995 as compared to the first half of the year
and by more than 25% in the fourth quarter of the year as compared to the third
quarter.

The BVS was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for sale in
November 1992, and the Company launched the product domestically through its
direct sales and marketing organization in early calendar 1993.  Since that
time, the Company has built a domestic sales, support and marketing team for the
BVS consisting of 19 people.  The Company believes that this sales team and the
effectiveness of the BVS in saving lives are the primary reasons for increases
in product and services revenues in both fiscal 1995 and 1994.

The domestic sales effort was advanced by a successful ABIOMED campaign to
reverse the Health Care Financing Administration's ("HCFA") existing coverage
policy, which had previously denied Medicare reimbursement for cardiac assist
devices.  This policy was changed in October 1993 to specifically state that the
ABIOMED BVS was a reimbursable cardiac assist device.

Increases in PerioTemp product revenues from the Company's dental subsidiary
also helped to improve the Company's consolidated performance during both fiscal
1995 and 1994.

Consolidated total revenues, excluding interest income, for fiscal 1995 rose to
a record $9,230,000 compared to $6,675,000 in fiscal 1994 and $3,445,000 in
fiscal 1993, representing increases of 38% and 94% for fiscal 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  Net losses declined in both fiscal 1995 and 1994.  Net losses in
fiscal 1995 were approximately $352,000 ($0.05 per share) compared to net losses
of $1,983,000 ($0.31 per share) and $3,893,000 ($0.60 per share) in fiscal 1994
and 1993, respectively.  Net loss for the last six months of fiscal 1995 totaled
approximately $46,000, or less than $0.01 per share, and consisted of net losses
of approximately $16,000 and $30,000 for the fiscal quarters ended March 31,
1995 and December 31, 1994, respectively.  Net losses were approximately $91,000
and $216,000 for the fiscal quarters ended September 30, 1994 and June 30, 1994,
respectively.

                                      -24-

 
Product and Service Revenues
- ----------------------------

Product and service revenues increased to $6,893,000 in fiscal 1995 from
$4,648,000 in fiscal 1994, and $1,709,000 in fiscal 1993 (Table 1).  The 48%
increase in fiscal 1995 product and service revenues was primarily attributable
to growing U.S. unit sales of the BVS.  The increase in fiscal 1994 was
primarily attributable to increased U.S. unit sales in the first full year after
FDA approval.

 
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

During fiscal 1995 and 1994, unit sales of the BVS console, the BVS blood pumps
and related accessories each increased over the prior year.  In fiscal 1994, the
majority of product and service revenues were derived from sales of systems to
new customers.  In fiscal 1995, sales were balanced between sales to new
customers and reorders from existing customers, with reorders of the disposable
products to the installed customer base growing faster than sales of systems to
new customers.

The increases in product and service revenues also reflect increases in
PerioTemp sales by the Company's dental subsidiary in each of the last two
fiscal years.  However, PerioTemp product and service revenues continue to
represent less than ten percent of total product and service revenues.

The majority of the Company's product and service revenues in the two fiscal
years since FDA approval of the BVS have been to U.S. customers.  International
sales represented 13% and 17% of total product and service revenues in fiscal
1995 and 1994, respectively.

Contract Revenues
- -----------------

The Company's research and development subsidiary completed fiscal 1995 with
$2,338,000 in contract revenues, compared with contract revenues of $2,027,000
in fiscal 1994 and $1,737,000 in fiscal 1993, representing increases of 15% and
17% for fiscal 1995 and 1994, respectively (Table 2).  These revenues are based
upon cost reimbursement and, therefore, reflect the level of the Company's
research and development activity in each year.

                                      -25-

 
The Company was awarded its largest contract ever, in September 1993, by the
National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI) for the continued development
of a total artificial heart.  This is a two-phase seven year contract for $13.5
million.  The first phase, which represents approximately $4.9 million,
commenced September 30, 1993 and runs through September 30, 1996, of which $2.7
million remained at March 31, 1995. Contingent upon successful completion of
this phase, as determined by NHLBI, the contract provides for a second phase
continuation for the remaining contract balance of approximately $8.6 million.
The NHLBI has indicated that only two of the three scientific teams will qualify
for funding for the second phase.

At March 31, 1995, the Company was working on a number of contracts and grants
representing a total backlog, excluding the second phase of the TAH contract, of
approximately $3.5 million.  The Company has submitted proposals for funding on
several additional projects, including funding for further development of the
Pediatric Pump of which $550,000 was approved by NHLBI in May 1995.  All such
government contracts contain provisions making them terminable at the
convenience of the government.

Recent FY96 budget resolutions proposed by the House and Senate Committees
include cuts in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) of which
NHLBI is a part.  The House budget resolution encourages a 5% reduction in NIH-
supported research funding.  The Senate resolution is silent on the magnitude of
such a proposed cut.  These are in contrast with the Administration's proposal
to increase NIH funding by 4.1% in FY96.  It is not clear whether any of these
proposed cuts will be implemented, or if they are, that they will affect the
level of funding of the Company's externally-funded research and development
activities.

 
- -------------------------------------------------------------

Costs and Expenses
- ------------------

Costs and expenses for fiscal 1995 totaled $10,032,000 compared to $9,195,000
and $7,942,000 in fiscal 1994 and 1993, respectively, representing increases of
9% and 16% for fiscal 1995 and 1994, respectively.  These increases in fiscal
1995 primarily reflect increased costs related to product sales.  Table 3 sets
forth the costs and expenses for the last three fiscal years.

                                      -26-

 

- -----------------------------------------------------------------

The 49% increase in the cost of product and service revenues in fiscal 1995 over
fiscal 1994 primarily reflects the increase in product and service revenues.
The 8% increase in the cost of product and service revenues in fiscal 1994 over
fiscal 1993 primarily reflects the increase in product and service revenues
partially offset by higher margins.  Cost of product and service revenues
represented approximately 48% of product and service revenues in both fiscal
1995 and 1994 compared to over 100% of product and service revenues in fiscal
1993.  The increase in sales margins in fiscal 1994 compared to fiscal 1993 was
primarily attributable to both increased selling prices and decreased unit
costs.  The increased selling prices were primarily attributable to the increase
in sales in the U.S. where the Company sells the BVS directly through its
domestic sales force, as compared to foreign sales, where the Company sells the
BVS through its network of distributors.  Decreased units costs for both the BVS
console and the BVS blood pumps resulted from decreases in direct manufacturing
costs and more effective absorption of fixed overhead expenses with higher
manufacturing volume.  The Company believes that increased manufacturing volumes
and productivity gains will continue to reduce BVS product costs.  Royalties
due to Abiomed Limited Partnership, which could be as much as 4.9% of BVS
product revenues, will be added to the cost of product and service revenues in
fiscal 1995.  As discussed below, the Company has made an offer to buy back the
limited partnership units which, to the extent accepted, would fix the amount of
royalty cost which otherwise is 4.9% through August 3, 2000.

Costs of research and development increased to $2,465,000 in fiscal 1995
compared to $2,430,000 and $2,097,000 in fiscal 1994 and 1993, respectively.
These increases reflect increased activity under research contracts and grants
which are billed on a cost-plus-fixed-fee basis.  Costs of internal research
and development primarily relate to continued engineering 

                                      -27-

 
support and improvement of existing products and to continued development of
internally developed products such as SupraCor.

Selling, general and administrative expenses (S,G&A) decreased to $4,278,000 in
fiscal 1995 from $4,553,000 in fiscal 1994.  This decrease primarily reflects
decreased net costs derived from Abiomed Limited Partnership prior to the
Company's settlement of its Net Minimum Royalty Obligation with the Partnership
on March 29, 1995.  The decrease in S,G&A costs also reflects the effect of
$106,000 of non-recurring costs incurred in fiscal 1994.   S,G&A costs increased
to $4,553,000 in fiscal 1994 from $3,803,000 in fiscal 1993.  This increase was
primarily due to a substantial investment in the initial development of the
Company's cardiovascular marketing, sales and service organization and to the
non-recurring costs discussed above.  The fiscal 1994 increase in selling
expenses was partially offset by a decline in general and administrative
expenses.

Interest and Other Revenues and Expenses
- ----------------------------------------

Interest income, net of interest and other expenses, totaled approximately
$449,000, $537,000 and $604,000, for fiscal 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
The decrease in interest income in fiscal 1995 compared to fiscal 1993 primarily
reflects lower investment balances for the majority of fiscal 1995.   The
Company's balance of cash and marketable securities decreased throughout fiscal
1994 and decreased $1,339,000 in the first fiscal quarter of fiscal 1995 before
increasing $819,000, $270,000 and $989,000 in each of the following three
quarters of fiscal 1995, respectively, for a net fiscal 1995 increase of
$739,000.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

As of March 31, 1995, the Company's balance sheet included $11,025,000 in cash
and marketable securities, an increase of $739,000 over the Company's
$10,286,000 balance of cash and marketable securities at March 31, 1994.  The
March 31, 1995 balance includes $614,000 in cash, $3,877,000 invested in
marketable investments that at the time had maturities of less than one year
(short-term) and $6,533,000 invested in marketable securities with various
maturities of over one year (long-term), the latest of which was in October
1996.  Net working capital at March 31, 1995, excluding the long-term
investments in marketable securities, was $6,304,000 compared to $6,043,000 at
March 31, 1994.   The increase in cash and marketable securities for fiscal 1995
primarily reflects reduced inventories and improved collections of accounts
receivable.   The increase in net working capital of $261,000 primarily reflects
maturities of long-term investments partially offset by the Company's net
operating loss.  The Company also has a $3,000,000 line of credit from a bank
which expires in December 1995.  There were no borrowings against this line of
credit in fiscal 1995.  The line of credit, if used, bears interest at the
bank's prime rate.

During fiscal 1995, the Company in a non-cash transaction eliminated all of its
long-term debt through the exchange of the Company's Common Stock.  In this
transaction, as discussed above, the Company fully satisfied its Net Minimum
Royalty Obligation to Abiomed Limited Partnership.  Prior to this March 29, 1995
transaction, the Company reported an obligation to

                                      -28-


Abiomed Limited Partnership of approximately $3,490,000. The Company offset
approximately $380,000 of this debt with its reported 10.9% ownership interest
in the Partnership. The remaining $3,109,000 was satisfied through the issuance
of 451,427 shares of the Company's Common Stock.

In May 1995, the Company offered $10,000 in cash in exchange for each of the 135
limited partner units in Abiomed Limited Partnership, including each limited
partner's pro rata share of the 4.9% royalty due to the Partnership on sales of
BVS product and SupraCor product between April 1, 1995 and August 3, 2000.  If
all of the limited partners accept this offer, the cost to the Company would
total $1,350,000 in lieu of the product royalty.

Although the Company does not currently have significant capital commitments
other than as described above, the Company believes that it will continue to
make significant investments over the next several years to support the
development and commercialization of its products.  The Company believes that
its revenues and its existing resources should be sufficient to meet its needs
for the current fiscal year.

Health Care Reform
- ------------------

Private and government proposals for significant health care reform are expected
to continue to affect health care expenditures in the United States as well as
internationally where the Company sells or plans to sell its products.  The
Company cannot assess at this time the potential impact that healthcare trends
may have on future operating results because of the uncertainties surrounding
any foreseeable changes.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- ------   -------------------------------------------

The consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of the Company are
listed under Part IV, Item 14, in this Report.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON   ACCOUNTING AND
- ------   -------------------------------------------------  --------------
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
         --------------------

There were no disagreements on accounting principles or practices or financial
statement disclosure between the Company and its accountants during the fiscal
year ended March 31, 1995.

                                      -29-

 
                                   PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- -------  --------------------------------------------------

The information required by this Item 10 is hereby incorporated by reference to
the text appearing under Part I, Item 1--Business under the caption "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" in this Report, and by reference to the Company's
definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company within 120 days after the
close of its fiscal year.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
- -------  ----------------------

The information required by this Item 11 is hereby incorporated by reference to
the information under the heading "Executive Compensation" in the Company's
definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company within 120 days after the
close of its fiscal year.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
- -------  --------------------------------------------------------------

The information required by this Item 12 is hereby incorporated by reference to
the information under the heading "Securities Beneficially Owned by Directors,
Officers and Principal Stockholders" in the Company's definitive proxy statement
to be filed by the Company within 120 days after the close of its fiscal year.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- -------  ----------------------------------------------

The information required by this Item 13 is hereby incorporated by reference to
the information under the heading "Certain Transactions", if any, in the
Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company within 120 days
after the close of its fiscal year.

                                      -30-

 
                                    PART IV
                                    -------

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
- -------  ----------------------------------------------------------------

(A) (1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
        --------------------

 1.     Report of Arthur Andersen LLP dated May 11, 1995. (See page F-1 hereof.)

 2.     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 1994 and 1995  (See page F-2
        hereof.)

 3.     Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended March 31,
        1993, 1994, and 1995. (See page F-3 hereof.)

 4.     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Investment for the years ended
        March 31, 1993, 1995 and 1995.  (See page F-4 hereof.)

 5.     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended March 31,
        1993, 1994, and 1995. (See page F-5 hereof.)

 6.     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (See pages F-6 - F-15
        hereof.)

(A) (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
        -----------------------------

        Supplemental schedules are not provided because of the absence of
        conditions under which they are required or because the required
        information is given in the financial statements or notes thereto.

(A) (3) EXHIBITS
        --------

        (3)  Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws.

               (a)  Certificate of Incorporation - filed as Exhibit 3.01 to
                    Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No, 33-
                    14861) (the "1987 Registration Statement").*

               (b)  Restated By-Laws - filed as Exhibit 3(b) to the Company's
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March
                    31, 1991 (the "1991 Form 10-K").*

        (4)    Instruments defining the rights of Security Holders, including
               Indentures.

               (a)  Specimen Certificate of Common Stock - filed as Exhibit 4.01
                    to the 1987 Registration Statement.*

                                      -31-

 
        (10) Material Contracts.

             (a)  Cross-License Agreement between the Company and the Abiomed
             Limited Partnership (the "Partnership") - filed as Exhibit 10.02 to
             the 1987 Registration Statement.*

             (b)  Research and Development Agreement between the Company and the
             Partnership - filed as Exhibit 10.03 to the 1987 Registration
             Statement.*

             (c)  Option to Purchase Developed Technology between the Company
             and the Partnership - filed as Exhibit 10.06 to the 1987
             Registration Statement.*

             (d)  Bill of Sale and Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property
             Agreement between the Company and the Partnership - filed as
             Exhibit 10(b) to the 1991 Form 10-K.*

             (e)  Facility Leases dated September 30, 1993 for the premises at
             33 Cherry Hill Drive - filed as Exhibit 10(e) to the 1994 Form 10-
             K*                              -------
                                                                   
             (f)  Form of Indemnification Agreement for Directors and Officers -
             filed as Exhibit 10.13 to the 1987 Registration Statement.*

             (g)  Abiomed Limited Partnership Amended and Restated Certificate
             and Agreement of Limited Partnership (without schedule of 
             Partners)-filed as Exhibit 10.15 to the 1987 Registration 
             Statement.*

             (h)  1992 Combination Stock Option Plan - filed as Exhibit 10(I) to
             the 1993 Form 10-K * *

             (i)  1988 Employee Stock Purchase Plan - filed as Exhibit 10(p) to
             the 1988 Form 10-K.* *                            -------

             (j)  1989 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
             Directors-corrected copy.

             (k)  NIH Contract for Total Artificial Heart - filed as Exhibit
             10(s) to the 1988 Form 10-K.*                           ------- 

             (l)  Promissory Note and Security Agreement of the Abiomed Limited
             Partnership - filed as Exhibit 10(r) to the 1989 Registration
                                    -------                               
             Statement.*

             (m)  Federal (NHLBI) Contract for Phased Readiness Testing of an
             Implantable Total Artificial Heart (Filed as Exhibit 10 to the
             Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
             September 30, 1993).*

                                      -32-

 
             (n)  Facility Lease dated September 30, 1993 as amended on November
             19, 1993 for the premises at 24B Cherry Hill Drive - filed as
             Exhibit 10(p) to the 1994 Form 10-K. *
             ------- 

        (11) Computation of Per Share Earnings - see Note 1(f), Notes to
        Consolidated Financial Statements.

        (22) Subsidiaries of the Registrant - filed as Exhibit 22 to the 1994
        Form 10K. *

        (24) Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

        (27) Financial Data Schedule.

(B)     REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
        -------------------

        The Company did not file any current reports on Form 8-K during the
        quarter ended March 31, 1995.


____________
*       In accordance with Rule 12b-32 under the Securities Exchange Act of
 1934, as amended, reference is made to the documents previously filed with the
 Securities and Exchange Commission, which documents are hereby incorporated by
 reference.

**      Compensatory plan or arrangement.

                                      -33-

 
                                  SIGNATURES
                                  ----------


  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                 ABIOMED, Inc.

Dated:  June 26, 1994            By:   /s/ David M. Lederman
                                      -------------------------
                                      David M. Lederman, Chairman
                                      of the Board, President
                                      Principal Executive Officer


  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.



                                      -34-

 
 

                                      -35-

 
                         ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       Consolidated Financial Statements
                         as of March 31, 1994 and 1995
                         Together with Auditors' Report

 
                                     INDEX

 

 
                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS



To ABIOMED, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ABIOMED, Inc. (a
Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of March 31, 1994 and 1995, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' investment and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 1995.  These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of ABIOMED, Inc. and subsidiaries
as of March 31, 1994 and 1995, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 1995, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.


                                       /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

Boston, Massachusetts
May 11, 1995

                                      F-1

 
                         ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          Consolidated Balance Sheets

 
                                                           
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                      F-2

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                      F-3

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

              Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Investment

                              (Notes 2, 6 and 7)
 


  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                      F-4

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                      F-5

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                March 31, 1995

                                  (Continued)


(1)  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     ABIOMED(R), Inc. (the Company) is engaged primarily in the research,
     development and commercialization of medical devices, with a primary focus
     on the development of cardiac support systems. The Company has received FDA
     approval for certain products. In particular, in November 1992 the Company
     received FDA approval for its BVS-5000(R) system, a bi-ventricular
     temporary artificial heart, from which the majority of the Company's
     present product and service revenues are derived. The accompanying
     consolidated financial statements reflect the application of certain
     significant accounting policies described below.

     (a)  Principles of Consolidation

          The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
          accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries, ABIOMED
          Cardiovascular, Inc., ABD Holding Company, Inc., ABIOMED Research and
          Development, Inc., ABIOMED R&D, Inc. and ABIODENT(R), Inc. All
          significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
          eliminated in consolidation.

     (b)  Product and Service Revenues

          The Company recognizes revenues on products and services at the time
          the products are shipped to the customer and at the time the services
          are provided. In fiscal 1993, 1994 and 1995, 39%, 17% and 13%,
          respectively, of product and service revenues were to customers
          located outside of the United States. During fiscal 1993, the latter
          part of which the BVS-5000 received FDA approval, three customers
          accounted for 38% of product and services sales. No customer accounted
          for greater than 10% of product and service revenues during fiscal
          1994 or 1995.

     (c)  Contract Accounting

          The Company accounts for contracts by applying the percentage-of-
          completion method. The percentage of completion under these contracts
          is determined by relating the actual cost of work performed to date on
          each contract to the contract's estimated final cost. For contracts
          that extend over one year, revisions in cost and profit estimates
          during the course of the contract work are reflected in the accounting
          period during which the facts that require the revision become known.

          In fiscal 1993, 1994 and 1995, all of the Company's research and
          development contract revenues were generated from contracts and grants
          with various government agencies. Each of these contracts and grants
          provide for revenues on a cost-plus-fixed-fee basis. The Company
          retains the rights to all technological discoveries and products
          generated from these efforts.

                                      F-6

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                March 31, 1995

                                  (Continued)


(1)  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

     (d)  Inventories

          Inventories include raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods,
          are priced at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market and
          consist of the following:

                                              
          Finished goods and work-in-process inventories consist of direct 
          material, labor and overhead.

     (e)  Depreciation and Amortization

          The Company provides for depreciation and amortization by charges to
          operations in amounts that allocate the cost of depreciable assets
          over their estimated useful lives as follows:

 

     (f)  Net Loss per Common Share

          Net loss per common share has been computed by dividing net loss by
          the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
          year. Other Common Stock equivalents outstanding, including stock
          options and warrants, have not been considered in the computations, as
          the effect of their inclusion would be antidilutive.

                                      F-7

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                March 31, 1995

                                  (Continued)


(1)  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

     (g)  Cash and Cash Equivalents

          The Company classifies any marketable security with an original
          maturity date of 90 days or less at the time of acquisition to be a
          cash equivalent.

     (h)  Investments

          The Company classifies any security, including marketable securities,
          with an original maturity of greater than 90 days as investments and
          classifies investments with a maturity of greater than one year from
          the balance sheet date as long-term investments.

          Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 115,
          Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, as
          adopted by the Company on March 31, 1994, investments that the Company
          has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are reported
          at amortized cost and classified as held-to-maturity. The Company has
          classified all investments at March 31, 1995 as held-to-maturity.

          The amortized cost and estimated fair market values of the Company's
          securities at March 31, 1995 are presented below.



     (i)  Reclassifications

          The accompanying consolidated financial statements as of March 31,
          1994 contains certain accounts that have been reclassified to conform
          with the current March 31, 1995 presentation.

                                      F-8

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                March 31, 1995

                                  (Continued)


(2)  Capital Stock

     Each share of Common Stock has a voting right of one vote per share and
     generally has the right to elect, as a class, at least 25% of the Company's
     directors. Each share of Common Stock is entitled to receive 5% more in
     distributions per share than each share of the Class A Common Stock when
     the Company declares a dividend (other than a stock dividend) or
     liquidating distribution.

     Each share of Class A Common Stock has a voting right of 10 votes per share
     and may be converted at any time into one share of Common Stock at the
     election of the holder. The Class A Common Stock automatically converts
     into Common Stock upon the occurrence of certain events. In particular, all
     Class A Common shares automatically convert to Common Stock and thereby
     lose their preferential voting rights, if any such shares held by the
     Company's founder are sold.

     The Company has authorized 1,000,000 shares of Class B Preferred Stock,
     $.01 par value, of which the designation, rights and privileges can be set
     by the Board of Directors. No shares of Class B Preferred Stock have been
     issued or are outstanding.

(3)  Line of Credit with a Bank

     The Company has an unsecured line of credit under which it can borrow up to
     $3,000,000 from a bank at the bank's prime rate (9.00% at March 31, 1995).
     The Company is required to maintain a compensating balance of $150,000 plus
     5% of any amounts outstanding under the arrangement. This line expires in
     December 1995. There were no borrowings under the Company's line of credit
     at March 31, 1994 and 1995.

(4)  Income Taxes

     The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of
     SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The asset and liability approach
     used under SFAS No. 109 requires a recognition of deferred tax assets and
     liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary
     differences between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of other assets
     and liabilities.

     At March 31, 1995, the Company had available net operating loss
     carryforwards of approximately $20,880,000. The Company also had available,
     at March 31, 1995, approximately $550,000 of tax credits to reduce future
     federal income taxes, if any. The net operating loss and tax credit
     carryforwards expire through 2010. These carryforwards are subject to
     review by the Internal Revenue Service and may be subject to limitation in
     any given year under certain conditions.

                                      F-9

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                March 31, 1995

                                  (Continued)


(4)  Income Taxes (Continued)
 
     The Company has not given recognition to any of these tax benefits in the
     accompanying consolidated financial statements due to the uncertainty
     surrounding the timing of the realization of the tax benefits. The Company
     has placed a valuation allowance of approximately $11,321,000 as of March
     31, 1995 against its otherwise recognizable net deferred tax asset.

     The deferred tax asset as of March 31, 1994 and 1995 consisted of the
     following:

 

(5)  Commitments

     The Company leases its facilities under various operating lease agreements
     with terms through fiscal 2000. Total rent expense under these leases,
     included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, was
     approximately $296,000, $265,000 and $262,000 for fiscal 1993, 1994 and
     1995, respectively. Future minimum lease payments under these agreements
     are as follows:



                                      F-10

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                March 31, 1995

                                  (Continued)


(6)  Stock Option Plans

     All stock options granted by the Company under the below described plans
     were granted at the fair value of the stock at the date of grant.
     Outstanding stock options, if not exercised, expire 10 years from the date
     of grant.

     The 1992 Combination Stock Option Plan (the Combination Plan), approved by
     the Company's stockholders in September 1992, combined and restated the
     Company's then outstanding Incentive Stock Option Plan and Nonqualified
     Plan. The options generally become exercisable ratably over five years. All
     options granted under the Combination Plan during the three years ended
     March 31, 1995 were to employees.

     In addition, the Company has a nonqualified stock option plan for
     nonemployee directors (the Directors' Plan). The Directors' Plan, as
     adopted in July 1989 and amended, with shareholder approval, in August
     1992, granted options to purchase 12,500 shares of the Company's Common
     Stock to each of the Company's then elected outside directors and provides
     for grants of options to purchase 12,500 shares of the Company's Common
     Stock to any newly elected eligible director. Thereafter, each eligible
     director will be granted a new option to purchase 12,500 shares of Common
     Stock on July 1 of each successive fifth year. These options vest over a
     five-year period at the rate of 2,500 shares per year, commencing on June
     30 of the year following the date of grant.

                                      F-11

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                March 31, 1995

                                  (Continued)


(6)  Stock Option Plans (Continued)

     The following table summarizes stock option activity under these plans:



     The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the Purchase Plan). Under
     the Purchase Plan, all employees (including officers and directors) of the
     Company who have completed 18 months of employment are eligible to purchase
     the Company's Common Stock at an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair
     market value of the Common Stock. The Company has reserved 100,000 shares
     of Common Stock for issuance under the Purchase Plan, of which 92,611
     shares are available for future issuance as of March 31, 1995. During the
     years ended March 31, 1994 and 1995, 1,876 shares and 639 shares,
     respectively, of Common Stock were sold pursuant to the Purchase Plan.

                                      F-12

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                March 31, 1995

                                  (Continued)


(7)  Abiomed Limited Partnership

     (a)  Background

          Abiomed Limited Partnership (the Partnership) was established in 1985
          and, under agreement with the Company, provided initial funding for
          development of two of the Company's products. These two products (the
          Products) are BVS 5000 and SupraCor(TM) (formerly ICS). The
          Partnership consists of one hundred thirty-five limited partners, each
          of whom is unrelated to the Company, a sole general partner, which is
          the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Abiomed Research and
          Development, Inc., and a special limited partner, which is the
          Company's wholly owned subsidiary, ABIOMED Cardiovascular, Inc.
          (Cardiovascular). The limited partners combine to hold a 89.1%
          interest in the Partnership. The Company holds a 10.9% interest
          comprised of 1.0% by the general partner and 10.9% by the special
          limited partner.

          The Partnership entered into a research and development agreement (the
          Agreement) with the Company whereby the Company performed certain
          research and development activities for the Partnership. Under the
          terms of the Agreement, the Company loaned to the Partnership
          $3,080,647 for additional development of the Products through May 24,
          1989. Interest on this loan accrued at a bank's prime rate plus 1%
          through March 29, 1995 when, as discussed below, the full amount of
          loan principal and interest was settled. Interest income of $331,000,
          $347,000 and $403,000 for fiscal 1993, 1994 and 1995, respectively,
          has been recorded as an offset against selling, general and
          administrative expenses. This note receivable and related accrued
          interest receivable are netted against the liability owed to the
          Partnership from the technology purchase option discussed below.

     (b)  Exercise of Purchase Options

          On August 3, 1990, Cardiovascular exercised its options to acquire all
          of the Partnership's rights, title and interest in the Products and in
          the technology developed under the Agreement. Under the purchase
          options, Cardiovascular is obligated through August 3, 2000 to make
          royalty payments to the Partnership of 5.5% of the revenues from the
          Products, as defined, subject to limits of $16,006,000 and $33,807,000
          in the aggregate for BVS and SupraCor, respectively, and subject to
          minimum royalty payments for the period ended March 31, 1995 of
          $2,853,390 and $6,413,010 for BVS and SupraCor, respectively (the
          Minimum Royalty Amounts).

          For financial reporting purposes, the exercise of the purchase option
          in fiscal 1991 was recorded as a purchase of technology by the Company
          from the Partnership. The value of the purchase price, $7,514,000 was
          determined based on the discounted present value of the minimum
          royalty payments to the Partnership. Of this amount, $7,163,000 was
          charged to expense in 1991 and $351,000 was capitalized and amortized
          as expense over the five year period ended March 31,

                                      F-13

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                March 31, 1995

                                  (Continued)


(7)  Abiomed Limited Partnership (Continued)

     (b)  Exercise of Purchase Options (Continued)

          1995. The capitalized amount was based on the value of the products
          completed at that time. The discounted portion of the minimum royalty
          payments has been accreted as interest expense over the five year
          period ended March 31, 1994 resulting in expense of $411,000, $307,000
          and $191,000 for fiscal 1993, 1994 and 1995, respectively. These
          amounts are recorded as part of selling, general and administrative
          expenses.

          As further discussed below, on March 29, 1995, the Company paid the
          Minimum Royalty Amounts to the Partnership through the issuance of the
          Company's Common Stock, net of the royalty amounts remitted previously
          to the Partnership which totaled approximately $102,000. The Company
          continues to be obligated through August 3, 2000 to make royalty
          payments to the Partnership of 5.5% of revenues from the Products made
          after March 31, 1995 and on or before August 3, 2000, subject to the
          limits discussed above, and the Company continues to hold a 10.9%
          interest in all such Royalty Payments. Moreover, under the provisions
          of the purchase options, although Cardiovascular does not anticipate
          selling or licensing its rights to the technology of either Product,
          Cardiovascular would be required to pay the Partnership a royalty of
          50% of certain amounts Cardiovascular received if the technology were
          to be sold or licensed in other than the ordinary course of business.

          Prior to payment on March 29, 1995, these cumulative minimum royalties
          were offset against the notes receivable and accrued interest due from
          the Partnership and against certain advance payments made by the
          Company on behalf of the Partnership. The net of these amounts was
          historically reported as a liability in the Company's accompanying
          consolidated balance sheets. The net liability at the time of payment
          on March 29, 1995, including the full amount of minimum royalties
          through March 31, 1995, was $3,489,818 (the Net Minimum Royalty
          Obligation).

     (c)  Satisfaction of Net Minimum Royalty

          On March 29, 1995, the Company issued 451,427 shares of Common Stock
          to the Partnership in satisfaction of the limited partners' 89.1%
          interest in the $3,489,818 Net Minimum Royalty Obligation. The Company
          and the Partnership agreed to waive payment by the Company of the
          Company's 10.9% interest in the Net Minimum Royalty Obligation. In
          accordance with the terms of the Agreement, the Common Stock issued to
          the Partnership was valued based on the average closing price of the
          Common Stock for the ten trading days immediately preceding the date
          of issuance. The Company has registered these shares for resale by the
          Partnership and is assisting the Partnership in its efforts to
          distribute the shares to the limited partners. In connection with this
          issuance of shares and related Registration Statement, the Company
          incurred costs of approximately $51,573, which were netted against
          paid-in capital.

                                      F-14

 
                        ABIOMED, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                March 31, 1995

                                  (Continued)


(8)  Employee Deferred Compensation Profit-sharing Plan and Trust

     The Company has an Employee Deferred Compensation Profit-sharing Plan and
     Trust (the 401(k) Plan) that covers all employees over 20 years of age who
     have completed at least six months of service with the Company.
     Contributions by the Company are determined by the Company's Board of
     Directors and totaled approximately $40,000, $31,000 and $36,000 for the
     fiscal years ended March 31, 1993, 1994 and 1995, respectively.

(9)  Accrued Expenses

     Accrued expenses consist of the following:

 

(10) Supplemental Disclosure of Noncash Investing and Financing Activity

     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the following
     noncash investing and financing activity in the year ended March 31, 1995:



                                      F-15

