Item 1.BUSINESS



Overview

Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as “Amgen,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is a global biotechnology pioneer that discovers, develops, manufactures and delivers innovative human therapeutics.  Our medicines help millions of patients in the fight against cancer, kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), bone disease, and other serious illnesses.  We operate in one business segment: human therapeutics.

We were incorporated in 1980 and organized as a Delaware corporation in 1987. Our public website is www.amgen.com. On our website, investors can find press releases, financial filings and other information about the Company. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) website, www.sec.gov, also offers access to reports and documents we have electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These website addresses are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing.

Our principal products are Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim), a pegylated protein, based on the Filgrastim molecule, and NEUPOGEN®(Filgrastim), a recombinant-methionyl human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), both of which stimulate the production of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell that helps the body fight infection); Enbrel®(etanercept), an inhibitor of tumor necrosis factor (TNF), a substance that plays a role in inflammatory diseases; Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa) and EPOGEN®(epoetin alfa), erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) that stimulate the production of red blood cells; and XGEVA®/Prolia®(denosumab), two products that contain the same active ingredient but which are approved for different indications, patient populations, doses and frequencies of administration. Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody that specifically targets RANKL, an essential regulator of osteoclasts (the cells that break down bone). Our principal products represented 89%, 90% and 92% of our sales in2012,2011and2010, respectively. Our other marketed products include primarily Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet), a small molecule calcimimetic that lowers serum calcium levels; Vectibix®(panitumumab), a monoclonal antibody that binds specifically to the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFr); and Nplate®(romiplostim), a thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor agonist that mimics endogenous TPO, the primary driver of platelet production.

We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United States, Europe and Canada. We have also entered into agreements with third parties to assist in the commercialization and marketing of certain of our products in specified geographic areas. (See Business Relationships.) Together with our partners, we market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies.

In addition to our marketed products, we have various product candidates in mid- to late-stage development in a variety of therapeutic areas, including oncology, hematology, inflammation, bone health, nephrology, cardiovascular and general medicine, which includes neuroscience. Our research and development (R&D) organization has expertise in multiple treatment modalities, including large molecules (such as proteins, antibodies and peptibodies) and small molecules.

Our manufacturing operations consist of bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish and distribution activities for all of our principal products as well as most of our product candidates. We operate a number of commercial and/or clinical manufacturing facilities, and our primary manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Netherlands. See Item 2. Properties.

Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and risky; and failure rates are high. Product development cycles are very long — approximately 10 to 15 years from discovery to market. A potential new medicine must undergo many years of preclinical and clinical testing to establish its safety and efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels and with an acceptable benefit-risk profile. Biological products, which are produced in living systems, are inherently complex due to naturally occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory-scale processes into reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. Upon approval, marketed products in our industry generally face substantial competition.

Our industry is highly regulated, and various U.S. and foreign regulatory bodies have substantial authority over how we conduct our business. Government authorities in the United States and other countries regulate the manufacturing and marketing of our products as well as our ongoing R&D activities. In recent years, regulators have placed a greater scrutiny on drug safety. This has led to, and may in the future lead to: fewer products being approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or other regulatory bodies; delays in receiving approvals; additional safety-related requirements; restrictions on the use of products, including expanded safety labeling, or required risk management activities.












Significant Developments

Following is a summary of significant developments that occurred in 2012 affecting our business.

Products/Pipeline

AMG 145

•In November 2012, we presented data from four phase 2 studies evaluating AMG 145 as monotherapy, in combination with statin therapy, in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, and in statin-intolerant subjects. In each of these studies, treatment with AMG 145 resulted in statistically significant reductions in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol  compared to the control arms at 12 weeks. Based on the study results, phase 3 enrollment is underway in these populations.

Sensipar®/Mimpara®

•In November 2012, we presented at American Society of Nephrology's (ASN) Kidney Week the results of the phase 3 E.V.O.L.V.E™(EValuation Of Cinacalcet HCl Therapy to Lower CardioVascular Events) trial. As previously reported, the primary analysis showed that the trial did not reach its primary endpoint (time to composite event comprising all-cause mortality or first non-fatal cardiovascular event, including myocardial infarction, hospitalization for unstable angina, heart failure or peripheral vascular event) in the intent-to-treat analysis. See Significant Developments in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2012.

Rilotumumab

•In November 2012, we initiated a phase 3 study for the treatment of gastric cancer.

Brodalumab (AMG 827)

•In October 2012, we announced the start of a phase 3 program in moderate-to-severe psoriasis. The program consists of three phase 3 studies, with ustekinumab and/or placebo controls. Brodalumab is one of five inflammation monoclonal antibodies being jointly developed in the collaboration with AstraZeneca Plc. (AstraZeneca).

XGEVA®

•In April 2012, we announced that the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter for the supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) for XGEVA®to treat men with castration-resistant prostate cancer at high risk of developing bone metastases. The Complete Response Letter states that the FDA cannot approve the application in its present form. The FDA determined that the effect on bone metastases-free survival was of insufficient magnitude to outweigh the risks (including osteonecrosis of the jaw) of XGEVA®in the intended population.

Romosozumab (AMG 785)

•In April 2012, we along with our partner UCB announced the start of two phase 3 clinical studies in postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO). The registrational study is a placebo-controlled trial that will evaluate incidence of new vertebral fractures at 12 and 24 months in 6,000 patients. We are also conducting an active-controlled trial versus alendronate that will evaluate the incidence of clinical fracture and new vertebral fracture at 12 and 24 months in 4,000 patients.

Acquisitions/Collaborations

•In June 2012, we acquired substantially all of the outstanding stock of Mustafa Nevzat Pharmaceuticals (MN), a privately held company that is a leading supplier of pharmaceuticals to the hospital sector and a major supplier of injectable medicines in Turkey. The acquisition provides us with the opportunity to expand our presence in Turkey and the surrounding region.

•In March 2012, we entered into a collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca to jointly develop and commercialize certain monoclonal antibodies from Amgen's clinical inflammation portfolio including brodalumab, AMG 139, AMG 157, AMG 181 and AMG 557. The agreement covers the worldwide development and commercialization except for certain Asian countries for brodalumab and Japan for AMG 557, which are licensed to other third parties.

•In March 2012, we acquired Micromet, Inc. (Micromet), a publicly held biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative antibody-based therapies for the treatment of cancer.














Marketed Products

We market our principal products, Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®, ENBREL, Aranesp®, EPOGEN®, XGEVA®and Prolia®, in supportive cancer care, inflammation, nephrology and bone disease. Certain of our marketed products face — and our product candidates, if approved, are also expected to face — substantial competition. Our products’ competitive positions among other biological and pharmaceutical products may be based on, among other things, safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, patient convenience/delivery devices, price, reimbursement, timing of market entry and patent position and expirations.

®

/NEUPOGEN

®

and Aranesp

®

later in this section.

Further, the introduction of new products or the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or new information about existing products may result in increased competition for our marketed products, even for those protected by patents, or in a reduction of price that we receive from selling our products. In addition, the development of new treatment options or standards of care may reduce the use of our products or may limit the utility and application of ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates.

Most patients receiving our principal products for approved indications are covered by either government or private payer healthcare programs, which influence demand. The reimbursement environment continues to evolve with greater emphasis on both cost containment and demonstration of the economic value of products. In addition, the current worldwide economic conditions have also contributed to increasing pressures on cost containment.

Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)/NEUPOGEN®(Filgrastim)

We were granted an exclusive license to manufacture and market Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®in the United States, Europe, Canada and Australia under a licensing agreement with Kirin-Amgen, Inc. (K-A), a joint venture between Kirin Holdings Company, Limited (Kirin), and Amgen. See Business Relationships — Kirin-Amgen, Inc.












Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®stimulate production of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell important in the body’s fight against infection. Both the treatments for various diseases and the diseases themselves can result in extremely low numbers of neutrophils, a condition called neutropenia. Myelosuppressive chemotherapy, one treatment option for individuals with certain types of cancers, targets cell types that grow rapidly, such as tumor cells. Normal cells that divide rapidly, such as those in the bone marrow that become neutrophils, are also vulnerable to the cytotoxic effects of myelosuppressive chemotherapy, resulting in neutropenia with an increased risk of severe infection. NEUPOGEN®is our registered trademark for Filgrastim, our recombinant-methionyl human G-CSF. Neulasta®is our registered trademark for pegfilgrastim, a pegylated protein based on the Filgrastim molecule. A polyethylene glycol molecule is added to the Filgrastim molecule to make pegfilgrastim. Because pegfilgrastim is eliminated from the body through binding to its receptor on neutrophils and neutrophil precursor cells, pegfilgrastim remains in circulation in the body until neutrophil recovery has occurred. This neutrophil-mediated clearance allows for administration as a single dose per chemotherapy cycle, compared with NEUPOGEN®, which requires more frequent dosing.

We market Neulasta

®

and NEUPOGEN

®

primarily in the United States and Europe. Neulasta

®

was launched in the United States and Europe in 2002 and is indicated to decrease the incidence of infection associated with chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies. Administration of Neulasta

®

in all cycles of chemotherapy is approved for patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy associated with a clinically significant risk of febrile neutropenia. NEUPOGEN

®

was launched in the United States and Europe in 1991. NEUPOGEN

®

is indicated for reducing the incidence of infection as manifested by febrile neutropenia for patients with non-myeloid malignancies undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy associated with a significant incidence of severe neutropenia with fever; reducing the duration of neutropenia and neutropenia-related consequences for patients with non-myeloid malignancies undergoing myeloablative chemotherapy followed by bone marrow transplantation; reducing the incidence and duration of neutropenia-related consequences in symptomatic patients with congenital neutropenia, cyclic neutropenia or idiopathic neutropenia (collectively, severe chronic neutropenia); mobilizing peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) in cancer patients who have undergone myeloablative chemotherapy for stem cell transplantation; and reducing the recovery time of neutrophils and the duration of fever following induction or consolidation chemotherapy treatment in adult patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

Total Neulasta®/NEUPOGEN®sales were as follows (in millions):

201220112010Neulasta®—  U.S.$3,207$3,006$2,654Neulasta®—  rest-of-the-world (ROW)885946904Total Neulasta®4,0923,9523,558NEUPOGEN®— U.S.1,007959932NEUPOGEN®— ROW253301354Total NEUPOGEN®1,2601,2601,286Total Neulasta®/NEUPOGEN®$5,352$5,212$4,844

Our outstanding material patents for pegfilgrastim are described in the following table.

TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Pegylated G-CSF10/20/2015Europe(1)Pegylated G-CSF2/8/2015

(1)This European patent is also entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates covering pegfilgrastim have issued in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, and will expire in 2017.

Our outstanding material patents for Filgrastim are described in the following table.

TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.G-CSF polypeptides12/3/2013U.S.Methods of treatment using G-CSF polypeptides12/10/2013

Our principal European patent related to G-CSF expired in August 2006. Upon expiration of that patent, some companies received approval to market products, including biosimilars, that compete with NEUPOGEN®and Neulasta®in Europe, as further discussed below.












Our outstanding material U.S. patents for Filgrastim (NEUPOGEN®) expire in December 2013. We expect to face competition in the United States beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013, which may have a material adverse impact over time on future sales of NEUPOGEN®and, in turn, Neulasta®. See discussion of Teva below.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating neutropenia associated with chemotherapy, for bone marrow and PBPC transplant patients, severe chronic neutropenia and AML could negatively impact Neulasta®and/or NEUPOGEN®sales. Neulasta®and/or NEUPOGEN®sales may also be impacted by increases or decreases in the use of myelosuppressive chemotherapy, which may result from changes in the number of patients being treated, changes to treatment protocols or the introduction of new cancer treatments that may not be myelosuppressive. Further, NEUPOGEN®competes with Neulasta®in the United States and Europe, and NEUPOGEN®sales have been adversely impacted by conversion to Neulasta®, which we believe is substantially complete.

The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that compete with Neulasta®and/or NEUPOGEN®in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care setting. The table below and the following discussion of competitor marketed products and products in development may not be exhaustive.

TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Leukine®Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals (Bayer)EuropeGranocyte®Chugai Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd./Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi)EuropeRatiograstim®(1)/Biograstim®(1)ratiopharm GmbH (ratiopharm)(2)/CT Arzneimittel GmbH (CT Arzneimittel)EuropeTevagrastim®(1)Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Teva Pharmaceutical)EuropeZarzio®(1)/Filgrastim Hexal®(1)Sandoz GmbH (Sandoz)/Hexal Biotech Forschungs GmbH (Hexal)EuropeNivestim®(1)Hospira Inc. (Hospira)

(1)Approved via the EU biosimilar regulatory pathway.

(2)A subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical.

In August 2012, the FDA approved Sicor Biotech's (Teva Corporation) tbo-filgrastim product to reduce the time that certain patients receiving cancer chemotherapy experience severe neutropenia. The approval was on the basis of a full BLA rather than under the FDA's new biosimilar approval pathway. This drug may compete with NEUPOGEN®subject to the terms of the injunction and settlement agreement discussed below.

In November 2009, Teva Pharmaceutical filed a declaratory judgment action against us alleging that certain of our NEUPOGEN®patents are invalid and not infringed by its tbo-filgrastim product, and in January 2010, we filed an answer and counterclaims seeking a declaratory judgment that our patents are valid and infringed. In July 2011, we announced that the U.S. District Court in Pennsylvania entered final judgment and a permanent injunction against Teva Pharmaceutical and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (together defined as Teva) prohibiting them from infringing our patents relating to human G-CSF polypeptides and methods of treatment. The court’s injunction extends until November 10, 2013, after which date Teva will no longer be prohibited by the injunction from selling its tbo-filgrastim product in the United States. Teva also agreed not to sell balugrastim, a long-acting product candidate, in the United States before November 10, 2013, unless it first obtains a final court decision that our patents are not infringed by balugrastim. Pursuant to the parties’ settlement, the launch date for either product could be sooner if certain unexpected events occur: a third party launches a similar G-CSF polypeptide product and we fail to sue that third party, or the patents are held invalid or unenforceable in a final court decision in an action brought by a third party.

Several companies have short-acting filgrastim product candidates in phase 3 clinical development, including:

•Merck & Company, Inc. (Merck) (MK-4214)

•Intas/Apotex Inc. (Neukine)

•Reliance Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd. (ReliGrast)

•Biocon Ltd./Celgene Corporation (Celgene) (Nufil)

In addition, several companies have long-acting filgrastim product candidates in phase 3 clinical development, including:

•Teva Pharmaceutical (balugrastim and Lonquex)

•Sandoz (LA-EP2006)

•Intas/Apotex Inc. (Neupeg)












Enbrel®(etanercept)

ENBREL is our registered trademark for etanercept, our TNF receptor fusion protein that inhibits the binding of TNF to its receptors, which can result in a significant reduction in inflammatory activity. TNF is one of the chemical messengers that help regulate the inflammatory process. When the body produces too much TNF, it overwhelms the immune system’s ability to control inflammation of the joints or of psoriasis-affected skin areas. ENBREL binds certain TNF molecules before they can trigger inflammation.

ENBREL was launched in the United States in November 1998 and in Canada in March 2001. ENBREL is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with the following conditions: moderate to severe active RA; chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis patients who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy; active psoriatic arthritis; and active ankylosing spondylitis. It is also indicated for reducing signs and symptoms of moderately to severely active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in patients ages two and older.

We market ENBREL under a collaboration agreement with Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) in the United States and Canada, which expires October 31, 2013. (See Business Relationships — Pfizer Inc.) The rights to market and sell ENBREL outside the United States and Canada are reserved to Pfizer.

Total ENBREL sales were as follows (in millions):

201220112010Total ENBREL$4,236$3,701$3,534

Our outstanding material patents for etanercept are described in the following table.

TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Methods of treating psoriasis8/13/2019U.S.Aqueous formulation and methods of treatment using the formulation(1)6/8/2023U.S.Fusion protein, and pharmaceutical compositions11/22/2028U.S.DNA encoding fusion protein, and methods of making fusion protein4/24/2029

(1)This formulation patent relates to the currently approved liquid formulation of ENBREL, which formulation accounts for the majority of ENBREL sales in the United States. However, ENBREL is also sold as an alternative lyophilized formulation that requires reconstituting before it can be administered to the patient.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating rheumatologic conditions, which includes moderate to severe RA; moderate to severe polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis; and dermatologic conditions, which includes moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, could negatively impact ENBREL sales. Certain of the treatments for these indications include generic methotrexate and other products.

The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that compete with ENBREL in the United States and Canada in the inflammatory disease setting. The table below and the following discussion of competitor marketed products and products in development may not be exhaustive.

TerritoryTherapeutic AreaCompetitorMarketedProductCompetitorU.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologyREMICADE®Janssen Biotech, Inc. (Janssen)(1)/MerckU.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologyHUMIRA®Abbott Laboratories (Abbott)(2)U.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologySimponi®Janssen(1)U.S. & CanadaRheumatologyCimzia®UCB/Nektar Therapeutics (Nektar)U.S. & CanadaRheumatologyOrencia®Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS)U.S. & CanadaRheumatologyRituxan®F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (Roche)U.S.RheumatologyActemra®RocheU.S. & CanadaDermatologyStelara®Janssen(1)U.S.RheumatologyXeljanz®Pfizer












(1)A subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson (J&J).

(2)In January 2013, Abbott announced that it completed the separation of its research-based pharmaceuticals business, which became AbbVie, Inc. (AbbVie), a new independent biopharmaceutical company which now owns the rights to this product.

In November 2012, the FDA approved Pfizer's Xeljanz®(tofacitinib), an oral treatment for patients with moderate to severe RA who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate. In addition, a number of companies have product candidates in phase 3 clinical development which may compete with ENBREL in the future, including:

•Celgene (apremilast), in both psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis

•AstraZeneca and Rigel Pharmaceuticals Inc. (fostamatinib) in RA

•Eli Lilly and Company (Eli Lilly) (ixekizumab) for moderate to severe plaque psoriasis

•UCB/Nektar’s Cimzia®in psoriatic arthritis

•Janssen’s Simponi®IV in RA and Stelara®in psoriatic arthritis

•Roche’s Actemra®SC in RA

ESAs

Aranesp®and EPOGEN®are our registered trademarks for darbepoetin alfa and epoetin alfa, respectively, both of which are proteins that stimulate red blood cell production in a process known as erythropoiesis. Red blood cells transport oxygen to all cells of the body. Without adequate amounts of a protein called erythropoietin, the red blood cell count is reduced. A deficient red blood cell count can result in anemia, a condition in which insufficient oxygen is delivered to the body’s organs and tissues. Anemia can be associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) in patients either on or not on dialysis. Individuals with CKD may suffer from anemia because they do not produce sufficient amounts of erythropoietin, which is normally produced in healthy kidneys and stimulates erythropoiesis. Anemia can also result from chemotherapy treatments for patients with non-myeloid malignancies.

ESAs, including ours, have faced and continue to face challenges. For example, based on adverse safety results observed beginning in late 2006 in various studies, performed by us and by others, that explored the use of ESAs in settings different from those outlined in the FDA approved label, the product labeling of our ESAs in the United States and the EU has been updated several times to reflect those safety concerns. In addition, due in part to certain of these developments, reimbursement of our ESAs in the United States was also revised. These regulatory and reimbursement changes have led to changes in the way ESAs are used in clinical practice, including by decreasing the number of patients treated with ESAs as well as the average dose and duration of ESA therapy.

In 2010 and 2011, the FDA and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) took a number of actions with respect to the label for and the reimbursement of ESAs:

•Effective January 1, 2011, CMS implemented the Final Rule on Bundling in Dialysis, providing a single payment for all dialysis services (with the exception of oral drugs without intravenous equivalents).

•In June 2011, the FDA approved ESA label changes impacting both patients on dialysis and those not on dialysis.  While the previous label language specified a hemoglobin (Hb) target range of 10-12 grams per deciliter (g/dL) for patients in both populations, the new label advises physicians treating patients on dialysis to initiate ESA therapy when the Hb level is less than 10 g/dL and to reduce or interrupt the dose when the Hb approaches or exceeds 11 g/dL. For CKD patients not on dialysis receiving ESA treatment, the new label advises physicians to initiate ESA therapy when the Hb level is less than 10 g/dL and to reduce or interrupt the dose when the Hb exceeds 10 g/dL.

•In November 2011, CMS finalized a rule to update various provisions of its bundled-payment system for dialysis services and the related end stage renal disease (ESRD) Quality Incentive Program (QIP). The final rule eliminated for payment year 2013 and beyond the QIP's measure that tracks the percent of a provider's Medicare patients with a Hb level below 10 g/dL.

•In June 2010, CMS opened a National Coverage Analysis (NCA) to examine the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients with CKD and dialysis-related anemia.  Following further analysis, in June 2011, CMS issued a Final Decision Memorandum (FDM) in which it determined that it would not issue a National Coverage Determination (NCD) at that time for ESAs for treatment of anemia in adults with CKD. In the absence of an NCD, Local Coverage Determinations (LCDs) may be made by regional contractors called Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs).  Since CMS issued their FDM, three MACs have issued a revised LCD relating to anemia in patients with CKD not on dialysis. These three MACs provide ESA coverage no more restrictive than the revised label.












Certain of these developments have had a material adverse impact on sales of our ESAs.

In addition, in November 2011, we entered into a seven-year supply agreement with DaVita Inc. (DaVita), commencing January 1, 2012, to supply EPOGEN®in amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of DaVita’s and its affiliates’ requirements for ESAs used in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico.

We have an ongoing oncology pharmacovigilance program in place for Aranesp®. The five clinical trials originally included in the program explored the use of ESAs in settings different from those outlined in the FDA approved label and were designated by the FDA as PMCs. Of the five studies, one was sponsored by Amgen while the other four were investigator-sponsored. Four of the studies are complete and analysis of the results from the fifth study is currently ongoing. The results of certain of those studies contributed to safety-related product labeling changes for our ESAs and changes in reimbursement, as noted above. In addition, Janssen Research & Development, LLC (JRD), a subsidiary of J&J, and/or its investigators have conducted numerous studies that contribute to the understanding of ESA safety. Results of the JRD studies were submitted to the FDA.

Additionally, based on discussions with the FDA, we and JRD have carefully considered potential new study designs to determine the effects of ESAs on survival and tumor outcomes in anemic patients with metastatic cancer receiving concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Based on those discussions, we are conducting a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 non-inferiority study evaluating overall survival when comparing advanced non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients on Aranesp®to patients receiving placebo (Study '782) as part of our Aranesp®pharmacovigilance program. In addition, JRD’s EPO-ANE-3010 study in breast cancer is ongoing. Both studies are designated by the FDA as PMR clinical trials. For the nephrology setting, we have been engaged in ongoing discussions with the FDA regarding additional PMRs to explore alternative ESA dosing strategies in CKD patients on dialysis and not on dialysis. In July 2012 we initiated study '226 to evaluate Aranesp®use in CKD patients not on dialysis. We expect to discuss further with the FDA a potential study in CKD patients on dialysis.

In January 2013, we announced the top-line results of the phase 3 Aranesp®RED-HF®(Reduction of Events With Darbepoetin Alfa in Heart Failure) Trial. The trial was initiated in 2006, and a total of 2,278 patients with symptomatic systolic heart failure and anemia (Hb levels ranging from 9.0-12.0 g/dL) were randomized to receive either treatment with Aranesp®to achieve a target Hb of at least 13.0 g/dL (not to exceed 14.5 g/dL), or placebo. The study did not meet its primary endpoint of reducing the composite endpoint of time to death from any cause or first hospital admission for worsening heart failure. There were no new safety findings identified in the study. These summary results will be followed by full efficacy and safety analyses, which will be shared and discussed with global regulatory agencies and submitted for presentation at an upcoming medical meeting.

Adverse events or results of any of these studies could further affect product labeling, healthcare provider prescribing behavior, regulatory or private healthcare organization medical guidelines and/or reimbursement practices related to Aranesp®or EPOGEN®.

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)

We were granted an exclusive license by K-A to manufacture and market Aranesp®in the United States, all European countries, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East.

We market Aranesp®primarily in the United States and Europe, and it was launched in 2001 in both regions. It is indicated for the treatment of anemia associated with CKD (in both patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis) and also for the treatment of anemia due to concomitant chemotherapy in patients with non-myeloid malignancies.

Total Aranesp®sales were as follows (in millions):

201220112010Aranesp®— U.S.$782$986$1,103Aranesp®— ROW1,2581,3171,383Total Aranesp®$2,040$2,303$2,486

Our outstanding material patents for darbepoetin alfa are described in the following table.

TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins5/15/2024Europe(1)Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins8/16/2014












(1)This European patent is also entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates covering darbepoetin alfa have issued in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, and will expire in 2016.

Our principal European patent related to epoetin alfa expired in December 2004. Although we do not market EPOGEN®in Europe, upon expiration of this patent, some companies received approval to market products, including biosimilars, that compete with Aranesp®in Europe, as further discussed below.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in addressing anemia associated with chemotherapy and/or renal failure could negatively impact Aranesp®sales. In the United States, Aranesp®competes with EPOGEN®, primarily in the U.S. hospital dialysis clinic setting.

The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that compete with Aranesp®in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care and nephrology segments, unless otherwise indicated. The table below and the following discussion of competitor products in development may not be exhaustive.

TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.PROCRIT®(1)Janssen(2)EuropeEPREX®/ERYPO®Janssen-Cilag(2)EuropeNeoRecormon®RocheEuropeRetacrit™(3)/Silapo®(3)Hospira/Stada Arzneimittel AGEuropeBinocrit®(3)/epoetin alfa Hexal®(3)/Abseamed®(3)Sandoz/Hexal/Medice Arzneimittel Pütter GmbH & Co. KGEuropeMIRCERA®(4)RocheEuropeEporatio®/Biopoin®ratiopharm(5)/CT Arzneimittel

(1)PROCRIT®competes with Aranesp®in the supportive cancer care and pre-dialysis settings.

(2)A subsidiary of J&J.

(3)Approved via the EU biosimilar regulatory pathway.

(4)Competes with Aranesp®in the nephrology segment only. Pursuant to a December 2009 settlement agreement between Amgen and Roche, Roche is allowed to begin selling MIRCERA®in the United States in mid-2014 under terms of a limited license agreement. MIRCERA®has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal failure (CRF) in patients on and not on dialysis.

(5)A subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical.

Several companies have short-acting ESA candidates in late stage clinical development, some of which may be pursued as biosimilars with U.S.-sourced epoetin alfa as the comparator product, including:

•APOTEX Inc. (APO-EPO)

•Hospira (Retacrit)

•Sandoz (HX-575)

EPOGEN®(epoetin alfa)

We were granted an exclusive license to manufacture and market EPOGEN®in the United States under a licensing agreement with K-A. We have retained exclusive rights to market EPOGEN®in the United States for dialysis patients. We granted Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, a subsidiary of J&J (which has assigned its rights under the Product License Agreement to Janssen), a license to commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in all indications other than dialysis.

We market EPOGEN®in the United States and it was launched in 1989. EPOGEN®is indicated to treat a lower than normal number of red blood cells (anemia) caused by CKD in patients on dialysis to lessen the need for red blood cell transfusions.












Total EPOGEN®sales were as follows (in millions):

201220112010EPOGEN®— U.S.$1,941$2,040$2,524

Our outstanding material patents for epoetin alfa are described in the following table.

TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Product claims to erythropoietin8/20/2013U.S.Pharmaceutical compositions of erythropoietin8/20/2013U.S.Pharmaceutical erythropoietin formulation with certain stabilizers9/24/2014U.S.Cells that make certain levels of erythropoietin5/26/2015

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in addressing anemia associated with renal failure could negatively impact EPOGEN®sales. In the United States, as noted above, EPOGEN®and Aranesp®compete with each other, primarily in the U.S. hospital dialysis clinic setting.

In March 2012, the FDA approved OMONTYS®(peginesatide), a synthetic, PEGylated peptidic compound that binds to and stimulates the erythropoietin receptor and thus acts as an ESA. OMONTYS®was co-developed by Affymax, Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited (Takeda) and competes with EPOGEN®in the United States in the nephrology segment in patients with CKD who are on dialysis. On February 23, 2013, Affymax, Inc. and Takeda announced that they had decided to voluntarily recall all lots of OMONTYS®Injection to the user level as a result of new postmarketing reports regarding serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, which can be life-threatening or fatal.

XGEVA®/Prolia®(denosumab)

In 2010, we launched XGEVA®and Prolia®, both of which contain the same active ingredient but which are approved for different indications, patient populations, doses and frequencies of administration. We have a collaboration agreement with Glaxo Group Limited (Glaxo), a wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK), for the commercialization of denosumab in certain countries. See Business Relationships — Glaxo Group Limited.

Total XGEVA®and Prolia®sales were as follows (in millions):

201220112010XGEVA®—  U.S.$644$343$8XGEVA®—  ROW1048—Total XGEVA®7483518Prolia®— U.S.29213026Prolia®— ROW180737Total Prolia®47220333Total XGEVA®/Prolia®$1,220$554$41

XGEVA®

In November 2010, the FDA approved XGEVA®for the prevention of skeletal-related events (SREs) (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors. XGEVA®is not indicated for the prevention of SREs in patients with multiple myeloma.

In July 2011, we announced that the European Commission (EC) granted marketing authorization for XGEVA®for the prevention of SREs in adults with bone metastases from solid tumors. The EC also granted XGEVA®an additional year of data and market exclusivity in the EU since the indication was considered new for denosumab and based on the significant clinical benefit of XGEVA®in comparison with existing therapies.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating for the prevention of SREs in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors could negatively impact XGEVA®sales.












The following table reflects currently marketed products that compete with XGEVA®. The table below and the following discussion of competitor products in development may not be exhaustive.

TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S. & EuropeZometa®(1)Novartis AG (Novartis)U.S. & EuropeAredia®(2)Novartis

(1)Novartis has indicated that patent protection on the active ingredient for Zometa®will expire in 2013 in the United States. At such time, we expect that generic forms of zoledronic acid may become commercially available and compete with Zometa®and XGEVA®. Generic forms of zoledronic acid became available in other major markets in 2012.

(2)This product has lost its patent protection and generic versions of this product are available.

In addition, Bayer has filed with the FDA for approval of alpharadin for the treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer patients with bone metastases, that may compete with XGEVA®in the future.

Prolia®

In June 2010, the FDA approved Prolia®for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture, or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. In September 2011, we announced that the FDA approved two additional indications for Prolia®as a treatment to increase bone mass in women at high risk for fracture receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy for breast cancer and as a treatment to increase bone mass in men at high risk for fracture receiving androgen deprivation therapy for non-metastatic prostate cancer. In September 2012, the FDA approved Prolia®for a treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture.

In May 2010, the EC granted marketing authorization for Prolia®for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fractures and for the treatment of bone loss associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer at increased risk of fractures.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating osteoporosis in patients at high risk for fracture could negatively impact Prolia®sales.

The following table and discussion reflect other companies and their currently marketed products that compete with Prolia®. The table below and the following discussion of competitor marketed products and products in development may not be exhaustive.

TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S. & EuropeFOSAMAX®(1)MerckU.S. & EuropeActonel®/Atelvia™Warner Chilcott PLCU.S. & EuropeBoniva®(1)/Bonviva®(1)RocheU.S. & EuropeEvista®Eli LillyU.S. & EuropeForteo®/Forsteo™Eli LillyU.S. & EuropeMiacalcin®NovartisU.S. & EuropeAclasta®(1)/Reclast®NovartisEuropeConbriza®PfizerEuropeFablyn®Pfizer

(1)This product has lost its patent protection and generic versions of this product are available.

We expect several additional marketed products noted above to lose patent protection over the next several years.

Merck (odanacatib) and Radius Health, Inc. (BA058) have product candidates in phase 3 clinical development for PMO.












Our outstanding material patents for denosumab are described in the following table.

TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpiration(1)U.S.RANKL antibodies; and methods of use12/22/2017U.S.Methods of treatment11/11/2018U.S.RANKL antibodies including sequences2/19/2025U.S.Nucleic acids encoding RANKL antibodies, and methods of producing RANKL antibodies11/30/2023EuropeRANKL antibodies12/22/2017EuropeMedical use of RANKL antibodies4/15/2018EuropeRANKL antibodies including epitope binding2/23/2021EuropeRANKL antibodies including sequences6/25/2022

(1)In some cases, these patents may be entitled to patent term extension in the United States or supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such extension will vary by country.For example, supplementary protection certificates covering denosumab have issued in France, Italy and Spain, and will expire in 2025.

Other Marketed Products

Our other marketed products include Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet),Vectibix®(panitumumab) and Nplate®(romiplostim).

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)

Sensipar®is our registered trademark in the United States and Mimpara®is our registered trademark in Europe for cinacalcet, our small molecule medicine used in treating CKD patients on dialysis who produce too much parathyroid hormone (PTH), a condition known as secondary hyperparathyroidism. In 2004, Sensipar®/Mimpara®was approved in the United States and Europe for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD patients on dialysis and for the treatment of hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma. In 2008, Mimpara®was approved in Europe for the reduction of hypercalcemia in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) where a parathyroidectomy is not clinically appropriate or is contraindicated. In 2011, Sensipar®was approved in the United States for the treatment of severe hypercalcemia in patients with PHPT who are unable to undergo parathyroidectomy. We market Sensipar®primarily in the United States and Mimpara®primarily in Europe.

As previously discussed, CMS’s Final Rule on Bundling in Dialysis became effective on January 1, 2011, and provides a single payment for all dialysis services. Oral drugs without intravenous equivalents, such as Sensipar®and phosphate binders, will continue to be reimbursed separately under the Medicare Part D benefit until they are included in the bundled-payment system, which was delayed by Congress from 2014 to 2016 in connection with the passage in January 2013 of the American Taxpayer Relief Act (ATRA).Inclusion in the bundled-payment system may reduce utilization of these oral drugs and have an adverse impact on our sales. See Reimbursement.

In November 2012, we presented at ASN's Kidney Week the results of the phase 3 E.V.O.L.V.E™trial. As previously reported, the primary analysis showed that the trial did not reach its primary endpoint (time to composite event comprising all-cause mortality or first non-fatal cardiovascular event, including myocardial infarction, hospitalization for unstable angina, heart failure or peripheral vascular event) in the intent-to-treat analysis. See Significant Developments in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2012.

Total Sensipar®/Mimpara®sales were as follows (in millions):

201220112010Total Sensipar®/Mimpara®$950$808$714












Our outstanding material patents for cinacalcet are described in the following table.

TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Calcium receptor-active molecules including species10/23/2015U.S.Calcium receptor-active molecules3/8/2018U.S.Methods of treatment12/14/2016Europe(1)Calcium receptor-active molecules10/23/2015

(1)This European patent is also entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates covering cinacalcet have issued in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, and will expire in 2019.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD on dialysis and/or hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma could negatively impact Sensipar®/Mimpara®sales.

The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that compete with Sensipar®in the United States and with Mimpara®in Europe in the nephrology segment for patients with CKD on dialysis and may not be exhaustive.

TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Hectorol®Genzyme Corporation (Genzyme)U.S.Rocaltrol®RocheU.S.Calcijex®Abbott(1)U.S.Calcium Acetate®Roxane Laboratories/SandozU.S. & EuropeZemplar®Abbott(1)U.S. & EuropeRenagel®GenzymeU.S. & EuropeRenvela®GenzymeU.S. & EuropePhosLo®/Rephoren®Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co. KGaA (Fresenius Medical Care)U.S. & EuropeOsvaRen®Fresenius Medical CareU.S. & EuropeFosrenol®Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Plc

(1)In January 2013, Abbott announced that it completed the separation of its research-based pharmaceuticals business, which became AbbVie, a new independent biopharmaceutical company which now owns the rights to this product.

In July 2008, we filed a lawsuit against Teva and Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Barr) for infringement of four Sensipar®patents. The lawsuit was based on Abbreviated New Drug Applications (NDA) filed by Teva and Barr that sought approval to market generic versions of Sensipar®. Following trial, in January 2011, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware granted an injunction prohibiting Teva and Barr from commercializing generic versions of Sensipar®in the United States until expiration of three of those patents. These generic versions could compete with Sensipar®in the future.

Vectibix®(panitumumab)

Vectibix

®

is our registered trademark for panitumumab, our monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients with EGFr expressing metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) after disease progression on, or following fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan- containing chemotherapy regimens. EGFr is a protein that plays an important role in cancer cell signaling and is over-expressed in many human cancers. Vectibix

®

binds with high affinity to EGFrs and interferes with signals that might otherwise stimulate growth and survival of the cancer cell. In September 2006, Vectibix

®

received FDA accelerated approval in the United States, based upon clinical trial data from a study demonstrating a statistically significant improvement in progression-free survival and with the condition that Amgen conduct a confirmatory trial to verify the clinical benefit of panitumumab through demonstration of an improvement in overall survival. (See discussion of the '181 trial below.) In the EU, the conditional approval of Vectibix

®

as monotherapy, for the treatment of patients with EGFr expressing metastatic colorectal carcinoma with non-mutated (wild-type)

KRAS

genes after failure of fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin-, and irinotecan-containing chemotherapy regimens, was received in December 2007 and is reviewed annually by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). Each year thereafter, the EU conditional marketing authorization was renewed with an additional specific obligation to conduct a clinical trial in the approved monotherapy indication. In 2010, we began enrollment for this additional clinical trial which compares the effect of Vectibix

®

versus Erbitux

®

(cetuximab) on overall survival for chemorefractory mCRC patients with wild-type

KRAS

genes.

KRAS














is a protein found in all human cells. Some colorectal cancers have mutations in theKRASgene. Vectibix®has been shown to be ineffective in people whose tumors hadKRASmutations in codon 12 or 13.

In 2009, we announced results from the ‘203 and ‘181 pivotal phase 3 trials evaluating Vectibix®in combination with chemotherapy (FOLFOX or FOLFIRI) as a first- and second-line treatment for mCRC, respectively. Both studies demonstrated that Vectibix®administered with chemotherapy significantly improved progression-free survival in patients with wild-typeKRASmCRC. Additionally, both studies showed numeric improvements in median overall survival in the same patient population. The numeric improvements in median overall survival failed to achieve statistical significance. It was previously agreed with the FDA that the '181 study would serve as the confirmatory trial for establishing full approval for the mCRC indication.

In July 2011, we announced that we received Complete Response Letters from the FDA on the first- and second-line mCRC sBLAs that we filed in late 2010. The FDA did not ask for new clinical studies but did request an updated safety analysis and additional analyses of the overall survival data in the ’181 and ’203 studies using more mature data sets. The FDA has also informed us that approval for the first- and second-line mCRC indications will be contingent upon approval of the companion diagnostic device being developed in collaboration with QIAGEN N.V. (QIAGEN), which identifies a patient’sKRASgene status. We are currently working on addressing the FDA’s requests in the Complete Response Letters.

In November 2011, the EC approved a variation to the marketing authorization for Vectibix®to include indications for the treatment of patients with wild-typeKRASmCRC in first- and second-line in combination with chemotherapy.

Total Vectibix®sales were as follows (in millions):

201220112010Total Vectibix®$359$322$288

Our outstanding material patents for panitumumab are described in the following table.

TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Human monoclonal antibodies to EGFr4/8/2020U.S.Human monoclonal antibodies to EGFr5/5/2017EuropeFully human antibodies that bind EGFr12/3/2017Europe(1)Human monoclonal antibodies to EGFr5/5/2018

(1)This European patent is also entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates covering panitumumab have issued in France, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, and will expire in 2022.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating mCRC after disease progression either on or following fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan-containing chemotherapy regimens could negatively impact Vectibix®sales.

The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that compete with Vectibix®in the United States and Europe and may not be exhaustive.

TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Erbitux®Eli Lilly/BMSU.S.Zaltrap®SanofiU.S.Avastin®Genentech, Inc. (Genentech)U.S.Stivarga®BayerEuropeErbitux®Merck KGaA

Nplate®(romiplostim)

In August 2008, the FDA approved Nplate®for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in splenectomized (spleen removed) and non-splenectomized adults with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). Nplate®works by raising and sustaining platelet counts. We were granted an exclusive license by K-A to manufacture and market Nplate®in the United States, all European countries, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East. In February 2009, we announced that the EC had granted marketing authorization for Nplate®












for the treatment of splenectomized adult chronic ITP patients who are refractory to other treatments (e.g., corticosteroids, immunoglobulins). In the EU, Nplate®may also be considered as second-line treatment for adult non-splenectomized ITP patients where surgery is contraindicated.

Total Nplate®sales were as follows (in millions):

201220112010Total Nplate®$368$297$229

Our outstanding material patents for romiplostim are described in the following table.

TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Thrombopoietic compounds1/19/2022U.S.Thrombopoietic compounds10/22/2019Europe(1)Thrombopoietic compounds10/22/2019

(1)This European patent is also entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates covering romiplostim have issued in France, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, and will expire in 2024.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating thrombocytopenia in splenectomized and non-splenectomized adults with chronic ITP could negatively impact Nplate®sales.

The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that compete with Nplate®in the United States and Europe and may not be exhaustive.

TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Promacta®GSKEuropeRevolade®GSK



Marketing and Distribution

We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United States, Europe and Canada to support our currently marketed products. We have also entered into agreements with third parties to assist in the commercialization and marketing of certain of our products in specified geographic areas. (See Business Relationships.) Together with our partners, we market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. We also market certain products directly to consumers through direct-to-consumer print and television advertising, as well as through the Internet. In addition, for certain of our products, we promote programs to increase public awareness of the health risks associated with the diseases these products treat and we provide support for various patient education and support programs in the related therapeutic areas. See Government Regulation — FDA Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion for a discussion of government regulation of product marketing and promotion.

In the United States, we sell primarily to pharmaceutical wholesale distributors. We utilize those wholesale distributors as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers. In Europe, we sell principally to healthcare providers and/or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors depending on the distribution practice in each country. We monitor the financial condition of our larger customers, and we limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits and, for certain customers, by requiring letters of credit.

Our product sales to three large wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. On a combined basis, these wholesalers accounted for approximately 94%, 90% and 88% of our gross product sales in the United States, respectively and approximately 76%, 72% and 71% of our total worldwide gross revenues, respectively in 2012, 2011 and 2010.



Reimbursement

Sales of all of our principal products are dependent in large part on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government and private insurance plans. Most patients receiving our products are covered by government healthcare programs or private insurers. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement and/or pricing of our products to control costs or to affect levels of use of our products; and private insurers may adopt or be influenced by government










coverage and reimbursement methodologies. Worldwide use of our products may be affected by cost containment pressures and cost shifting from governments and private insurers to healthcare providers or patients in response to ongoing initiatives to reduce or reallocate healthcare expenditures. An increasing worldwide focus on patient access controls and cost containment by public and private insurers has resulted, and may continue to result, in reduced reimbursement rates for our products. In addition, healthcare reforms enacted in the United States have made substantial long-term changes to the reimbursement of our products, and those changes have had, and are expected to continue to have, a material adverse impact on our business.

U.S. Reimbursement System

Our principal products are sold primarily in the United States, and healthcare providers, including doctors, hospitals and other healthcare professionals and providers, are reimbursed by the government through Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs as well as through private payers for covered services and products they use. Government healthcare programs are funded primarily through the payment of taxes by individuals and businesses. The public and private components of this multi-payer system are described below.

Medicare and Other Forms of Public Health Insurance

Medicare Part B Coverage of Drugs.Medicare Part B provides limited coverage of outpatient drugs and biologicals that are reasonable and necessary for a medically accepted diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury and that fall into a statutory benefit category. One such category relevant to our products covers drugs and biologicals furnished incident to a physician’s services. Generally, incident-to drugs and biologicals are covered if they satisfy certain criteria, including that they are of the type that are not usually self-administered by the patient. Medicare Part B also covers certain drugs pursuant to specific statutory benefit categories, such as blood-clotting factors and certain immunosuppressive drugs, erythropoietin and certain oral cancer drugs. Many of our principal products are currently covered under Medicare Part B (as well as other government healthcare programs).

Medicare Part D Coverage of Drugs. Medicare Part D provides a voluntary prescription drug benefit for Medicare eligible beneficiaries. The coverage is available through private plans that provide insurance coverage for prescription drugs for a monthly premium and with patient cost sharing. The list of prescription drugs covered by Medicare Part D plans varies by plan, but drug lists maintained by individual plans must cover certain classes of drugs and biologicals; specifically the statute stipulates that Medicare Part D plans have at least two drugs in each unique therapeutic category or class, subject to certain exceptions.

Medicare ESRD Program.Most patients with ESRD, regardless of age, are eligible for coverage of dialysis treatment through Medicare's ESRD Program. Because Medicare is the primary payer for dialysis treatment in the United States, reimbursement for products, such as EPOGEN®, that are typically administered in dialysis centers and other settings is particularly sensitive to changes in Medicare coverage and reimbursement policy. Since January 1, 2011, dialysis treatment under the ESRD Program has been reimbursed under a bundled-payment system described in more detail below. See Dialysis Reimbursement.

Medicaid.Medicaid is a joint federal and state program administered by individual states for low-income and disabled eligible beneficiaries. CMS also has responsibility for federal administration of the Medicaid program. Under federal law, states must cover low-income adults and children, pregnant women, disabled individuals and seniors, and states have the option of expanding eligibility beyond those groups of beneficiaries. Medicaid is financed jointly by the states and the federal government through taxes. Medicaid offers a broad set of benefits, including prescription drugs, although coverage varies by state. Medicaid includes the Drug Rebate Program, which requires that manufacturers provide rebates for the states for products covered and reimbursed by state Medicaid programs.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.










Private Health Insurance

Employer-sponsored insurance.Employer-sponsored insurance currently represents the main pathway by which Americans receive private health insurance. Many employers provide health insurance as part of employees’ benefit packages. Insurance plans are administered by private companies — both for-profit and not-for-profit — and some companies are self-insured (i.e., they pay directly through a plan administered by a third party for all healthcare costs incurred by employees). Generally, employer-sponsored insurance premiums are paid primarily by employers and secondarily by employees.

Individual market.The individual market covers part of the population that is self-employed or retired. In addition, it covers some people who are unable to obtain insurance through their employers. The plans are administered by private insurance companies. Individuals pay out-of-pocket insurance premiums for coverage, and the benefits vary widely according to plan specifications.

Efforts to reduce health care costs are being made in the private sector, notably by health care payers and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. Amgen expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce the cost and/or utilization of healthcare products including our products.

Reimbursement of Our Principal Products

Neulasta

®

, NEUPOGEN

®

, Aranesp

®

, Prolia

®

and XGEVA

®

. Medicare and Medicaid payment policies for drugs and biologicals are subject to various laws and regulations. The Medicare program covers our principal products Neulasta

®

, NEUPOGEN

®

, Aranesp

®

,



Prolia

®

and XGEVA

®

(as well as certain of our other products, including Vectibix

®

and Nplate

®

In general, drugs and biologicals provided in the physician clinic setting and in the hospital outpatient setting are reimbursed under Medicare Part B at a certain percentage of their ASP (sometimes referred to as “ASP +X%”). The 2013 reimbursement rates in both settings will be ASP +6%. The rate for the physician clinic setting is set by statute, but CMS has authority to adjust the rate for the hospital outpatient setting annually. Commercial payers may use the government's ASP data in setting their payment methodologies for drugs and biologicals provided in the physician clinic and hospital outpatient settings.  The extent to which commercial payers rely on the government's ASP data and the specific ASP +X% used is often based on the contractual relationship between the provider and the insurer.

For fiscal years 2013-21, Medicare payment rates are scheduled to be affected by across-the-board budget cuts (referred to commonly as “sequestration”) mandated under the Budget Control Act (the BCA) and revised by the ATRA, as explained more fully below in Impact of Budget Control Act on U.S. Reimbursement. Under sequestration, CMS can reduce Medicare payments to providers, including ASP-based reimbursement, by up to 2% per fiscal year.

Dialysis Reimbursement.Currently, dialysis providers in the United States are reimbursed for EPOGEN®primarily by Medicare through the ESRD Program, which is established by federal law and implemented by CMS. Historically, the ESRD Program reimbursed Medicare providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs; the remainder was paid by other sources, including patients, state Medicaid programs, private insurance, and to a lesser extent, state kidney patient programs. Until January 1, 2011, Medicare reimbursed for separately billable dialysis drugs (including Aranesp®and EPOGEN®) administered in both freestanding and hospital-based dialysis centers, at ASP +6%, by using the same payment amount methodology used in the physician clinic setting under Part B. On January 1, 2011, CMS’s bundled-payment system went into effect for dialysis providers by establishing a single payment for all dialysis services, including drugs, supplies and non-routine laboratory tests that had previously been reimbursed separately. ESRD providers receive a designated payment for each dialysis treatment and can be paid for up to three treatments per week unless medical necessity justifies more frequent treatments. Oral drugs without intravenous equivalents, such










as Sensipar®and phosphate binders, will continue to be reimbursed separately under the Medicare Part D benefit until they are included in the bundled-payment system in 2016. Inclusion in the bundled-payment system may reduce utilization of these oral drugs and have an adverse impact on our sales.

To encourage dialysis providers to continue to provide quality dialysis treatment under the new bundled-payment system, CMS also implemented the ESRD QIP. Under the QIP, beginning in 2012, ESRD facilities are subject to a payment penalty of up to 2% of amounts reimbursed for failure to meet or exceed CMS’s quality performance standards, including performance standards related to anemia management and dialysis adequacy. In November 2011, following our June 2011 announcement of changes to the labels for the use of ESAs in patients with CKD, CMS finalized a rule to update various provisions of its bundled-payment system for dialysis services and the related ESRD QIP. The final rule eliminated for payment year 2013 and beyond one of the QIP's measures that tracks the percent of a provider's Medicare patients with a Hb level below 10 g/dL. CMS indicated that removal of this quality measure from the QIP was being done in response to the June 2011 ESA label changes. We believe that the implementation of these various changes in the dialysis setting has resulted and could result in a material adverse impact on the reimbursement, use and sales of EPOGEN®and on our business and results of operations. Data available through October 2012 indicates a stabilization of Hb levels.

ENBREL Reimbursement.The majority of prescription claims for ENBREL are paid through private insurance companies. Under Medicare, ENBREL is reimbursed through the Part D program, although less than 10% of all ENBREL U.S. prescriptions are reimbursed by Medicare.

Mandatory Government Rebates and Discounts

Related to our participation in the Medicaid drug rebate program is a requirement that we extend comparable discounts under the Public Health Service (PHS) drug pricing program to eligible community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.










U.S. Healthcare Reform.In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) and the companion Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, which made certain changes and adjustments to the PPACA, primarily with respect to the PPACA’s financial and budgetary impacts, were signed into law. We refer to those two laws collectively as the “U.S. healthcare reform law.” The U.S. healthcare reform law imposes additional costs on and reduces the revenue of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. The following paragraphs describe certain provisions of the healthcare reform law that are affecting and will affect our business.

The U.S. healthcare reform law also imposed a new fee (the U.S. healthcare reform federal excise fee) on manufacturers and importers of “branded prescription drugs,” which includes drugs approved under section 505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) or biological products licensed under section 351(a) of the Public Health Service Act. The U.S. healthcare reform law set an aggregate annual fee, to be paid by these manufacturers and importers, totaling $28 billion over 10 years beginning in 2011. This annual fee is apportioned among the participating companies, including us, based on each company’s sales of qualifying products to, and utilization by, certain U.S. government programs during the preceding calendar year. The additional fee is not deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Manufacturers and importers of generic or biosimilar drugs are not subject to the fee.

Other changes under the U.S. healthcare reform law that became effective in 2010 include: (i) an increase in the rebates we pay to the states for our products that are covered and reimbursed by state Medicaid programs, (ii) the extension of the Medicaid drug rebate program to patients in Medicaid managed care insurance plans for whom rebates were not previously required and (iii) the expansion of the list of provider institutions to which we must extend discounts under the PHS 340B drug-pricing program.

When the Medicare Part D drug benefit took effect in 2006, standard benefit Part D plan enrollees were required to pay 100% of their prescription drug costs after their total drug spending exceeded an initial coverage limit and until they qualified for catastrophic coverage. This coverage gap is sometimes referred to as the Part D “doughnut hole.” Then the PPACA directed CMS to phase out up to 50% of this coverage gap from 2011 to 2020. Under the standard benefit, cost sharing for both brand and generic drugs will be reduced each year until 2020, when the coverage gap will be eliminated and beneficiaries will pay 25% cost sharing for all drugs until they reach the out-of-pocket threshold. Manufacturers like Amgen are presently required to provide a 50% cost sharing discount for beneficiaries in the doughnut hole.

The U.S. healthcare reform law also expands Medicaid eligibility to include those with incomes up to 133% of the federal poverty level (FPL), from 100% of the FPL. This provision becomes effective January 1, 2014.

Impact of Budget Control Act on U.S. Reimbursement

The Budget Control Act of 2011, signed into law in the United States in August 2011, mandated a 2% reduction in government payments for all Medicare services (including the administration of separately billable drugs and payment for drugs in all Medicare programs) for federal fiscal years 2013-21. The impact of sequestration remains subject to administrative implementation of the Budget Control Act, as updated by the more recent ATRA, or future statutory revision by Congress, which could block, limit or otherwise modify the automatic spending cuts. Several alternative deficit reduction proposals have been put forth by President Obama and/or congressional committees, including proposals designed to further limit federal healthcare expenditures. We cannot predict whether any deficit reduction actions will be approved by Congress and/or whether a budget sequestration will ultimately occur for Medicare services. A reduction in reimbursement for drugs and biologics for U.S. healthcare programs as a result of changes such as those that have been proposed or as a result other changes designed to achieve similar federal budget savings could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations.

Reimbursement Outside the United States

Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United States, government-sponsored healthcare systems have traditionally been the primary payers of all healthcare costs, including payment for drugs and biologicals. Over the past several years, the reimbursement environment in Europe has become very challenging. The proliferation of Health Technology Assessment (HTA) organizations (e.g., National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) in the UK and the German Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG) in Germany) has led to recommendations and/or determinations of coverage and reimbursement based on both the clinical as well as the economic value of a product. Although the methods employed by different HTA agencies vary from country to country, the use of formal economic metrics has been increasing across Europe as well as in several emerging markets throughout the world. In addition to determining whether or not a new product will be reimbursed, these agencies are becoming increasingly involved in setting the maximum price at which the product will be reimbursed - the “value-based” price for a product.

With increased budgetary constraints, payers in many countries employ a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure. Mandatory price controls continue to be a significant aspect of business for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in most countries outside the United States. In some countries, international price referencing is the primary mechanism for price control, whereby the ceiling price of a pharmaceutical or biological product is set based on prices in particular benchmark










In many countries, the influence of regional and hospital payers also contributes to whether patients have access to certain products. For example, a product may be listed successfully on a national formulary, but may also be subject to further evaluations or competitive bidding by payers at a regional or hospital level. The impact of multiple layers of assessment can result in delay or failure to secure access and/or net price pressure.

Payers in some countries are using and others are beginning to experiment with alternative payment mechanisms (e.g., payment caps, risk sharing) as a means to achieve or maintain access to innovative therapies while increasing their budget certainty. Requirements for such payment mechanisms can adversely impact Amgen’s business through increased net price concessions and added administrative burden.

While we cannot fully predict either the extent of further price reductions and/or reimbursement restrictions taken by governmental payers outside the United States or the impact such actions will have on our business, such reductions in price and/or the coverage and reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations.



Fraud and Abuse Regulations Related to Reimbursement

As participants in government reimbursement programs, we are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws, as well as foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. (See Government Regulation — Other.) Violations of fraud and abuse laws can result in stringent enforcement penalties up to and including complete exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).



Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials

Manufacturing

Biological products, which are produced in living systems, are inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory-scale processes into reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing operations consist of bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish and distribution activities. Bulk manufacturing includes fermentation and/or cell culture — processes by which our proteins are produced — and also includes purification of the proteins to a high quality. The proteins are then formulated into stable forms. The fill process dispenses the formulated bulk protein into vials or syringes. Finally, in the finish process, our products are packaged for distribution.

We operate a number of commercial and/or clinical manufacturing facilities, and our primary facilities are located in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Netherlands. (See Item 2. Properties.) We also use and expect to continue to use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of certain of our large molecule marketed products as well as a number of our clinical product candidates. Manufacturing of Sensipar®/Mimpara®, our small molecule product, is currently performed by third-party contract manufacturers, except for certain fill and finish activities performed by us in Puerto Rico.

The global supply of our products depends on actively managing the inventory produced at our facilities and by third-party contract manufacturers and the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. During the manufacturing scale-up process, and even after achieving sustainable commercial manufacturing, we may encounter difficulties or disruptions due to defects in raw materials or equipment, contamination or other factors that could impact product availability. See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales and — We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.










Commercial Bulk Manufacturing

We operate commercial bulk manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico and in several locations throughout the United States for most of our products. (See Item 2. Properties.) We have the option to supplement commercial bulk manufacturing for ENBREL, Prolia®,XGEVA®and Vectibix®with a third-party contract manufacturer.

Commercial Formulation, Fill and Finish Manufacturing

We perform most of our commercial protein formulation, fill and finish manufacturing in our Puerto Rico facility. Formulation, fill and finish manufacturing for Nplate®and Vectibix®is performed by third-party contract manufacturers. In addition to the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL performed by us in Puerto Rico, fill and finish of a certain portion of ENBREL is also performed by third-party contract manufacturers. We also conduct finish activities in the Netherlands. See Item 2. Properties.

Clinical Manufacturing

Clinical bulk, formulation, fill and finish manufacturing facilities are operated primarily in our Thousand Oaks, California, location. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers for certain clinical products.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors — We perform a substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing activities at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility and a substantial amount of our clinical manufacturing activities at our Thousand Oaks, California manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at the Puerto Rico facility, we may not be able to supply these products or, at the Thousand Oaks facility, we may not be able to continue our clinical trials.

Distribution

We operate distribution centers in the United States, principally in Kentucky, California and the Netherlands for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and clinical products. In addition, we also use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our commercial and clinical products in certain areas of the world.

Other

In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities noted above, our operations in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Netherlands perform key manufacturing support functions, including quality control, process development, procurement, distribution and production scheduling. Certain of those manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated by the FDA as well as other international regulatory agencies. See Government Regulation — FDA Regulation of Manufacturing Standards.

Manufacturing Initiatives

We have multiple ongoing initiatives that are designed to optimize our manufacturing network and/or mitigate risks while continuing to ensure adequate supply of our commercial products. The facilities impacted by each of these initiatives will require qualification and licensure by various regulatory authorities. These initiatives include the construction of a formulation and fill facility at our Puerto Rico site; and as part of a risk mitigation strategy, we plan modification and expansion of our recently acquired formulation, fill and finish site in Ireland to manufacture our products.

In addition to these initiatives, we have projects designed to operate our facilities at appropriate production capacity over the next few years, further optimize manufacturing asset utilization, continue our use of third-party contract manufacturers and maintain a state of regulatory compliance. See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.

Raw Materials and Medical Devices

Certain raw materials necessary for the commercial and clinical bulk manufacturing of our products are provided by unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only sources for such materials. Also, certain medical devices and components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of our products are provided by unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of which may be the sole sources. Certain of the raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from the specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by inventory management, relationship management and evaluation of alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial condition of certain suppliers and their ability to supply our needs.

Certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other countries and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. In addition, one of our marketed products also uses bovine serum and human serum albumin. Some countries in which we market our products may restrict the use of certain










biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. We continue to investigate alternatives to certain biological sources and alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use of certain biologically derived substances because such raw materials may be subject to contamination and/or recall. A material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restriction of the use of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials that may be sourced from other countries and that are used in the manufacture of our products could adversely impact or disrupt the commercial manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated withdrawal of our products from the market. See Item 1A. Risk Factors — We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.

We perform various procedures to assist in authenticating the source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used in the manufacture of our products, which include verification of the country of origin. These procedures are incorporated into the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract manufacturers perform.



Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of our products and our ongoing R&D activities.

In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies. In the United States, the Public Health Service Act, the FDCA and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the raw materials and components used in the production, research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion, and distribution of our products. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to a variety of administrative and/or judicially imposed sanctions. The sanctions could include the FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawals of approvals, delay or suspension of clinical trials, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution.

Clinical Development.We must conduct extensive clinical trials designed to establish the safety and efficacy of product candidates in order to file for regulatory approval to market a product. Product development and approval within that regulatory framework take a number of years and involve our expenditure of substantial resources, and any approval we obtain remains costly for us to maintain. After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, we file an Investigational New Drug Application (IND) with the FDA to begin human testing. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA raises concerns or questions. In such a case, we and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin.

Applications. The results of preclinical and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for biologic products subject to the Public Health Service Act or an NDA for drugs subject to the approval provisions of the FDCA. Submission of the application is no guarantee that the FDA will find it complete and accept it for filing. If an application is accepted for filing, following the FDA’s review, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if it determines that the application does not provide an adequate basis for approval. We cannot take any action to market any new drug or biologic product in the United States until our appropriate marketing application has been approved by the FDA.

Post-approval Phase.After we have obtained approval to market our products, we monitor adverse events from the use of our products and report such events to regulatory agencies, along with information from post marketing surveillance or studies. We may utilize other research approaches to learn or confirm information about our marketed products, including observational










The FDA also has the authority to require companies to implement a REMS for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. The FDA may require the submission of a REMS before a product is approved or after approval based on new safety information, including new analyses of existing safety information. In determining whether a product will require a REMS before the product is approved, the FDA may consider a number of factors.

Each REMS is unique and varies depending on the specific factors required. While the elements of REMS may vary, all REMS require the sponsor to submit periodic assessment reports to the FDA to demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met. Failure to comply with a REMS, including submission of a required assessment or any modification to a REMS, may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and can result in additional limitations being placed on a product’s use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. We currently have approved REMS for our ESAs, Prolia®and Nplate®. The FDA and sponsor companies continue to learn how best to implement, operate and monitor the effectiveness of REMS, and the requirements of our REMS and those of other companies may change over time. The FDA published guidance intended to limit or remove REMS requirements for certain products. The FDA will also be looking at ways to standardize REMS programs, with the intent to make the establishment, review and assessment of these programs less burdensome on the agency and the sponsor. The FDA will hold a series of public meetings on REMS over the next several years and will solicit stakeholder feedback in an effort to continue to focus and improve their risk management oversight.

Adverse events that are reported after marketing approval also can result in additional limitations being placed on a product’s use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA has authority to mandate labeling changes to products at any point in a product’s lifecycle based on new safety information or as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products.

The FDA also uses various advisory committees of external experts to assist in its mission to protect and promote the public health and to obtain independent expert advice on scientific, technical and policy matters. The committees are generally advisory only and FDA officials are not bound to or limited by their recommendations. We have participated in meetings of the Oncology Drug Advisory Committee, the Cardiovascular and Renal Drug Advisory Committee and the Advisory Committee for Reproductive Health Drugs, among others, to address certain issues related to our products, including Aranesp®, EPOGEN®, Prolia®and XGEVA®.

FDA Approval of Biosimilars










evaluating a number of relevant issues, and additional guidance documents are expected to be released, including guidance on the criteria for interchangeability (which the FDA has indicated would be a “higher standard” than biosimilarity).

FDA Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. The FDA closely reviews and regulates the marketing and promotion of products. We are required to obtain the FDA approval before marketing or promoting a product as a treatment for a particular indication. Our product promotion for approved product indications must comply with the statutory standards of the FDCA, and the FDA’s implementing regulations and standards. The FDA’s review of marketing and promotional activities encompasses, but is not limited to, direct-to-consumer advertising, healthcare provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional activities involving the Internet. The FDA may also review industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations also can result in adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the U.S. Congress or other legislators.

FDA Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. The FDA regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products prior to providing approval to market products. If after receiving approval from the FDA, we make a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA also conducts regular, periodic visits to re-inspect our equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial approval. If, as a result of those inspections, the FDA determines that our equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and conditions of product approval, the FDA may seek civil, criminal or administrative sanctions and/or remedies against us, including suspension of our manufacturing operations. Such issues may also delay the approval of new products undergoing FDA review.

Regulation of Combination Products. When our products are used with medical devices, they may be considered combination products, which are defined by the FDA to include products comprised of two or more regulated components or parts (e.g., a biologic and a device). When regulated independently, biologics and devices each have their own regulatory requirements. However, the regulatory requirements for a combination product comprised of a biologic administered with a delivery device are more complex, as in addition to the individual regulatory requirements for each component, additional combination product regulatory requirements may apply. We expect that in the future a number of our pipeline products may meet this definition and be evaluated for regulatory approval under this framework. In addition, due to regional differences in regulation structures and systems outside the United States, the definition and regulatory requirements for combination products may differ significantly depending on the region.

New Innovation Provisions Available to Regulatory Agencies Reviewing Drug Applications.In the United States, the FDA may grant accelerated approval status to products that treat serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefits to patients over existing treatments. Under accelerated approval regulations, the FDA may approve a product based on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit or based on an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. The sponsor/marketing applicant will then be required to conduct additional, post-approval confirmatory trials to verify and describe clinical benefit, and the product may have certain post-marketing restrictions as necessary to assure safe use. The FDA is also given greater flexibility to withdraw approval granted under accelerated approval, if it is warranted. Additional legislation has been approved in 2012 that could further expand the FDA's authority. For example, the FDA may consider ways to more greatly use the accelerated approval pathway for rare or very rare diseases, and a new review designation was created to help foster the innovation of promising new therapies with the potential to shorten the timeframe for conducting pivotal trials and speed up patient access to the approved product.

In Europe, the preexisting conditional approval pathway provides for the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to apply greater flexibility in terms of their benefit/risk evaluation in order to promote innovation. While no plans to revise or add to this statutory provision have been announced, there are on-going discussions at the EMA to consider so-called “adaptive licensing”.  It is not clear at this stage whether such proposals will result in meaningful changes to the EU regulatory approval pathway.

Approval and Post-Approval Regulation Outside the United States.In the EU countries, Switzerland, Canada and Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar in principle to those in the United States. Additionally, depending on the type of drug for which approval is sought, there are currently two potential tracks for marketing approval in the EU, including a centralized procedure. In the centralized procedure, which is required of all products derived from biotechnology, a company submits a single marketing authorization application to the EMA which conducts a thorough evaluation, drawing from its scientific resources across Europe. If the drug product is proven to fulfill the requirements for quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP adopts a positive opinion, which is transmitted to the EC for final approval of the marketing authorization. While the EC generally follows the CHMP's opinion, it is not bound to do so. In the EU, biosimilars have been approved under a sub-pathway of the centralized procedure since 2006. The pathway allows sponsors of a biosimilar to seek and obtain regulatory approval based in part on the










Other countries such as those in Latin America, Mexico, Brazil, Russia, Turkey and the Middle East have a less comprehensive review process in terms of data requirements and for the most part rely on prior marketing approval (as demonstrated by a certificate of pharmaceutical product) from a foreign regulatory authority in the United States or EU. The regulatory process in these countries is less well defined than in the United States and frequently includes manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product on importation and other domestic requirements.

Other.

We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other current and potential future federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations. Our R&D activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials and various radioactive compounds. We believe our procedures comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental contamination cannot be completely eliminated. While we are not required to do so, we strive to conduct our research and manufacturing activities in a manner that meets the intents and purposes of the National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research.

Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations.

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and/or regulations.














Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates

We focus our R&D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of grievous illness in the areas of oncology, hematology, inflammation, bone health, nephrology, cardiovascular and general medicine, which includes neuroscience. We take a modality-independent approach to R&D with a focus on biologics. Our discovery research programs may therefore yield targets that lead to the development of human therapeutics delivered as large molecules, small molecules, or other combination or new modalities.

We have major R&D centers in several locations throughout the United States and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller research centers and development facilities globally. See Item 2. Properties.

We conduct clinical trial activities using both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial service providers. To increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we have opened clinical sites and will continue to open clinical sites and to enroll patients in a number of geographic locations. See Item 1A. Risk Factors — We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications.

Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R&D in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. For example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, which may limit the number of available patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product candidates is significantly dependent on the timing of entry into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance, thereby contributing to the product’s eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market will be important to our competitive position.

In addition to product candidates and marketed products generated from our internal R&D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D arrangements with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. Those licenses and arrangements generally provide for non-refundable, upfront license fees, R&D and commercial performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing.

Various public and privately owned companies, research organizations, academic institutions and government agencies conduct a significant amount of R&D in the biotechnology industry. In pursuing R&D arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities, we face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed products from those entities. Accordingly, we may have difficulty entering into R&D arrangements and licensing or acquiring technologies, product candidates and marketed products on acceptable terms.

See Government Regulation — Clinical Development for a discussion of government regulation over clinical development.

The following table is a selection of certain of our product candidates by phase of development in our therapeutic areas of focus as of February 11, 2013, unless otherwise indicated. Each disease or condition for our product candidates in phase 3 is listed separately. Additional product candidate (pipeline) information can be found on our website at http://www.amgen.com. (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.) The information in this section does not include other, non-registrational clinical trials, such as the Pegfilgrastim and Anti-VEGF Evaluation Study (PAVES) trial evaluating Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim) use in patients receiving chemotherapy and bevacizumab for the first-line treatment of locally-advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer, that we may conduct for purposes other than for submission to regulatory agencies for their approval of a new product indication. We may conduct non-registrational clinical trials for various reasons including to evaluate real-world outcomes or to collect additional safety information with the use of our products. See, for example, the discussion of our ESA pharmacovigilance trials under — Marketed Products — ESAs.
















MoleculeDisease/Condition

Phase 3 Programs

AMG 145Hyperlipidemia

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)Myelodysplastic syndromes

Brodalumab (AMG 827)Psoriasis

Prolia®(denosumab)Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis

Prolia®(denosumab) - EUMale osteoporosis

RilotumumabGastric cancer

Romosozumab (AMG 785)PMO

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)Post renal transplant

Talimogene laherparepvecMelanoma

Trebananib (AMG 386)Ovarian cancer

Vectibix®(panitumumab) - U.S.First- and second-line colorectal cancer

XGEVA®(denosumab)Delay or prevention of bone metastases in breast cancer

XGEVA®(denosumab) - EUDelay or prevention of bone metastases in prostate cancer

XGEVA®(denosumab)Cancer-related bone damage (SREs) in  patients with multiple myeloma

Phase 2 Programs

AMG 151Type 2 diabetes

AMG 181Inflammatory bowel disease

AMG 416Secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD receiving dialysis

AMG 747Schizophrenia

Blinatumomab (AMG 103)Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)

BlinatumomabNon-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL)

BrodalumabInflammatory diseases

Omecamtiv mecarbilHeart failure

Prolia®(denosumab)RA

TrebananibVarious cancer types

Vectibix®(panitumumab)Squamous cell head and neck cancer

XGEVA®(denosumab)Giant cell tumor of the bone (GCTB)

XGEVA®(denosumab)Hypercalcemia of malignancy

Phase 1 Programs

AMG 110Various cancer types

AMG 139Inflammatory diseases

AMG 157Asthma

AMG 167Bone-related conditions

AMG 172Various cancer types

AMG 208Various cancer types

AMG 232Various cancer types

AMG 319Hematologic malignancies

AMG 334Migraine

AMG 337Various cancer types

AMG 357Autoimmune diseases

AMG 557Systemic lupus erythematosus

AMG 595Glioblastoma

AMG 729Autoimmune diseases

AMG 780Various cancer types

AMG 811Systemic lupus erythematosus

AMG 820Various cancer types

AMG 876Type 2 diabetes

AMG 900Various cancer types












Phase 1clinical trials investigate safety and proper dose ranges of a product candidate in a small number of human subjects.Phase 2clinical trials investigate side effect profiles and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.Phase 3clinical trials investigate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.



The following text provides additional information about selected product candidates that have advanced into human clinical trials.

AMG 145

AMG 145 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 (PCSK9). It is being investigated as a treatment for hyperlipidemia.

Phase 2 study results evaluating AMG 145 were reported at a medical meeting in November 2012 in the following four areas: as monotherapy, in combination with statin therapy, in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, and in statin-intolerant subjects. Based on the study results, phase 3 enrollment is underway in these populations.

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)

Aranesp®is a recombinant human protein agonist of the erythropoietin receptor.

The phase 3 study of Aranesp®for the treatment of low risk myelodysplastic syndromes is ongoing.

Brodalumab

Brodalumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the interleukin-17 receptor. It is being investigated as a treatment for a variety of inflammatory diseases. Brodalumab is one of five inflammation monoclonal antibodies being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca.

In 2012, we initiated three phase 3 studies for the treatment of psoriasis.  We completed our phase 2 study in psoriatic arthritis in 2012.  Brodalumab is also being evaluated for the treatment of asthma.

Denosumab

Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody that specifically targets a ligand known as RANKL (that binds to a receptor known as RANK) which is a key mediator of osteoclast formation, function, and survival. It is being investigated across a range of conditions including osteoporosis, treatment-induced bone loss, RA and numerous tumor types across the spectrum of cancer-related bone diseases, including hypercalcemia of malignancy.

Prolia®(denosumab)

In September 2012, Prolia®was approved by the FDA for the treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture in the US. A phase 3 study of Prolia®for the treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis was initiated  in 2012.

XGEVA®(denosumab)

In June 2012, we submitted a marketing application to the EMA for XGEVA®to treat men with castration-resistant prostate cancer at high risk of developing bone metastases.

In December 2012, we submitted marketing applications to the FDA and EMA for XGEVA®for the treatment of GCTB in adults or skeletally mature adolescents.

Phase 3 studies for the delay or prevention of bone metastases in patients with adjuvant breast cancer and prevention of SRE in patients with multiple myeloma are ongoing.

Rilotumumab

Rilotumumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In 2012, we initiated a phase 3 study for the treatment of gastric cancer.












Romosozumab

Romosozumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of sclerostin. Romosozumab is being developed in collaboration with UCB for PMO.

In 2012, we initiated two phase 3 studies for the treatment of PMO in women.

After reviewing the 52-week tibia data and recent regulatory guidance that deemed acceleration of fracture healing a non-viable endpoint for a phase 3 program, it was determined that we would not pursue this indication. This decision is based on the regulatory guidance and on the efficacy results from the acceleration of fracture healing endpoint in the tibia trial, not on safety. The safety profile remains consistent with what has been seen in the PMO program.

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)

Sensipar®/Mimpara®is an orally-administered small molecule that lowers PTH levels in blood by increasing sensitivity of the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) to extracellular calcium. It is being evaluated in post renal transplant patients.

Talimogene laherparepvec

Talimogene laherparepvec is an oncolytic immunotherapy derived from HSV-1. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

The phase 3 study for the treatment of melanoma is ongoing.

Trebananib

Trebananib is a peptibody that inhibits the interaction between the endothelial cell-selective Tie2 receptor and its ligands Ang1 and Ang2. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

Phase 3 studies of trebananib for the treatment of first-line and recurrent ovarian cancer are ongoing. Phase 2 studies of  trebananib for treatment of renal cell carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma and NSCLC are ongoing.

Vectibix®(panitumumab)

Vectibix®is a human monoclonal antibody antagonist of the EGFr pathway. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In July 2011, we announced that we received Complete Response Letters from the FDA on the first- and second-line line mCRC sBLAs requesting additional information from the '181 and '203 studies.  We are currently working on addressing the FDA's requests in the Complete Response Letters.

AMG 151

AMG 151 is a small molecule glucokinase activator.  It is being investigated as a treatment for type 2 diabetes. We completed our phase 2 study in 2012.

AMG 181

AMG 181 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of alpha4/beta7. It is being investigated as a treatment for ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, with phase 2 studies initiated in 2012. AMG 181 is one of five inflammation monoclonal antibodies being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca.

AMG 416

AMG 416 is a peptide agonist of the human cell surface CaSR. It is being investigated as a treatment for secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD receiving dialysis.

We completed two phase 2 studies in 2012. Phase 3 initiation is planned in 2013.

AMG 747

AMG 747 is a small molecule inhibitor of glycine transporter type-1 (GlyT-1). It is being investigated as a treatment for negative symptoms and cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia, with two phase 2 studies initiated in 2012.

Blinatumomab

Blinatumomab is an anti-CD19 x anti-CD3 (BiTE®) bispecific antibody.  It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.












In December 2012, we reported the results from a phase 2 adult ALL relapsed refractory study at a medical meeting.  Phase 2 studies in adult patients with relapsed/refractory and minimal residual disease of ALL and a phase 2 study in adult patients with NHL are ongoing.

Omecamtiv mecarbil

Omecamtiv mecarbil is a small molecule activator of cardiac myosin. It is being investigated for the treatment of heart failure. We are developing this product in collaboration with Cytokinetics, Inc.

A phase 2 study of an intravenous formulation of omecamtiv mecarbil in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction, who are hospitalized with acute heart failure, is ongoing.

Amgen Development of Biosimilars

As previously announced, we are collaborating with Actavis, Inc. (formerly Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) to develop and commercialize, on a worldwide basis, several oncology antibody biosimilar medicines. The products our collaboration is pursuing include biosimilar versions of bevacizumab (sold by Genentech/Roche under the brand name Avastin®), trastuzumab (sold by Genentech/Roche under the brand names Herceptin®/Herclon®), rituximab (sold by Roche under the brand names Rituxan®/Mabthera®) and cetuximab (sold by Eli Lilly/BMS under the brand name Erbitux®).

We are also working to develop biosimilar versions of adalimumab (sold by AbbVie under the brand name HUMIRA®) and infliximab (sold by Janssen/Merck under the brand name REMICADE®).

Our biosimilar product candidates are in varying stages of regulatory development. We expect that any revenue contribution from these biosimilar programs, if successful, would not occur for a number of years.

Phase 3 Product Candidate Program Changes

As of February 10, 2012, we had 12 phase 3 programs. As of February 11, 2013, we had 14phase 3 programs, as six programs had advanced into phase 3 trials, three programs had concluded and all rights to one program were out-licensed. These changes are set forth in the following table:

MoleculeDisease / ConditionProgram ChangeAMG 145HyperlipidemiaAdvanced to phase 3Aranesp®Anemia in heart failureConcluded - failed to meet primary endpoint(s)Brodalumab (AMG 827)PsoriasisAdvanced to phase 3GanitumabPancreatic cancerConcluded - failed to meet primary endpoint(s)Prolia®(denosumab)Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosisAdvanced to phase 3Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)Cardiovascular disease in patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism and CKD undergoing maintenance dialysisConcluded - failed to meet primary endpoint(s)RilotumumabGastric cancerAdvanced to phase 3Romosozumab (AMG 785)PMOAdvanced to phase 3MotesanibFirst-line NSCLCLicensed all rights to this program to Takeda(1)XGEVA®(denosumab)Cancer-related bone damage (SREs) in  patients with multiple myelomaAdvanced to phase 3

(1)See Business Relationships.














Phase 3 Product Candidate Patent Information



The following table describes our outstanding composition of matter patents that have issued thus far for our product candidates in phase 3 development that have yet to be approved for any indication. Patents for products already approved for one or more indications but currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials for additional indications are previously described. See Marketed Products.

MoleculeTerritoryGeneral Subject MatterEstimated Expiration*AMG 145U.S.Polypeptides2029Brodalumab (AMG 827)U.S.Polynucleotides and polypeptides2027Romosozumab (AMG 785)U.S.Polypeptides2026Talimogene laherparepvecU.S.Modified HSV1 compounds and strains2021EuropeModified HSV1 compounds and strains2021Trebananib (AMG 386)U.S.Polynucleotides and polypeptides2025EuropePolynucleotides and polypeptides2022

*Patent expiration estimates are based on issued patents which may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors. The patent expiration estimates do not include any term adjustments, extensions or supplemental protection certificates that may be obtained in the future and extend these dates. Corresponding patent applications are pending in other jurisdictions. Additional patents may be filed or issued in the future and may provide additional exclusivity for the product candidate or its use.



Business Relationships

From time to time, we enter into business relationships, including joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for the R&D, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and/or product candidates. In addition, we also acquire product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D collaborations with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These arrangements generally provide for non-refundable, upfront license fees, development and commercial performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing. The activities under these collaboration agreements are performed with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success, and each is unique in nature.



Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require counterparties to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of the business relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or obtain access to our information.



Kirin-Amgen, Inc.



K-A is a 50-50 joint venture with Kirin. K-A develops and then out licenses to third parties certain product rights which have been transferred to this joint venture from Amgen and Kirin.



K-A has given us exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and pegfilgrastim in the United States, Europe, Canada and Australia, (ii) darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and brodalumab in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East, and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in the United States. We currently market pegfilgrastim, G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim under the brand names Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®/GRANULOKINE®, Aranesp®, EPOGEN®and Nplate®, respectively.  Under these agreements, we pay K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, we also receive payments from K-A for milestones earned and for conducting certain R&D activities on its behalf. See Note 7, Related party transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



K-A has also given Kirin exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and pegfilgrastim in Japan, Taiwan and South Korea, (ii) darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and brodalumab in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea and in certain other countries and/or regions in Asia and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in Japan.  K-A also gave Kirin and Amgen co-exclusive licenses to manufacture and market G-CSF, pegfilgrastim and recombinant human erythropoietin in China, which Amgen subsequently assigned to Kirin, and as a result, Kirin now exclusively manufactures and markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in China. Kirin markets G-CSF, pegfilgrastim, darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and recombinant human erythropoietin under the










brand names GRAN®/Grasin®, Neulasta®, NESP®, ROMIPLATE®and ESPO®, respectively. Under these agreements, Kirin pays K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, Kirin also receives payments from K-A for conducting certain R&D activities on its behalf.



K-A has also given J&J exclusive licenses to manufacture and market recombinant human erythropoietin for all geographic areas of the world outside the United States, China and Japan. K-A has also given Roche exclusive licenses to market pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in all territories not licensed to Amgen and Kirin. Under these agreements, J&J and Roche pay royalties to K-A based on product sales.



Pfizer Inc.



We are in a collaboration with Pfizer to co-promote ENBREL in the United States and Canada. The rights to market ENBREL outside the United States and Canada are reserved to Pfizer. Under the agreement, a management committee comprised of equal representation from Amgen and Pfizer is responsible for overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL, including strategic planning, the approval of an annual marketing plan, product pricing and the establishment of a brand team. Amgen and Pfizer share in the agreed-upon selling and marketing expenses approved by the joint management committee. We currently pay Pfizer a percentage of annual gross profits on our ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada attributable to all approved indications on a scale that increases as gross profits increase; however, we maintain a majority share of ENBREL profits. After expiration of the co-promotion term on October 31, 2013, we will be required to pay Pfizer residual royalties based on a declining percentage of annual net ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada for three years, ranging from 12% to 10%. The amounts of such payments are anticipated to be significantly less than what would be owed based on the terms of the current ENBREL profit share.Effective November 1, 2016, there will be no further royalty payments.



Glaxo Group Limited



We are in a collaboration with Glaxo for the commercialization of denosumab for osteoporosis indications in Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico (the Primary Territories). We have retained the rights to commercialize denosumab for all indications in the United States and Canada and for oncology indications in the Primary Territories. Under a related agreement, Glaxo will commercialize denosumab for all indications in countries, excluding Japan, where we did not have a commercial presence at the commencement of the agreement, including China, Brazil, India, Taiwan and South Korea (the Expansion Territories). In the Expansion Territories, Glaxo is responsible for all development and commercialization costs and will purchase denosumab from us to meet demand. We have the option of expanding our role in the commercialization of denosumab in the Primary Territories and certain of the Expansion Territories. In the Primary Territories, we share equally in the commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting for expenses, including an amount payable to us in recognition of our discovery and development of denosumab. Glaxo is also responsible for bearing a portion of the cost of certain specified development activities in the Primary Territories.



Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited



In 2008, we entered into an arrangement with Takeda, that provided Takeda both: (i) the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize for the Japanese market up to 12 molecules from our portfolio across a range of therapeutic areas, including oncology and inflammation (collectively the “Japanese market products”) and (ii) the right to collaborate with us on the worldwide (outside Japan) development and commercialization of our product candidate, motesanib. The Japanese market products include Vectibix®and certain product candidates.



In 2011, we announced that the motesanib pivotal phase 3 trial (MONET1) did not meet its primary objective of demonstrating an improvement in overall survival.



In June 2012, the parties materially modified this arrangement such that Amgen licensed all of its rights to motesanib to Takeda which now has control over the worldwide development and commercialization of motesanib.



AstraZeneca Plc.

We are in a collaboration with AstraZeneca to jointly develop and commercialize certain monoclonal antibodies from Amgen's clinical inflammation portfolio, including brodalumab, AMG 139, AMG 157, AMG 181 and AMG 557. The agreement covers the worldwide development and commercialization, except for certain Asian countries for brodalumab and Japan for AMG 557, that are licensed to other third parties.










Under the terms of the agreement, approximately 65% of related development costs for the 2012-2014 periods will be funded by AstraZeneca; thereafter, the companies will share costs equally. If approved for sale, Amgen would receive a low-single-digit royalty rate for brodalumab and a mid-single-digit royalty rate for the rest of the portfolio, after which the worldwide commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration products would be shared equally.

UCB

We are in a collaboration with UCB for the development and commercialization of romosozumab. We have the rights to commercialize romosozumab for all indications in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Japan. UCB has the rights for all EU members at the time of first regulatory approval, Australia and New Zealand. Prior to commercialization, countries that have not been initially designated will be designated to Amgen or UCB in accordance with the terms of the agreement.

Generally, development costs are shared equally and we will share equally in the worldwide commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting for expenses.

DaVita Inc.



We are in a seven-year supply agreement with DaVita that commenced January 1, 2012. Pursuant to this agreement, we will supply EPOGEN®in amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of DaVita's and its affiliates' requirements for ESAs used in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico.  The agreement may be terminated by either party before expiration of its term in the event of certain breaches of the agreement by the other party.



Human Resources

As of December 31, 2012, Amgen had approximately 18,000 staff members. We consider our staff relations to be good.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company as of February 13, 2013, are as follows:

Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 50, has served as a director of the Company since October 2011 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 1, 2013. Mr. Bradway has been the Company's President since May 2010 and Chief Executive Officer since May 2012. From May 2010 to May 2012, Mr. Bradway served as the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Bradway joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations Strategy, and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2007 to May 2010. Prior to joining the Company, he was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in London where he had responsibility for the firm's banking department and corporate finance activities in Europe and focused on healthcare.



Mr. Madhavan (Madhu) Balachandran, age 62, became Executive Vice President, Operations in August 2012. Mr. Balachandran joined the Company in 1997 and has held leadership positions in engineering, information systems and operations.  From October 2007 to August 2012, Mr. Balachandran was Senior Vice President, Manufacturing. From February 2007 to October 2007, Mr. Balachandran was Vice President, Site Operations. From May 2002 to February 2007, Mr. Balachandran was Vice President, Puerto Rico Operations. Prior to 2002, Mr. Balachandran served as Associate Director, Capital Projects, before his promotion to Director, Engineering, and then to Vice President, Information Management.



Dr. Sean E. Harper, age 50, became Executive Vice President, Research and Development in February 2012. Dr. Harper joined the Company in 2002 and has held leadership roles in early development, medical sciences and global regulatory and safety. Dr. Harper served as Senior Vice President, Global Development and Corporate Chief Medical Officer from March 2007 to February 2012. Prior to joining the Company, Dr. Harper worked for five years at Merck Research Laboratories.



Mr. Anthony C. Hooper, age 58, became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations, in October 2011. From March 2010 to October 2011, Mr. Hooper was Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations and President, U.S., Japan and Intercontinental of BMS, a pharmaceutical company. From January 2009 to March 2010, Mr. Hooper was President, Americas of BMS. From January 2004 to January 2009, Mr. Hooper was President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals Group, a division of BMS. Prior to that, Mr. Hooper held various senior leadership positions at BMS. In his roles at BMS, Mr. Hooper led commercial operations in mature and emerging markets. Prior to joining BMS, Mr. Hooper was Assistant Vice President of Global Marketing for Wyeth Laboratories.



Mr. Brian McNamee, age 56, became Senior Vice President, Human Resources in June 2001. From November 1999 to June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division of GE. From July 1988










to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resources positions at GE.



Ms. Cynthia M. Patton, age 51, became Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer in October 2012. Ms. Patton joined the Company in 2005. From September 2010 to October 2012, Ms. Patton was Vice President, Law. From July 2005 to September 2010, Ms. Patton was Associate General Counsel. Previously, Ms. Patton served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of SCAN Health Plan from 1999 to 2005.



Mr. Jonathan M. Peacock, age 54, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2010. Prior to joining Amgen and beginning in 2005, Mr. Peacock served as Chief Financial and Administration Officer of Novartis Pharmaceuticals AG, a healthcare company based in Switzerland. From 1998 to 2005, Mr. Peacock was a partner at McKinsey and Co., where he co-led the firm's European Corporate Finance Practice. Mr. Peacock was also a partner at Price Waterhouse in London and New York from 1993 to 1998.



Mr. David J. Scott, age 60, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2004. From May 1999 to February 2004, Mr. Scott served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Medtronic, Inc., and also as Secretary from January 2000. From December 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Scott served as General Counsel of London-based United Distillers & Vintners. Mr. Scott also served in executive roles at Grand Metropolitan plc and RJR Nabisco, Inc., and was an attorney in private practice.



Geographic Area Financial Information

For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Note 19, Segment information — Geographic information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Investor Information

Financial and other information about us is available on our website (http://www.amgen.com) (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not intended to be a part of this filing). We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or submitting such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. In addition, we have previously filed registration statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, or at the SEC’s internet address at http://www.sec.gov. (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing). Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330 (800-732-0330).












