Item 1.BUSINESS

Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as “Amgen,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”)is committed to unlocking the potential of biology for patients suffering from serious illnesses by discovering, developing, manufacturing and delivering innovative human therapeutics. This approach begins by using tools like advanced human genetics to unravel the complexities of disease and understand the fundamentals of human biology.

Amgen focuses on areas of high unmet medical need and leverages its biologics manufacturing expertise to strive for solutions that improve health outcomes and dramatically improve people's lives. A biotechnology pioneer, Amgen has grown to be the world's largest independent biotechnology company, has reached millions of patients around the world and is developing a pipeline of medicines with breakaway potential.

We were incorporated in California in 1980 and became a Delaware corporation in 1987. Amgen operates in one business segment: human therapeutics.



Significant Developments

Following is a summary of significant developments that occurred in 2013 and early 2014 affecting our business.

Acquisition

•In October 2013, we acquired Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Onyx), a global biopharmaceutical company engaged in the development and commercialization of innovative therapies for improving the lives of people with certain cancers. Onyx has a growing multiple myeloma franchise, with Kyprolis®(carfilzomib) for Injection already approved in the United States (U.S.), and with oprozomib being evaluated in clinical trials for patients with hematologic malignancies. In addition, Onyx has three partnered oncology assets: Nexavar®(sorafenib) tablets (an Onyx and Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Bayer) compound), Stivarga®(regorafenib) tablets (a Bayer compound), and palbociclib (a Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer) compound). See Note 2, Business combinations to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We believe there is a significant opportunity to grow Kyprolis®. Ongoing studies to support and extend the position of Kyprolis®in multiple myeloma include:

•The FOCUS trial, which could support the European Union (EU) filing for the indication of relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma;

•The ASPIRE trial, which is the confirmatory trial for full U.S. approval as well as a registration-enabling study for relapsed multiple myeloma in the United States and the EU;

•The ENDEAVOR trial, which compares Kyprolis®with Velcade®(bortezomib) in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma who have received one to three prior therapies; and

•The CLARION trial, which compares Kyprolis®with Velcade®in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma.

Pipeline

Evolocumab (AMG 145)

•In December 2013 and January 2014, we announced results from five phase 3 lipid lowering clinical studies evaluating evolocumab as a monotherapy, in combination with statin therapy, in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, in statin-intolerant subjects, and in combination with optimized lipid lowering therapy in a 52 week safety and efficacy study. All five of these studies met their primary endpoints.

In a separate phase 3 study of our devices for use in combination with evolocumab, 95 percent or greater of the 164 patients enrolled were able to self-administer at least one full home administration of evolocumab 420 mg subcutaneously by one injection with an automated mini-doser or by three injections with a standard spring-based autoinjector. Reductions in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) were comparable with both devices.










Ivabradine

•In August 2013, we obtained the commercial rights in the United States to Servier's novel oral drug ivabradine, a small molecule inhibitor of the cardiac f-current (If). Ivabradine is approved in the EU and many other jurisdictions outside of the United States as Procoralan®for chronic heart failure and stable angina in patients with elevated heart rates.

Talimogene Laherparepvec

•In March 2013, we announced results from the phase 3 trial in melanoma, which evaluated the efficacy and safety of talimogene laherparepvec for the treatment of unresected stage IIIB, IIIC or IV melanoma compared to treatment with subcutaneous granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF).

The study met its primary endpoint of durable response rate (DRR), defined as the rate of complete or partial response lasting continuously for at least six months. A statistically significant difference was observed in DRR: 16 percent in the talimogene laherparepvec arm versus two percent in the GM-CSF arm. A pre-planned interim analysis conducted with the analysis of DRR has shown an overall survival (OS) trend in favor of talimogene laherparepvec as compared to GM-CSF. The analysis of OS, a key secondary endpoint of the study, is event driven.

Trebananib

•In June 2013, we announced that the phase 3 TRINOVA-1 trial evaluating trebananib plus paclitaxel versus placebo plus paclitaxel in recurrent ovarian cancer met its primary endpoint of progression-free survival (PFS). A statistically significant difference was observed in PFS with a 34 percent reduction in the risk of disease progression or death. The median PFS was 7.2 months in the trebananib arm versus 5.4 months in the control arm. The primary analysis of the OS secondary endpoint is event driven.












Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products

We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United States and Europe. Additionally, we continue to expand the commercialization and marketing of our products into new geographic markets, including such countries as Japan and China. This is achieved either through building our own sales and marketing force or in partnership with third parties. See Business Relationships. Together with our partners, we market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. We also market certain products directly to consumers through direct-to-consumer print and television advertising, as well as through the Internet.See Government Regulation — Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion for a discussion of government regulation of product marketing and promotion.

In the United States, we sell primarily to pharmaceutical wholesale distributors. We utilize those wholesale distributors as the principal means of distributing our products to U.S. healthcare providers. In Europe, we sell principally to healthcare providers and/or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors depending on the distribution practice in each country. We monitor the financial condition of our larger customers, and we limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits and, for certain customers, may require letters of credit.

Our product sales to three large wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. On a combined basis, these wholesalers accounted for approximately 93%, 94% and 90% of our gross product sales in the United States, respectively, and approximately 75%, 76% and 72% of our total worldwide gross revenues, respectively.

For financial information related to our one business segment, see Part IV — Consolidated Statements of Income, Consolidated Balance Sheets and Note 19, Segment information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We market our principal products primarily in the United States in cancer care, inflammation, nephrology and bone disease. The following charts show our product sales by principal product and by geography for each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.



Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)/NEUPOGEN®(filgrastim)

We market Neulasta®, a pegylated protein based on the filgrastim molecule, and NEUPOGEN®, a recombinant-methionyl human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), primarily in the United States and Europe. Neulasta®was launched in 2002 and is indicated to decrease the incidence of infection associated with chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies. NEUPOGEN®was launched in 1991 and is approved for five different indications. It is used primarily for reducing the incidence of infection as manifested by febrile neutropenia for patients with non-myeloid malignancies undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy associated with a significant incidence of severe neutropenia with fever.












Enbrel®(etanercept)

We market ENBREL primarily in the United States.  It was launched in 1998 and is used primarily in the approved indications for the treatment of adult patients with the following conditions:

•moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis,

•chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis patients who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy, and

•active psoriatic arthritis.

The rights to market and sell ENBREL outside the United States and Canada are reserved to Pfizer.

ESAs (erythropoiesis-stimulating agents)

Our ESAs include both Aranesp®and EPOGEN®. Beginning in 2006, safety concerns contributed to regulatory and reimbursement changes impacting the way ESAs are used in clinical practice. This includes decreasing the number of patients treated with ESAs as well as the average dose and duration of ESA therapy. Certain of these developments have had a material adverse impact on both Aranesp®and EPOGEN®sales.

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)

We market Aranesp®primarily in Europe and in the United States. It was launched in 2001 and is indicated for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) (in both patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis) and the treatment of anemia due to concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy in patients with non-myeloid malignancies.

EPOGEN®(epoetin alfa)

We market EPOGEN®in the United States for dialysis patients. It was launched in 1989, and we market it for the approved indication to treat a lower-than-normal number of red blood cells (anemia) caused by CKD in patients on dialysis to lessen the need for red blood cell transfusions. The majority of our sales are to two large dialysis providers. We granted Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson (J&J) (which has assigned its rights under the Product License Agreement to their subsidiary, Janssen Biotech, Inc. (Janssen)), a license to commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin in the United States in all indications other than dialysis.

XGEVA®/Prolia®(denosumab)

We market XGEVA®and Prolia®primarily in the United States and Europe. Both products contain the same active ingredient but are approved for different indications, patient populations, doses and frequencies of administration.

XGEVA®was launched in the United States in 2010 and is indicated for the prevention of skeletal-related events (SREs) (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors. It is not indicated for the prevention of SREs in patients with multiple myeloma. XGEVA®was launched in Europe in 2011 and is indicated for the prevention of SREs in adults with bone metastases from solid tumors.

Prolia®was launched in the United States and Europe in 2010.  In the United States, it has four different approved indications and is used primarily in the indication for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture, or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. In Europe, Prolia®is used primarily for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fractures.

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)

We market cinacalcet as Sensipar®primarily in the United States and as Mimpara®primarily in Europe. It was launched in 2004 and is used primarily in the approved indication for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD patients on dialysis.

Other Marketed Products

We market several other products including Nplate®(romiplostim) and Vectibix®(panitumumab).












Patents

The following table describes our outstanding material patents for the indicated product by territory, general subject matter and latest expiry date. One or more patents with the same or earlier expiry date may fall under the same “general subject matter” and are not separately listed.





ProductTerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpiration

Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)U.S.Pegylated G-CSF10/20/2015

EuropePegylated G-CSF(1)2/8/2015

Enbrel®(etanercept)U.S.Methods of treating psoriasis8/13/2019

U.S.Aqueous formulation and methods of treatment using the formulation(2)6/8/2023

U.S.Fusion protein, and pharmaceutical compositions11/22/2028

U.S.DNA encoding fusion protein, and methods of making fusion protein4/24/2029

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)U.S.Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins5/15/2024

EuropeGlycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins(1)8/16/2014

EPOGEN®(epoetin alfa)U.S.Pharmaceutical erythropoietin formulation with certain stabilizers8/26/2014

U.S.Cells that make certain levels of erythropoietin5/26/2015

Prolia®/XGEVA®(denosumab)U.S.RANKL antibodies; and methods of use(3)12/22/2017

U.S.Methods of treatment6/25/2022

U.S.Nucleic acids encoding RANKL antibodies, and methods of producing RANKL antibodies11/30/2023

U.S.RANKL antibodies including sequences2/19/2025

EuropeRANKL antibodies(1)12/22/2017

EuropeMedical use of RANKL antibodies(1)4/15/2018

EuropeRANKL antibodies including epitope binding2/23/2021

EuropeRANKL antibodies including sequences(1)6/25/2022

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)U.S.Calcium receptor-active molecules including species10/23/2015

U.S.Methods of treatment12/14/2016

U.S.Calcium receptor-active molecules3/8/2018

EuropeCalcium receptor-active molecules(1)10/23/2015

Vectibix®(panitumumab)U.S.Human monoclonal antibodies to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFr)4/8/2020

EuropeHuman monoclonal antibodies to EGFr(1)5/5/2018

Nplate®(romiplostim)U.S.Thrombopoietic compounds1/19/2022

EuropeThrombopoietic compounds(1)10/22/2019

Kyprolis®(carfilzomib)U.S.Compositions, and methods of treatment(3)4/14/2025

EuropeCompositions8/8/2025

(1)A European patent with this subject matter is also entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates have been issued related to the indicated products for patents in at least the following countries:

•pegfilgrastim -  France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2017

•darbepoetin alfa - France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2016

•denosumab - France, Italy and Spain, expiring in2025

•cinacalcet - France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2019

•panitumumab - France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2022

•romiplostim - France, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2024

(2)This formulation patent relates to the currently approved liquid formulation of ENBREL, which formulation accounts for the majority of ENBREL sales in the United States. However, ENBREL is also sold as an alternative lyophilized formulation that requires reconstituting before it can be administered to the patient.

(3)A patent with this subject matter may be entitled to patent term extension in the United States.

Our material U.S. patents for filgrastim (NEUPOGEN®) expired in December 2013.












Competition

Certain of our marketed products face — and our product candidates, if approved, are also expected to face — substantial competition. Our products’ competitive positions among other biological and pharmaceutical products may be based on, among other things, safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, patient convenience/delivery devices, price, reimbursement, timing of market entry and patent position and expirations.

Certain of the existing patents on our principal products have recently expired or will expire over the next few years, and we expect to face increasing competition thereafter, including from biosimilars. A biosimilar is another version of a biological product for which marketing approval is sought or has been obtained based on a demonstration that it is “biosimilar” to the original reference product. See Government Regulation. We may also compete against biosimilar or generic versions of our competitors’ products. In the EU, we are facing increasing competition from biosimilars. In the United States after patent expiration, we expect to face greater competition than today, including from manufacturers with biosimilars approved in Europe, which may seek to obtain U.S. approval.

Some of our products compete with each other. For example, Aranesp®and EPOGEN®compete in the United States, primarily in the dialysis setting. Neulasta®competes with NEUPOGEN®,as Neulasta®is administered as a single dose per chemotherapy cycle while NEUPOGEN®requires more frequent dosing. NEUPOGEN®sales have been adversely impacted by conversion to Neulasta®, which we believe is substantially complete.

The introduction of new products, the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or the emergence of new information about existing products may result in increased competition for our marketed products, even for those protected by patents, or in a reduction of the price that we receive from selling our products. In addition, the development of new treatment options or standards of care may reduce the use of our products or may limit the utility and application of ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates. The following table reflects our significant competitors and is not exhaustive.

ProductTerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorsNeulasta®/NEUPOGEN®U.S.Granix®(1)Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Teva)EuropeLonquex®(2)TevaEuropeFilgrastim biosimilars(3)VariousENBRELU.S. & CanadaREMICADE®Janssen/Merck & Company, Inc.U.S. & CanadaHUMIRA®AbbVie Inc.U.S. & CanadaStelara®(4)JanssenAranesp®U.S.PROCRIT®(5)JanssenEuropeEPREX®/ERYPO®Janssen-CilagEuropeEpoetin alfa biosimilars(3)VariousEuropeMIRCERA®(6)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (Roche)XGEVA®U.S. & EuropeZometa®Novartis AG (Novartis)U.S. & EuropeZoledronate genericsVariousProlia®U.S. & EuropeAlendronate genericsVariousU.S. & EuropeEvista®Eli Lilly and Company (Eli Lilly)U.S. & EuropeZoledronate genericsVariousSensipar®(7)/Mimpara®U.S. & EuropeActive Vitamin D analogsVariousVectibix®U.S. & EuropeErbitux®Eli Lilly/Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS); Merck KGaAU.S. & EuropeAvastin®Genentech, Inc.Nplate®U.S. & EuropePromacta®/Revolade®GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK)Kyprolis®U.S.Velcade®Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.U.S.Revlimid®Celgene CorporationU.S.Pomalyst®Celgene Corporation

(1)Granix®launched at the end of 2013 and may have a material adverse impact over time on sales of NEUPOGEN®and, to a lesser extent, Neulasta®.












(2)Lonquex®is a long-acting filgrastim product recently launched in Europe.

(3)Approved via the EU biosimilar regulatory pathway.

(4)Dermatology only.

(5)PROCRIT®competes with Aranesp®in the supportive cancer care and pre-dialysis settings.

(6)Competes with Aranesp®in the nephrology segment only.

(7)Teva and Barr Pharmaceuticals have received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for generic versions of Sensipar®that could compete with Sensipar®in the future. There is an injunction prohibiting them from commercializing in the United States until expiration of the patents.

We anticipate EPOGEN®and Aranesp®may begin to face competition during the second half of 2014 from the launch of MIRCERA®in the United States. Pursuant to a December 2009 settlement agreement between Amgen and Roche, Roche is allowed to begin selling MIRCERA®in the United States in mid-2014 under terms of a limited license agreement. MIRCERA®has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal failure in patients on and not on dialysis.



Reimbursement

Particular legislative proposals that would have a significant impact on Amgen include: changes to how the Medicare program covers and reimburses oral-only drugs for patients with End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) (including Sensipar®) and changes in the payment rate or new rebate requirements for covered drugs (which could impact many of our principal products, including Aranesp®, Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®, Prolia®and XGEVA®).

Efforts are also being made in the private sector to reduce healthcare costs, notably by healthcare payers and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. We expect insurers and providers to continue efforts to reduce the cost and/or utilization of healthcare products, including our products.

Generally, in countries outside the United States, government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for drugs and biologics. With increased budgetary constraints, payers in many countries employ a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure. These measures can include mandatory price controls, price referencing, therapeutic reference pricing, increasing mandates or incentives for generic substitution and biosimilar usage, and government-mandated price cuts. In addition, healthcare reform and related legislative proposals in such countries as France, Germany and Poland, as well as austerity plans in a number of countries, including Spain, Greece, Italy, Ireland and Portugal, have targeted the pharmaceutical sector with multiple mechanisms to reduce government healthcare expenditures. We expect that countries will continue to take aggressive actions to reduce expenditures on drugs and biologics. Similarly, fiscal constraints may also impact the extent to which countries are willing to approve new innovative therapies and/or allow access to new technologies. For example, many Health Technology Assessment (HTA) organizations use formal economic metrics such as cost-effectiveness to determine coverage and reimbursement of new therapies, and these organizations are proliferating in established and emerging markets.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.












Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials

Manufacturing

The products we manufacture include both biologics and small molecule drugs. The majority of our products are biologics which are produced in living systems and are inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory-scale processes into reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. For additional information regarding manufacturing facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

We perform most of our bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish activities in our Puerto Rico facility and also conduct finish activities in the Netherlands. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers:

•to manufacture Sensipar®/Mimpara®, except for certain fill and finish activities performed by us in Puerto Rico;

•to supplement commercial bulk manufacturing, as needed, for ENBREL, Prolia®, XGEVA®and Vectibix®;

•to fill and finish certain portions of ENBREL; and

•to formulate, fill and finish Nplate®.

In addition, we utilize single-source third-party contract manufacturers for Kyprolis®.

Clinical bulk, formulation, fill and finish manufacturing facilities are operated primarily in our Thousand Oaks, California, location. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers for certain clinical products.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and the global supply of our products.

Distribution

We operate distribution centers in the United States — principally in Kentucky and California — and the Netherlands for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and clinical products. We also use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our products in certain areas of the world.

Other

In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities noted above, our operations in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Netherlands include key manufacturing support functions, including quality control, process development, procurement, production scheduling and warehousing. Certain of those manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated by the FDA as well as other international regulatory agencies. See Government Regulation — Regulation of Manufacturing Standards.

Manufacturing Initiatives

We have multiple ongoing initiatives that are designed to optimize our manufacturing network and/or mitigate manufacturing risks while continuing to ensure adequate supply of our commercial products. The facilities impacted by these initiatives will require qualification and licensure by various regulatory authorities. These initiatives include the construction of a formulation and fill facility at our Puerto Rico site; and as part of a risk mitigation strategy, we plan modification and expansion of our acquired formulation, fill and finish site in Ireland to manufacture our products.

In 2013, Amgen announced a planned expansion in Singapore. The facility will initially focus on expanding Amgen’s capability to manufacture monoclonal antibodies while bringing new technology and innovation. Once completed, the facility will be fully reconfigurable, providing efficient manufacturing capabilities that will help ensure supply of our products to patients worldwide.

In addition to these initiatives, we have projects designed to operate our facilities at appropriate production capacity over the next few years, to further optimize manufacturing asset utilization, to continue our use of third-party contract manufacturers and to maintain a state of regulatory compliance. See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.

Raw Materials and Medical Devices

Certain raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the commercial and/or clinical manufacturing of our products are provided by and are the proprietary products of unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only sources for such materials. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by inventory management,












relationship management and evaluation of alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial condition of certain suppliers and their ability to supply our needs. See Item 1A. Risk Factors — We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.

We perform various procedures to assist in authenticating the source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used in the manufacture of our products, which include verification of the country of origin. These procedures are incorporated into the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract manufacturers perform.



Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development (R&D) activities. In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies.

Regulation in the United States

In the United States, the Public Health Service Act, the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the production, research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion, and distribution of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative and/or judicially imposed sanctions. The sanctions could include the FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawals of approvals, delay or suspension of clinical trials, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution.

Clinical Development and Product Approval.Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and risky; and failure rates are high. Product development cycles are very long - approximately 10 to 15 years from discovery to market. A potential new medicine must undergo many years of preclinical and clinical testing to establish its safety and efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels and with an acceptable benefit-risk profile.

After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, we file an Investigational New Drug Application (IND) with the FDA to begin human testing. Typically, we undertake an FDA-designated three-phase human clinical testing program.

•In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product candidates in a small number of human subjects.

•In phase 2, we conduct clinical trials to investigate side effect profiles and the efficacy of our product candidates in a larger number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

•In phase 3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

The FDA monitors the progress of each trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion, re-evaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based on the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s risk/benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in the trial. The results of preclinical and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of a Biologics License Application (BLA) for biologic products or a New Drug Application for small molecule products. We cannot market or promote a new product until our marketing application has been approved by the FDA.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our development of commercial products.

Post-approval Phase.After approval, we monitor adverse events reported following the use of our products through post marketing surveillance or studies, other research approaches and risk management activities. We report such events to the appropriate regulatory agencies as required per local regulations.We design and implement comprehensive proactive pharmacovigilance programs for all of our products to help ensure the detection, assessment and communication of adverse events that may be associated with the use of our products. We may also be required by regulatory agencies to conduct further clinical trials on our marketed products as a condition of their approval or to provide additional information on safety and efficacy. Failure to conduct such required trials in a timely manner may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties. Reported adverse events or data resulting from post-approval trials may result in additional limitations being placed on a product’s use or on reimbursement provided by payers for our products, or withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA has authority to mandate labeling changes to products at any point in a product’s lifecycle based on new safety information or as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products.










The FDA also has the authority, before or after approval, to require companies to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. Each REMS is unique and varies depending on the specific factors required. Failure to comply with a REMS may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and can result in additional limitations being placed on a product’s use or withdrawal of the product from the market. We currently have REMS for our ESAs, Prolia®and Nplate®.

Approval of Biosimilars

Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. The FDA regulates the marketing and promotion of products. Our product promotion for approved product indications must comply with the statutory standards of the FDCA, and the FDA’s implementing regulations and standards. The FDA’s review of marketing and promotional activities encompasses, but is not limited to, direct-to-consumer advertising, healthcare provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional activities involving the Internet. The FDA may also review industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations also can result in adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the U.S. Congress or other legislators.

Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. The FDA regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products prior to providing approval to market products. If after receiving approval from the FDA, we make a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA conducts regular, periodic visits to re-inspect our equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial approval. If the FDA determines that we no longer comply with applicable regulations and conditions of approval, they may seek civil, criminal or administrative sanctions and/or remedies against us, including suspension of our manufacturing operations. Such issues may also delay the approval of new products undergoing FDA review.

Regulation of Combination Products. Combination products are defined by the FDA to include products comprised of two or more regulated components (e.g., a biologic and a device). Biologics and devices each have their own regulatory requirements, and combination products may have additional requirements. A number of our marketed products meet this definition and are regulated under this framework, and we expect that a number of our pipeline product candidates will be evaluated for regulatory approval under this framework as well.

Regulation Outside the United States

In the EU countries, Switzerland, Canada and Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar in principle to those in the United States. Additionally, depending on the type of drug for which approval is sought, there are currently two potential tracks for marketing approval in the EU, including a centralized procedure. In the centralized procedure, which is required of all products derived from biotechnology, a company submits a single marketing authorization application to the European Medicines Agency (EMA), which conducts a thorough product evaluation, drawing from its scientific resources across Europe. If the drug product is proven to fulfill the requirements for quality, safety and efficacy, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopts a positive opinion, which is transmitted to the European Commission (EC) for final approval of the marketing authorization and commercialization following country-by-country reimbursement approval. While the EC generally follows the CHMP's opinion, it is not bound to do so.










In the EU, biosimilars have been approved under a specialized pathway of the centralized procedure. The pathway allows sponsors of a biosimilar to seek and obtain regulatory approval based in part on the clinical trial data of an originator product to which the biosimilar has been demonstrated to be “similar.” In many cases, this allows biosimilars to be brought to market without conducting the full suite of clinical trials typically required of originators.

After marketing authorization is obtained, we and various other parties share pharmacovigilance responsibilities regarding the detection, assessment and prevention of adverse effects and other medicine-related problems. Regulatory authorities can demand that safety data or warnings be included on product labels and be provided to healthcare professionals, or recommend the temporary suspension or complete withdrawal of a product from the market.

Other countries such as Russia, Turkey and those in Latin America and the Middle East have a less comprehensive review process in terms of data requirements and for the most part rely on prior marketing approval from a foreign regulatory authority in the United States or EU. The regulatory process in these countries is often less well defined than in the United States and frequently includes manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product upon importation and other domestic requirements.

Other Regulation

We are also subject to various laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. False claims laws prohibit knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).

On December 19, 2012, Amgen announced that it had finalized a settlement agreement with the U.S. government and various other parties regarding allegations that Amgen's promotional, contracting, sales and marketing activities and arrangements caused the submission of various false claims under the Federal Civil False Claims Act and various State False Claims Acts. In connection with entering into the settlement agreement, Amgen also entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that requires Amgen to maintain its corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that in the future our practices might be further challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws.

We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other current and potential future federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations. Our R&D activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials and various radioactive compounds. We believe our procedures comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental contamination cannot be completely eliminated. While we are not required to do so, we strive to conduct our research and manufacturing activities in a manner that meets the intents and purposes of the National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research.

Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations.

Our business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and/or regulations.












Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates

We focus our R&D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of grievous illness in the areas of oncology, hematology, inflammation, bone health, nephrology, cardiovascular and general medicine, which includes neuroscience. We take a modality-independent approach to R&D with a focus on biologics. Our discovery research programs may therefore yield targets that lead to the development of human therapeutics delivered as large molecules, small molecules, or other combination or new modalities. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, our R&D expenses were $4.1 billion, $3.4 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively.

We have major R&D centers in several locations throughout the United States and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller research centers and development facilities globally. See Item 2. Properties.

We conduct clinical trial activities using both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial service providers. To increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we have opened clinical sites and will continue to open clinical sites and to enroll patients in a number of geographic locations. See Government Regulation — Clinical Development and Product Approval for a discussion of government regulation over clinical development. Also see Item 1A. Risk Factors — We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications.

Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R&D in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. For example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, which may limit the number of available patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product candidates is significantly dependent on the timing of entry into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance, thereby contributing to the product’s eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market will be important to our competitive position.

In addition to product candidates and marketed products generated from our internal R&D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D arrangements with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. In pursuing these R&D arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities, we face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed products from those entities performing the R&D.

The following table is a selection of certain of our product candidates by phase of development in our therapeutic areas of focus as of February 17, 2014, unless otherwise indicated. Additional product candidate information can be found on our website at http://www.amgen.com. The website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing. The information in this section does not include other, non-registrational clinical trials that we may conduct for purposes other than for submission to regulatory agencies for their approval of a new product indication. We may conduct non-registrational clinical trials for various reasons including to evaluate real-world outcomes or to collect additional safety information with the use of our products. In addition, the table does not include the biosimilar products we are developing, which are discussed later in this section.
















MoleculeDisease/Condition

Phase 3 Programs

Aranesp®Myelodysplastic syndromes

BlinatumomabAcute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)

BrodalumabPsoriasis

Evolocumab (AMG 145)Dyslipidemia

Kyprolis®*Multiple myeloma

Prolia®Male osteoporosis (EU only);Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis

RilotumumabGastric cancer

RomosozumabPostmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO)

Sensipar®/ Mimpara®Post renal transplant

Talimogene laherparepvecMelanoma

TrebananibOvarian cancer

Vectibix®Metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) (US only)

Velcalcetide (AMG 416)Secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD receiving dialysis

XGEVA®Delay or prevention of bone metastases in breast cancer;Cancer-related bone damage in patients with multiple myeloma

Phase 2 Programs

AMG 139Inflammatory diseases

AMG 181Inflammatory bowel diseases

AMG 334Migraine

BlinatumomabNon-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma (NHL)

BrodalumabInflammatory diseases

Kyprolis®*Small-cell lung cancer

Omecamtiv mecarbilHeart failure

Oprozomib*Hematologic malignancies

XGEVA®First-line metastatic non-small cell lung cancer;Hypercalcemia of malignancy

Phase 1 Programs

AMG 110Various cancer types

AMG 157Asthma

AMG 172Various cancer types

AMG 208Various cancer types

AMG 232Various cancer types

AMG 282Asthma

AMG 319Hematologic malignancies

AMG 333Migraine

AMG 337Various cancer types

AMG 357Autoimmune diseases

AMG 557Systemic lupus erythematosus

AMG 581Schizophrenia

AMG 595Glioblastoma

AMG 729Autoimmune diseases

AMG 780Various cancer types

AMG 811Systemic lupus erythematosus

AMG 820Various cancer types

AMG 876Type 2 diabetes

AMG 900Various cancer types

Oprozomib*Solid tumors

*Being developed by Onyx, an Amgen subsidiary












Phase 3clinical trials investigate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.Phase 2clinical trials investigate side effect profiles and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.Phase 1clinical trials investigate safety and proper dose ranges of a product candidate in a small number of human subjects.



Phase 3 Product Candidate Program Changes

As of February 11, 2013, we had 14 phase 3 programs. As of February 17, 2014, we had 16 phase 3 programs, as two programs had advanced into phase 3 trials, one program concluded and one program was added as a result of our Onyx acquisition. These changes are set forth in the following table:

MoleculeDisease / ConditionProgram ChangeBlinatumomabALLAdvanced to phase 3Velcalcetide (AMG 416)Secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD receiving dialysisAdvanced to phase 3XGEVA®Delay or prevention of bone metastases in prostate cancer (EU only)Concluded - No longer pursing our marketing application with the EMAKyprolis®Multiple myelomaAdded through acquisition of Onyx

Phase 3 Product Candidate Patent Information

The following table describes our outstanding composition of matter patents that have issued thus far for our product candidates in phase 3 development that have yet to be approved for any indication. Patents for products already approved for one or more indications but currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials for additional indications are previously described. See Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products — Patents.

MoleculeTerritoryGeneral Subject MatterEstimated Expiration*BlinatumomabU.S.Polypeptides2019EuropePolypeptides2019BrodalumabU.S.Polynucleotides and polypeptides2027Evolocumab (AMG 145)U.S.Polypeptides2029RilotumumabU.S.Polypeptides2028RomosozumabU.S.Polypeptides2026EuropePolypeptides2026Talimogene laherparepvecU.S.Modified HSV-1 compounds and strains2021EuropeModified HSV-1 compounds and strains2021TrebananibU.S.Polynucleotides and polypeptides2025EuropePolynucleotides and polypeptides2022Velcalcetide (AMG 416)U.S.Compound2030

*Patent expiration estimates are based on issued patents which may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors. The patent expiration estimates do not include any term adjustments, extensions or supplemental protection certificates that may be obtained in the future and extend these dates. Corresponding patent applications are pending in other jurisdictions. Additional patents may be filed or issued and may provide additional exclusivity for the product candidate or its use.

Phase 3 and 2 Program Descriptions

The following text provides additional information about selected product candidates that have advanced into human clinical trials.

Aranesp®

Aranesp®is a recombinant human protein agonist of the erythropoietin receptor.

The phase 3 study of Aranesp®for the treatment of low risk myelodysplastic syndromes is ongoing.














Blinatumomab

Blinatumomab is an anti-CD19 x anti-CD3 (BiTE®) bispecific antibody. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

A phase 3 study in adult patients with relapsed/refractory of ALL is ongoing. Phase 2 studies in adult patients with relapsed/refractory and minimal residual disease of ALL and a phase 2 study in adult patients with NHL are ongoing.

Brodalumab

Brodalumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the interleukin-17 receptor. It is being investigated as a treatment for a variety of inflammatory diseases. Brodalumab is being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca Plc. (AstraZeneca).

In 2013, phase 3 studies evaluating brodalumab for the treatment of psoriasis completed enrollment and are ongoing. We completed our phase 2 study in psoriatic arthritis in 2012. A phase 2 study for the treatment of asthma is ongoing.

Denosumab

Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody that specifically targets a ligand known as RANKL (that binds to a receptor known as RANK) which is a key mediator of osteoclast formation, function, and survival. It is being investigated across a range of conditions including osteoporosis, treatment-induced bone loss and numerous tumor types across the spectrum of cancer-related bone diseases, including hypercalcemia of malignancy.

Prolia®

In August 2013, we submitted a marketing application to the EMA for Prolia®for the treatment of osteoporosis in men at increased risk of fracture.

A phase 3 study of Prolia®for the treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis is ongoing.

XGEVA®

In 2013, XGEVA®was approved by the FDA for the treatment of giant cell tumor of bone in the United States.

Phase 3 studies for the delay or prevention of bone metastases in patients with adjuvant breast cancer and prevention of SRE in patients with multiple myeloma are ongoing. A phase 2 study for hypercalcemia of malignancy was completed in 2013. A phase 2 study in non-small cell lung cancer is ongoing.

We decided not to pursue our marketing application to the EMA for XGEVA®to treat men with castration-resistant prostate cancer at high risk of developing bone metastases.

Evolocumab

Evolocumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 (PCSK9). It is being investigated as a treatment for dyslipidemia.

In December 2013 and January 2014, we announced results from five phase 3 lipid lowering clinical studies evaluating evolocumab as a monotherapy, in combination with statin therapy, in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, in statin-intolerant subjects, and in combination with optimized lipid lowering therapy in a 52 week safety and efficacy study. All five of these studies met their primary endpoints.

In a separate phase 3 study of our devices for use in combination with evolocumab, 95 percent or greater of the 164 patients enrolled were able to self-administer at least one full home administration of evolocumab 420 mg subcutaneously by one injection with an automated mini-doser or by three injections with a standard spring-based autoinjector. Reductions in LDL-C were comparable with both devices.

Additional phase 3 studies to evaluate evolocumab for cardiovascular outcomes, in homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, in statin-intolerant subjects, and with intravascular ultrasound are ongoing. Discussions are ongoing regarding timing for filing with various regulatory authorities for evolocumab. In the United States, for example, the timing for filing will depend on our having achieved appropriate progress in our ongoing outcomes study.

Rilotumumab

Rilotumumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

A phase 3 study for the treatment of gastric cancer is ongoing.












Romosozumab

Romosozumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of sclerostin. Romosozumab is being developed in collaboration with UCB for PMO.

Phase 3 studies for the treatment of PMO in women are ongoing. In January 2014, we announced that we completed enrollment in the phase 3 placebo-controlled registrational study in women with PMO.

Sensipar®/Mimpara®

Sensipar®/Mimpara®is an orally-administered small molecule that lowers PTH levels in blood by increasing sensitivity of the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) to extracellular calcium. It is being evaluated in post renal transplant patients.

Talimogene laherparepvec

Talimogene laherparepvec is an oncolytic immunotherapy derived from HSV-1. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In March 2013, we announced results of the primary endpoint of DRR from a phase 3 study evaluating talimogene laherparepvec in metastatic melanoma. The primary analysis of OS, a key secondary endpoint of this study, is event driven and has not yet occurred. This phase 3 study is ongoing.

Trebananib

Trebananib is a peptibody that inhibits the interaction between the endothelial cell-selective Tie2 receptor and its ligands Ang1 and Ang2. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In June 2013, we announced results of the primary analysis of PFS from a phase 3 study evaluating trebananib plus paclitaxel versus placebo plus paclitaxel in recurrent ovarian cancer patients. The study in recurrent ovarian cancer and another phase 3 study evaluating trebananib in first-line setting of ovarian cancer are ongoing.

We discontinued enrollment in our phase 3 study of trebananib in combination with DOXIL®(doxorubicin HCl liposome injection) in the setting of recurrent ovarian carcinoma due to ongoing DOXIL®supply issues.

Vectibix®

Vectibix®is a human monoclonal antibody antagonist of the EGFr pathway. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In 2013, we resubmitted our applications to the FDA for Vectibix®for first-line in KRAS WT metastatic colorectal cancer and conversion from accelerated approval to full approval for third-line in KRAS WT metastatic colorectal cancer monotherapy.

Velcalcetide

Velcalcetide is a peptide agonist of the human cell surface CaSR. It is being investigated as a treatment for secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD receiving dialysis, with phase 3 studies ongoing.

AMG 139

AMG 139 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of IL-23. It is being investigated as a treatment for Crohn’s disease, with a phase 2 study ongoing. AMG 139 is being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca.

AMG 181

AMG 181 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of alpha4/beta7. It is being investigated as a treatment for ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, with phase 2 studies ongoing. AMG 181 is being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca.

AMG 334

AMG 334 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the receptor for Calcitonin Gene-Related Peptide. It is being investigated for the prevention of migraine, with a phase 2 study ongoing.

Omecamtiv mecarbil

Omecamtiv mecarbil is a small molecule activator of cardiac myosin. It is being investigated for the treatment of heart failure. We are developing this product in collaboration with Cytokinetics, Inc.












In September 2013, we announced results of a phase 2 study of an intravenous formulation of omecamtiv mecarbil in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction who were hospitalized with acute heart failure. A phase 2 dose escalation study to select and evaluate an oral modified release formulation of omecamtiv mecarbil in subjects with heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction is ongoing.

Onyx Pharmaceuticals

Kyprolis®

Kyprolis®is a novel proteasome inhibitor. It is being investigated as a treatment for patients with multiple myeloma and small-cell lung cancer.

Phase 3 studies in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone compared to lenalidomide and dexamethasone in relapsed multiple myeloma; as monotherapy compared to best supportive care in relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma; in combination with dexamethasone compared to bortezomib in combination with dexamethasone in relapsed multiple myeloma; and in combination with melphalan and prednisone compared to bortezomib, melphalan and prednisone in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma are ongoing.

Oprozomib

Oprozomib is an oral proteasome inhibitor. It is being investigated for the treatment of hematologic malignancies including multiple myeloma, with phase 1b/2 studies ongoing.

Amgen Development of Biosimilars

As previously announced, we are collaborating with Actavis, Inc. to develop and commercialize, on a worldwide basis, four oncology antibody biosimilar medicines. The products our collaboration is pursuing include biosimilar versions of bevacizumab (Avastin®), trastuzumab (Herceptin®), rituximab (Rituxan®/Mabthera®) and cetuximab (Erbitux®).

We are also working to develop biosimilar versions of adalimumab (HUMIRA®) and infliximab (REMICADE®).

Our biosimilar product candidates are in varying stages of regulatory development. We expect that any revenue contribution from these biosimilar programs, if successful, would not occur for a number of years. We have biosimilar product candidates of bevacizumab, adalimumab and trastuzumab, that have pivotal studies ongoing, each of which commenced in 2013.



Business Relationships

From time to time, we enter into business relationships, including joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for the R&D, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and/or product candidates. In addition, we also acquire product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D collaborations with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These arrangements generally provide for non-refundable, upfront license fees; development and commercial performance milestone payments; cost sharing; royalty payments and/or profit sharing. The activities under these collaboration agreements are performed with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success, and each is unique in nature.

Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require counterparties to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of the business relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or unlawfully obtain access to our information.

Kirin-Amgen, Inc.

Kirin-Amgen, Inc. (K-A) is a 50-50 joint venture with Kirin Holdings Company, Limited (Kirin). K-A develops and then out-licenses to third parties certain product rights which have been transferred to this joint venture from Amgen and Kirin.

K-A has given us exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and pegfilgrastim in the United States, Europe, Canada and Australia; (ii) darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and brodalumab in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East; and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in the United States. We currently market pegfilgrastim, G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim under the brand names Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®/GRANULOKINE®, Aranesp®, EPOGEN®and Nplate®, respectively.  Under these agreements, we pay K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, we also receive payments from K-A for milestones earned and for conducting certain R&D activities on its behalf. See Note 7, Related party transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.










K-A has also given Kirin exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and pegfilgrastim in Japan, Taiwan and South Korea; (ii) darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and brodalumab in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea and in certain other countries and/or regions in Asia; and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in Japan. K-A also gave Kirin and Amgen co-exclusive licenses to manufacture and market G-CSF, pegfilgrastim and recombinant human erythropoietin in China, which Amgen subsequently assigned to Kirin, and as a result, Kirin now exclusively manufactures and markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in China. Kirin markets G-CSF, pegfilgrastim, darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and recombinant human erythropoietin under the brand names GRAN®/Grasin®, Neulasta®, NESP®, ROMIPLATE®and ESPO®, respectively. Under these agreements, Kirin pays K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, Kirin also receives payments from K-A for conducting certain R&D activities on its behalf.

K-A has also given J&J exclusive licenses to manufacture and market recombinant human erythropoietin for all geographic areas of the world outside the United States, China and Japan. Under this agreement, J&J pays royalties to K-A based on product sales. K-A gave Roche exclusive licenses to market filgrastim and pegfilgrastim in all territories not licensed to Amgen and Kirin. In October 2013, we entered into an agreement to acquire Roche’s licenses to market filgrastim and pegfilgrastim effective January 1, 2014.

Pfizer Inc.

The co-promotion term of our ENBREL collaboration agreement with Pfizer in the United States and Canada expired on October 31, 2013. We now have full ownership of ENBREL promotional rights in the United States and Canada while the rights to market ENBREL outside the United States and Canada are reserved to Pfizer. Under the collaboration agreement, Amgen and Pfizer shared in the agreed-upon selling and marketing expenses approved by a joint committee. We paid Pfizer a percentage of annual gross profits on our ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada on a scale that increased with gross profits; however, we maintained a majority share of ENBREL profits. Upon expiration of the co-promotion term, we are now required to pay Pfizer residual royalties based on a declining percentage of annual net ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada for three years, ranging from 12% to 10%. The amounts of such payments are anticipated to be significantly less than what would be owed based on the terms of the previous ENBREL profit share.Effective November 1, 2016, there will be no further royalty payments.

Glaxo Group Limited

We are in a collaboration with Glaxo Group Limited (Glaxo), a wholly owned subsidiary of GSK, for the commercialization of denosumab for osteoporosis indications in Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico (the Primary Territories). We have retained the rights to commercialize denosumab for all indications in the United States and Canada and for oncology indications in the Primary Territories. Under a related agreement, Glaxo will commercialize denosumab for all indications in countries, excluding Japan, where we did not have a commercial presence at the commencement of the agreement, including China, Brazil, India, Taiwan and South Korea (the Expansion Territories). In the Expansion Territories, Glaxo is responsible for all development and commercialization costs and will purchase denosumab from us to meet demand. We have the option of expanding our role in the commercialization of denosumab in the Primary Territories and certain of the Expansion Territories. In the Primary Territories, we share equally in the commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting for expenses, including an amount payable to us in recognition of our discovery and development of denosumab. Glaxo is also responsible for bearing a portion of the cost of certain specified development activities in the Primary Territories.

The collaboration agreement with Glaxo for the Primary Territories will expire in 2022 and the related agreement for the Expansion Territories will expire in 2024, unless either agreement is terminated earlier in accordance with its terms.

Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc.

As a result of our acquisition of Onyx, we are now party to a collaboration with Bayer to jointly develop and commercialize Nexavar®worldwide, except in Japan. The rights to develop and market Nexavar®in Japan are reserved to Bayer. Under the agreements, we are currently funding 50% of mutually agreed R&D costs. In the United States we co-promote Nexavar®with Bayer and share equally in the profits or losses of Nexavar®. Outside of the United States, excluding Japan, Bayer manages all commercialization activities and incurs all of the sales and marketing expenditures, and we reimburse Bayer for half of those expenditures. In all countries outside of the United States, except Japan, we receive 50% of net profits on sales of Nexavar®after deducting certain Bayer-related costs.

In addition, as part of the acquisition we acquired the right to receive a 20% royalty on Stivarga®global net sales from Bayer. Bayer is responsible, at its sole cost and expense, for the development and commercialization of Stivarga®worldwide.










AstraZeneca Plc.

We are in a collaboration with AstraZeneca to jointly develop and commercialize certain monoclonal antibodies from Amgen's clinical inflammation portfolio, including brodalumab, AMG 139, AMG 157, AMG 181 and AMG 557. The agreement covers the worldwide development and commercialization of these antibodies, except for certain Asian countries for brodalumab and Japan for AMG 557, which are licensed to other third parties.

Under the terms of the agreement, approximately 65% of related development costs for the 2012-2014 periods will be funded by AstraZeneca; thereafter, the companies will share costs equally. If approved for sale, Amgen would receive a low-single-digit royalty rate for brodalumab and a mid-single-digit royalty rate for the rest of the portfolio, after which the worldwide commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration products would be shared equally.

UCB

We are in a collaboration with UCB for the development and commercialization of romosozumab. We have the rights to commercialize romosozumab for all indications in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Japan. UCB has the rights for all EU members at the time of first regulatory approval, Australia and New Zealand. Prior to commercialization, countries that have not been initially designated will be designated to Amgen or UCB in accordance with the terms of the agreement.

Generally, development costs are shared equally and we will share equally in the worldwide commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting for expenses.

DaVita Inc.

We are in a seven-year supply agreement with DaVita that commenced January 1, 2012. Pursuant to this agreement, we will supply EPOGEN®in amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of DaVita's and its affiliates' requirements for ESAs used in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico. The agreement may be terminated by either party before expiration of its term in the event of certain breaches of the agreement by the other party.



Human Resources

As of December 31, 2013, Amgen had approximately20,000staff members. We consider our staff relations to be good.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company as of February 7, 2014 are set forth below. Mr. Jonathan M. Peacock ceased his service as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on January 10, 2014.

Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 51, has served as a director of the Company since October 2011 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 1, 2013. Mr. Bradway has been the Company’s President since May 2010 and Chief Executive Officer since May 2012. From May 2010 to May 2012, Mr. Bradway served as the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Bradway joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations Strategy and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2007 to May 2010. Prior to joining the Company, he was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in London where he had responsibility for the firm’s banking department and corporate finance activities in Europe and focused on healthcare.

Mr. Madhavan (“Madhu”) Balachandran, age 63, became Executive Vice President, Operations in August 2012. Mr. Balachandran joined the Company in 1997 and has held leadership positions in engineering, information systems and operations.  From October 2007 to August 2012, Mr. Balachandran was Senior Vice President, Manufacturing. From February 2007 to October 2007, Mr. Balachandran was Vice President, Site Operations. From May 2002 to February 2007, Mr. Balachandran was Vice President, Puerto Rico Operations. Prior to 2002, Mr. Balachandran served as Associate Director Capital Projects before his promotion to Director Engineering and then to Vice President, Information Management. Previously, Mr. Balachandran served as Vice President, Engineering at Burroughs Wellcome & Company.

Dr. Sean E. Harper, age 51, became Executive Vice President, Research and Development in February 2012. Dr. Harper joined the Company in 2002, and has held leadership roles in early development, medical sciences and global regulatory and safety. Dr. Harper served as Senior Vice President, Global Development and Corporate Chief Medical Officer from March 2007 to February 2012. Prior to joining the Company, Dr. Harper worked for five years at Merck Research Laboratories.

Mr. Anthony C. Hooper, age 59, became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations in October 2011. From March 2010 to October 2011, Mr. Hooper was Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations and President, U.S., Japan and Intercontinental of BMS. From January 2009 to March 2010, Mr. Hooper was President, Americas of BMS. From January 2004 to January 2009, Mr. Hooper was President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals Group, a division of BMS. Prior to this, Mr. Hooper held various senior leadership positions at BMS. In his roles at BMS, Mr. Hooper led commercial operations










in mature and emerging markets. Prior to joining BMS, Mr. Hooper was Assistant Vice President of Global Marketing for Wyeth Laboratories.

Mr. Michael A. Kelly, age 57, became Acting Chief Financial Officer in January 2014. Before assuming this role, Mr. Kelly held a number of roles at the Company. From October 2013 to January 2014, Mr. Kelly served as Vice President, Commercial Operations. Mr. Kelly has also served as Vice President, Finance, Amgen-Astellas Joint Venture Lead from January 2013 to October 2013, and as Vice President, Finance & Chief Financial Officer International Commercial Operations from September 2010 to January 2013. Mr. Kelly served as Acting Chief Financial Officer from May 2010 to September 2010, as Vice President, Corporate Planning & Control from May 2007 to May 2010 and as Chief Accounting Officer from August 2005 to September 2010. From 2003 to August 2005, Mr. Kelly served as Vice President, Finance for Process Development, Operations and Quality. Prior to joining the Company in 2003, Mr. Kelly was Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer at Tanox, Inc., served as corporate controller at Biogen, Inc. and held positions of increasing responsibility in finance at Monsanto Life Sciences Company, including Chief Financial Officer of its NutraSweet Company subsidiary.

Mr. Brian McNamee, age 57, became Executive Vice President, Full Potential Initiatives in October 2013. Mr. McNamee joined the Company in June 2001 as Senior Vice President, Human Resources. From November 1999 to June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division of General Electric Company. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resources positions at General Electric.

Ms. Cynthia M. Patton, age 52, became Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer in October 2012. Ms. Patton joined the Company in 2005. From July 2005 to September 2010, Ms. Patton was Associate General Counsel. From September 2010 to October 2012, Ms. Patton was Vice President, Law. Previously, Ms. Patton served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of SCAN Health Plan from 1999 to 2005.

Mr. David J. Scott, age 61, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2004. From May 1999 to February 2004, Mr. Scott served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Medtronic, Inc. and also as Secretary from January 2000. From December 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Scott served as General Counsel of London-based United Distillers & Vintners. Mr. Scott also served in executive roles at Grand Metropolitan plc and RJR Nabisco, Inc., and was an attorney in private practice.

Dr. Stuart A. Tross, age 47, became Senior Vice President, Human Resources in October 2013. Dr. Tross joined the Company in April 2006 as Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining Amgen, from November 1998 to April 2006, Dr. Tross served in a series of roles for BMS, with his last position being Vice President and Global Head of Human Resources of Mead Johnson Nutrition. Prior to joining BMS, Dr. Tross was a management consultant for Towers Perrin.



Geographic Area Financial Information

For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Note 19, Segment information — Geographic information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Investor Information

Financial and other information about us is available on our website at http://www.amgen.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or submitting such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, we have previously filed registration statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, or at the SEC’s internet address at http://www.sec.gov. These website addresses are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing. Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330 (800-732-0330).












