Item 1.BUSINESS

Overview

Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as “Amgen,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is the world’s largest independent biotechnology
medicines company. We discover, develop, manufacture and market medicines for grievous illnesses. We focus solely on human therapeutics and concentrate on innovating novel medicines based on advances in cellular and molecular biology. Our mission is
to serve patients.

We were incorporated in 1980 and organized as a Delaware corporation in 1987. Our public
website is www.amgen.com. On our website, investors can find press releases, financial filings and other information about the Company. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) website, www.sec.gov, also offers access to reports and
documents we have electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These website addresses are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this
filing.

As of December 31, 2011, we had 17,800 staff members worldwide. Approximately 6,500 of our staff
members work in our research and development (R&D) function, approximately 4,900 work in manufacturing, approximately 4,400 work in our commercial operations and the rest are in general and administrative functions.

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United States, Europe and Canada. We have also entered into agreements with third parties to assist in the commercialization and marketing of
certain of our products in specified geographic areas. (SeeBusiness Relationships.) Together with our partners, we market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and
pharmacies. Most patients receiving our principal products for approved indications are covered by either government or private payer healthcare programs, which influence demand. The reimbursement environment continues to evolve with greater
emphasis on both cost containment and demonstration of the economic value of products.

In addition to our
marketed products, we have various product candidates in mid- to late-stage development in a variety of therapeutic areas, including oncology, hematology, inflammation, bone health, nephrology, cardiovascular and general medicine, which includes
neuroscience. Our R&D organization has expertise in multiple treatment modalities, including large molecules (such as proteins, antibodies and peptibodies) and small molecules.

Our manufacturing operations consist of bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish and distribution activities for
all of our principal products as well as most of our product candidates. We operate a number of commercial and/or clinical manufacturing facilities, and our primary facilities are located in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Netherlands. (See
Item 2. Properties.)







Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and risky, and
failure rates are high. Product development cycles are very long — approximately 10 to 15 years from discovery to market. A potential new medicine must undergo many years of preclinical and clinical testing to establish its safety and
efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels and with an acceptable benefit-risk profile. Biological products, which are produced in living systems, are inherently complex due to naturally occurring molecular variations. Highly
specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory-scale processes into reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. Upon approval, marketed products in our industry generally face
substantial competition.

Our industry is highly regulated, and various U.S. and foreign regulatory bodies have
substantial authority over how we conduct our business. Government authorities in the United States and other countries regulate the manufacturing and marketing of our products as well as our ongoing R&D activities. In recent years, regulators
have placed a greater scrutiny on drug safety. This has led to, and may in the future lead to: fewer products being approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or other regulatory bodies; delays in receiving approvals; additional
safety-related requirements; restrictions on the use of products, including expanded safety labeling, or required risk management activities.

Significant Developments

Following is a summary of significant developments that occurred in 2011 and early 2012 affecting our business. A more detailed discussion of each development follows in the appropriate section.

ESAs



•The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ (CMS) Final Rule on Bundling in Dialysis became effective on January 1, 2011, and
provides a single payment for all dialysis services, including drugs that were previously reimbursed separately.



•On June 24, 2011, we announced that the FDA approved changes to the labels for the use of ESAs, including Aranesp®and EPOGEN®, in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) (June 2011 ESA label changes).



•CMS finalized a rule to update various provisions of its bundled payment system for dialysis services and the related end stage renal disease (ESRD)
Quality Incentive Program (QIP). The final rule eliminated for payment year 2013 and beyond the QIP’s measure that tracks the percent of a provider’s Medicare patients with a hemoglobin (Hb) level below 10 grams per deciliter (g/dL).



•We entered into a seven-year supply agreement with DaVita Inc. (DaVita), commencing January 1, 2012, to supply EPOGEN®in amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of DaVita’s and its affiliates’ requirements for ESAs used
in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico.

XGEVA®



•On July 15, 2011, we announced that the European Commission (EC) granted marketing authorization for XGEVA®for the prevention of skeletal-related events (SREs) in adults with bone metastases from solid tumors.

Vectibix®



•On November 10, 2011, the EC approved a variation to the marketing authorization for the use of Vectibix®in first- and second-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) in patients whose tumors contain
wild-typeKRASgenes.



•We announced on July 29, 2011, that we received Complete Response Letters from the FDA on the first- and second-line mCRC supplemental
Biologics License Applications (sBLA) for Vectibix®that we filed in late 2010. We are currently working to
address their requests.









Motesanib



•We along with our partner Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited (Takeda) announced that the motesanib pivotal phase 3 trial (MONET1) did not meet
its primary objective of demonstrating an improvement in overall survival in patients with advanced non-squamous non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

Business combinations



•On March 4, 2011, we acquired BioVex Group, Inc. (BioVex), a privately held biotechnology company developing treatments for cancers and for the
prevention of infectious disease, including talimogene laherparepvec (formerly referred to as OncoVEXGM-CSF), a novel oncolytic vaccine in phase 3 clinical development for the treatment of malignant melanoma.

•On April 7, 2011, we acquired Laboratório Químico Farmacêutico Bérgamo Ltda (Bergamo), a privately held Brazilian
pharmaceutical company that is a leading supplier of medicines to the hospital sector in Brazil with capabilities in oncology medicines.

•On January 26, 2012, we announced that we entered into an agreement to acquire Micromet, Inc. (Micromet), a publicly held biotechnology company
focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative antibody-based therapies for the treatment of cancer. The acquisition, which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to close in the first quarter of 2012.

Return of capital to shareholders



•In the third quarter of 2011, we began paying quarterly cash dividends of $0.28 per share of common stock, aggregating $500 million paid in 2011. In
December 2011, we increased our quarterly declared dividend by 29% to $0.36 per share of common stock, payable in March 2012.

•During 2011, we repurchased approximately 15% of our stock outstanding as of December 31, 2010, for a total cost of $8.3 billion.

Proposed legal settlement



•We recorded a $780 million charge (the legal settlement charge) in connection with an agreement in principle to settle allegations relating to our
sales and marketing practices.

Marketed Products

We market our principal products, Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®, ENBREL, Aranesp®and EPOGEN®, in supportive cancer care, inflammation and nephrology. Certain of our marketed products face, and our product candidates, if approved, are also expected to face,
substantial competition, including from products marketed by large pharmaceutical corporations, which may have greater clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, financial and human resources than we do. Our products’ competitive
position among other biological and pharmaceutical products may be based on, among other things, safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, patient convenience/delivery devices, price, reimbursement and patent position and expirations.

Over the next several years, many of the existing patents on our principal products will expire, and we expect to face
increasing competition thereafter, including from biosimilar products. A “biosimilar” product is a follow-on version of another biological product for which marketing approval is sought or has been obtained based on a demonstration that it
is “biosimilar” to the original reference product. This demonstration will typically consist of comparative analytical, preclinical and clinical data from the biosimilar product to show that it has similar safety and efficacy as the
reference product. The 2010 U.S. healthcare reform legislation authorized the FDA to approve biosimilar products under a new, abbreviated pathway. On February 9, 2012, the FDA released three draft guidance documents that provide insight into
the FDA’s current thinking on the development of biosimilar products and broad parameters for the scientific assessment of biosimilar applications. The FDA guidance documents leave room for the FDA to consider, on a case-by-case basis, the
specifics of what evidence would be required for a biosimilar product to gain approval (see Government Regulation). In the European Union







(EU), there is already an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars and we are facing increasing competition from biosimilars. In the United States after patent expiration, we expect to face
greater competition, including from manufacturers with biosimilar products approved in Europe that may seek to quickly obtain U.S. approval. Upon patent expiration for small molecule products, there is typically intense competition from generics
manufacturers, which generally leads to significant and rapid declines in sales of the branded product. Given that our principal products are biologics, we do not believe the impact of biosimilar competition will be as significant as with small
molecule products in part because successful competitors must have a broad range of specialized skills and capabilities unique to biologics, including significant regulatory, clinical and manufacturing expertise, and since the products are similar,
but not identical, the biosimilars will have to compete against a product with an established efficacy and safety record. In some cases we may experience additional competition prior to the expiration of our patents as a result of agreements we have
made in connection with the settlement of patent litigation with companies developing potentially competing products. (See, e.g., the discussions of Neulasta®/NEUPOGEN®and Aranesp®later in this section).

Further, the introduction of new products or the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or new information about existing products may result in increased competition for our marketed
products, even for those protected by patents, or in a reduction of price that we receive from selling our products. In addition, the development of new treatment options or standards of care may reduce the use of our products or may limit the
utility and application of ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates.

Most patients receiving our principal products for approved indications are covered by either government or private payer
healthcare programs, which influence demand. The reimbursement environment continues to evolve with greater emphasis on both cost containment and demonstration of the economic value of products. In addition, the current worldwide economic conditions
have also contributed to increasing pressures on cost containment.

Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)/NEUPOGEN®(Filgrastim)

We were granted an exclusive license to manufacture and market
Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand under a licensing agreement with Kirin-Amgen, Inc.







(K-A), a joint venture between Kirin Holdings Company, Limited (Kirin) and Amgen (seeBusiness Relationships — Kirin-Amgen, Inc.)(SeeBusinessRelationships—Kirin-Amgen, Inc.)

Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®stimulate
production of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell important in the body’s fight against infection. Treatments for various diseases and diseases themselves can result in extremely low numbers of neutrophils, a condition called neutropenia.
Myelosuppressive chemotherapy, one treatment option for individuals with certain types of cancers, targets cell types that grow rapidly, such as tumor cells. Normal cells that divide rapidly, such as those in the bone marrow that become neutrophils,
are also vulnerable to the cytotoxic effects of myelosuppressive chemotherapy, resulting in neutropenia with an increased risk of severe infection. NEUPOGEN®is our registered trademark for Filgrastim, our recombinant-methionyl human G-CSF. Neulasta®is our registered trademark for pegfilgrastim, a pegylated protein based on the Filgrastim molecule. A polyethylene glycol molecule is added to the Filgrastim
molecule. Because pegfilgrastim is eliminated through binding to its receptor on neutrophils and neutrophil precursor cells, pegfilgrastim remains in the circulation until neutrophil recovery has occurred. This neutrophil-mediated clearance allows
for administration as a single dose per chemotherapy cycle, compared with NEUPOGEN®, which requires more
frequent dosing.

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

Worldwide
Neulasta®/NEUPOGEN®sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $5.2 billion, $4.8 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively. U.S. Neulasta®/NEUPOGEN®sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $4.0 billion, $3.6 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively. International Neulasta®/NEUPOGEN®sales for each of the three years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $1.2 billion.

Our outstanding material patents for pegfilgrastim are described in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Pegylated G-CSF10/20/2015Europe(1)Pegylated G-CSF2/8/2015





(1)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such
extension will vary by country.

Our outstanding material patents for Filgrastim are
described in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.G-CSF polypeptides12/3/2013U.S.Methods of treatment using G-CSF polypeptides12/10/2013









Our principal European patent relating to G-CSF expired
in August 2006. Upon expiration of that patent, some companies received approval to market products, including biosimilars, that compete with NEUPOGEN®and Neulasta®in Europe, as
further discussed below.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
successful in treating neutropenia associated with chemotherapy, for bone marrow and PBPC transplant patients, severe chronic neutropenia and AML could negatively impact Neulasta®and/or NEUPOGEN®sales.
Further, NEUPOGEN®competes with Neulasta®in the United States and Europe, and
NEUPOGEN®sales have been adversely impacted by conversion to Neulasta®. However, we believe the conversion in the United States is substantially complete and that a significant amount of
the conversion in Europe has already occurred.

The following table reflects companies and
their currently marketed products that compete with Neulasta®and/or NEUPOGEN®in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care setting. The table below and the following discussion
of competitor marketed products and products in development may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Leukine®Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals (Bayer)EuropeGranocyte®Chugai Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd./Sanofi-Aventis (Sanofi)EuropeRatiograstim®(1)/Biograstim®(1)ratiopharm GmbH (ratiopharm)(2)/CT Arzneimittel GmbH (CT Arzneimittel)EuropeTevagrastim®(1)Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Teva Pharmaceutical)EuropeZarzio®(1)/Filgrastim Hexal®(1)Sandoz GmbH (Sandoz)/Hexal Biotech Forschungs GmbH (Hexal)EuropeNivestim®(1)Hospira Inc. (Hospira)



(1)Approved via the EU biosimilar regulatory pathway.

(2)A subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical.

Several companies have short-acting filgrastim product candidates in phase 3 clinical development, including:



•Merck & Company, Inc. (Merck) (MK-4214)



•Intas/Apotex Inc. (Neukine)



•Reliance Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd. (Religrast)



•Biocon Ltd./Celgene Corporation (Celgene) (Nufil)

In addition, the following companies have long-acting filgrastim product candidates in phase 3 clinical development:



•Teva Pharmaceutical (Neugranin™ and XM-22)



•Sandoz (Peg G-CSF).

In February 2010, Teva Pharmaceutical announced that the FDA had accepted for review its Biologics License Applications (BLA) seeking U.S. approval to market XM02 (its filgrastim product currently sold
under the brand name Tevagrastim®in several European countries) to stimulate the production of neutrophils
under the brand name Neutroval™. On September 30, 2010, the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter requesting additional information from Teva Pharmaceutical to complete the review of its applications for approval of







Neutroval™. If approved in the United States, this drug would compete with NEUPOGEN®and Neulasta®subject to the
terms of the injunction and settlement agreement discussed below.

On November 30,
2009, Teva Pharmaceutical filed a declaratory judgment action against us alleging that certain of our NEUPOGEN®patents are invalid and not infringed by Neutroval™, and on January 15, 2010, we filed an answer and counterclaims seeking a declaratory judgment that our patents are valid and infringed. On July 15, 2011, we announced that the U.S.
District Court in Pennsylvania entered final judgment and a permanent injunction against Teva Pharmaceutical and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (together defined as Teva) prohibiting them from infringing our patents relating to human G-CSF
polypeptides and methods of treatment. The Court’s injunction extends until November 10, 2013, after which date Teva will no longer be prohibited by the injunction from selling Neutroval™ in the United States, subject to receiving FDA
approval for human therapeutic use. Teva also agreed not to sell Neugranin™ in the United States before November 10, 2013, unless it first obtains a final court decision that our patents are not infringed by Neugranin™. Pursuant to
the parties’ settlement, the launch date for either product could be sooner if certain unexpected events occur: a third party launches a similar G-CSF polypeptide product and we fail to sue that third party, or the patents are held invalid or
unenforceable in a final court decision in an action brought by a third party.

Enbrel®(etanercept)

ENBREL is our registered trademark for etanercept, our TNF receptor fusion protein that inhibits the binding of TNF to its receptors, which can result in a significant reduction in inflammatory activity.
TNF is one of the chemical messengers that help regulate the inflammatory process. When the body produces too much TNF, it overwhelms the immune system’s ability to control inflammation of the joints or of psoriasis-affected skin areas. ENBREL
binds certain TNF molecules before they can trigger inflammation.

We acquired the rights to ENBREL in July
2002 with our acquisition of Immunex Corporation (Immunex). ENBREL was launched in the United States in November 1998 and in Canada in March 2001 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In addition, ENBREL is now indicated for the treatment
of adult patients with the following conditions: moderate to severe active RA; chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis patients who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy; active psoriatic arthritis; and active ankylosing
spondylitis.

We market ENBREL under a collaboration agreement with Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) in the United States
and Canada, which expires in the fourth quarter of 2013. (See Business Relationships — Pfizer Inc.) The rights to market and sell ENBREL outside the United States and Canada are reserved to Pfizer.

ENBREL sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $3.7 billion, $3.5 billion and $3.5 billion,
respectively.

In November 2011, we announced the issuance of U.S. Patent No. 8,063,182 related to ENBREL,
which is owned by F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (Roche) and exclusively licensed to Amgen. This patent, which has a term of 17 years from issuance, is reflected in the following table along with our other outstanding material patents for etanercept.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.TNFR DNA vectors, cells and processes for making proteins10/23/2012U.S.Aqueous Formulation(1)2/27/2023U.S.Fusion protein, and pharmaceutical compositions11/22/2028



(1)This formulation patent relates to the currently approved liquid formulation of ENBREL, which formulation accounts for the majority of ENBREL sales
in the United States. However, ENBREL is also sold as an alternative lyophilized formulation that requires reconstituting before it can be administered to the patient.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating rheumatologic conditions, which
includes moderate to severe RA; moderate to severe polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis; and dermatologic conditions, which includes moderate to severe plaque







psoriasis, could negatively impact ENBREL sales. Certain of the treatments for these indications include generic methotrexate and other products.

The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that compete with ENBREL in the United States
and Canada in the inflammatory disease setting. The table below and the following discussion of competitor marketed products and products in development may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryTherapeutic AreaCompetitorMarketedProductCompetitorU.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologyREMICADE®Janssen Biotech, Inc. (Janssen)(1)/MerckU.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologyHUMIRA®Abbott Laboratories (Abbott)U.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologySimponi®Janssen(1)U.S. & CanadaRheumatologyCimzia®UCB/Nektar Therapeutics (Nektar)U.S. & CanadaRheumatologyOrencia®Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS)U.S. & CanadaRheumatologyRituxan®RocheU.S.RheumatologyActemra®RocheU.S. & CanadaDermatologyStelara®Janssen(1)



(1)A subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson (J&J) formerly known as Centocor Ortho Biotech Products, L.P.

In December 2011, the FDA accepted a new drug application (NDA) from Pfizer for approval of tofacitinib in RA. In
addition, several competitors have product candidates in phase 3 clinical development that may compete with ENBREL in the future:



•Celgene (apremilast), in both psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.



•AstraZeneca PLC and Rigel Pharmaceuticals Inc. (fostamatinib) in RA.



•Eli Lilly and Company (Eli Lilly) (LY 2439821) for moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.



•UCB/Nektar’s
Cimzia®in psoriatic arthritis,



•Janssen’s
Simponi®IV in RA and Stelara®in psoriatic arthritis.



•Roche’s
Actemra®SC in RA.

ESAs

Aranesp®and EPOGEN®are our registered trademarks for darbepoetin alfa and epoetin alfa, respectively, both of which are proteins that stimulate red blood cell production in a process
known as erythropoiesis. Red blood cells transport oxygen to all cells of the body. Without adequate amounts of a protein called erythropoietin, the red blood cell count is reduced. A deficient red blood cell count can result in anemia, a condition
in which insufficient oxygen is delivered to the body’s organs and tissues. Anemia can be associated with CKD in patients either on or not on dialysis. Individuals with CKD may suffer from anemia because they do not produce sufficient amounts
of erythropoietin, which is normally produced in healthy kidneys and stimulates erythropoiesis. Anemia can also result from chemotherapy treatments for patients with non-myeloid malignancies.

ESAs, including ours, have faced and continue to face challenges. For example, based on adverse safety results observed
beginning in late 2006 in various studies, performed by us and by others, that explored the use of ESAs in settings different from those outlined in the FDA approved label, the product labeling of our ESAs in the United States and the EU has been
updated several times to reflect those safety concerns. In addition, due in part to certain of these developments, reimbursement of our ESAs in the United States was also revised resulting in changes in the way ESAs are used in clinical practice,
including by decreasing the number of treated patients, average dose and duration of ESA therapy.







Further, the following developments occurred with respect to ESAs in 2011:



•CMS’s Final Rule on Bundling in Dialysis became effective on January 1, 2011, and provides a single payment for all dialysis services,
including drugs that were previously reimbursed separately (except for oral drugs without intravenous equivalents, such as
Sensipar®, which will be included in the bundle beginning in 2014). Substantially all dialysis providers in the
United States opted into the bundled payment system in its entirety on January 1, 2011.



•On June 24, 2011, we announced that the FDA had approved the June 2011 ESA label changes. While the previous label language specified a Hb
target range of 10-12 g/dL for chronic renal failure (CRF) patients on dialysis as well as those not on dialysis, the modified labeling provides separate treatment guidance for these two populations. For patients on dialysis, who constitute the
majority of CKD (or CRF) patients receiving ESA treatment, the new label advises physicians to initiate ESA therapy when the Hb level is less than 10 g/dL and to reduce or interrupt the dose when the Hb approaches or exceeds 11 g/dL. For CKD
patients not on dialysis receiving ESA treatment, the new label advises physicians to initiate ESA therapy when the Hb level is less than 10 g/dL and to reduce or interrupt the dose when the Hb exceeds 10 g/dL. (With the June 2011 label changes, the
FDA changed the term CRF to CKD in the ESA labels. We use CRF when referring to labels prior to June 2011 for historical accuracy.)



•On November 1, 2011, CMS finalized a rule to update various provisions of its bundled payment system for dialysis services and the related ESRD
QIP. The final rule eliminated for payment year 2013 and beyond the QIP’s measure that tracks the percent of a provider’s Medicare patients with a Hb level below 10 g/dL. CMS indicated that removal of this measure from the QIP was being
done in response to the June 2011 ESA label changes.



•On June 16, 2010, CMS opened a National Coverage Analysis (NCA) to examine the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients with CKD and
dialysis-related anemia. Following further analysis, on June 16, 2011, CMS issued a Final Decision Memorandum (FDM) in which it determined that it would not issue a National Coverage Determination (NCD) at that time for ESAs for treatment of
anemia in adults with CKD, and that it would instead monitor the use of ESAs through its bundled payment system and its other policy avenues. In the absence of an NCD, Local Coverage Determinations (LCDs) may be made by 11 regional contractors
called Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs), which CMS contracts with to process Medicare claims. LCDs are binding on providers within their respective jurisdictions. Since CMS issued their FDM, one MAC has issued a final LCD relating to
anemia in patients with CKD not on dialysis, and two more MACs have issued draft LCDs, all of which would restrict reimbursement to use in accordance with the revised label. Nonetheless, physician behavior may change at any time to be consistent
with the label even before formal LCDs are implemented.

Certain of these developments have
had a material adverse impact on sales of our ESAs.

In addition, in November 2011, we
entered into a seven-year supply agreement with DaVita, commencing January 1, 2012, to supply EPOGEN®in
amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of DaVita’s and its affiliates’ requirements for ESAs used in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico. Effective January 1, 2012, we also entered into a three-year
non-exclusive supply agreement to supply EPOGEN®to Fresenius Medical Care North America, a subsidiary of
Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co. KGaA (Fresenius Medical Care), following the 2011 expiration of our five-year ESA supply agreement with them.

We have an ongoing oncology pharmacovigilance program in place for Aranesp®. Of the clinical trials included in the program, five explore the use of ESAs in settings different from those
outlined in the FDA approved label and are designated by the FDA as PMCs. Of the five studies, one was sponsored by Amgen while the other four were investigator-sponsored. Results of certain of those studies contributed to safety-related product
labeling changes for our ESAs and changes in reimbursement, as noted above. Of the five studies, four are complete with final results of the remaining study expected in 2012. In addition, Janssen Research & Development, LLC (JRD), a
subsidiary of J&J, and/or its investigators have conducted numerous studies that contribute to the understanding of ESA safety. Results of the JRD studies were submitted to the FDA.







Additionally, based on discussions with the FDA, we and
JRD have carefully considered potential new study designs to determine the effects of ESAs on survival and tumor outcomes in anemic patients with metastatic cancer receiving concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Based on those discussions, we
are conducting a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 non-inferiority study evaluating overall survival when comparing advanced NSCLC patients on Aranesp®to patients receiving placebo (Study ‘782) as part of our Aranesp®pharmacovigilance program. In addition, JRD’s EPO-ANE-3010 study in breast cancer is ongoing. Both studies are designated by the FDA as PMR clinical trials. For
the nephrology setting, we are in ongoing discussions with the FDA regarding additional PMRs to explore alternative ESA dosing strategies in CKD patients on dialysis and not on dialysis.

Adverse events or results of any of these studies could further affect product labeling, healthcare
provider prescribing behavior, regulatory or private healthcare organization medical guidelines and/or reimbursement practices related to Aranesp®or EPOGEN®.

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)

We were granted an exclusive license by K-A to manufacture and market
Aranesp®in the United States, all European countries, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and
South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East.

We market Aranesp®primarily in the United States and Europe. Aranesp®was launched in 2001 in the United States and Europe for the treatment of anemia associated with CRF (both in patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis) and
is also indicated for the treatment of anemia due to concomitant chemotherapy in patients with non-myeloid malignancies.

Worldwide Aranesp®sales for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, were $2.3 billion, $2.5 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, U.S. Aranesp®sales were $1.0 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and international Aranesp®sales were $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for darbepoetin alfa are described in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins5/15/2024Europe(1)Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins8/16/2014



(1)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such
extension will vary by country.

Our principal European patent relating
to epoetin alfa expired in December 2004. Although we do not market EPOGEN®in Europe, upon expiration of this
patent, some companies received approval to market products, including biosimilars, that compete with Aranesp®in Europe, as further discussed below.

Any products or technologies that are directly or
indirectly successful in addressing anemia associated with chemotherapy and/or renal failure could negatively impact
Aranesp®sales. In the United States, Aranesp®competes with EPOGEN®,
primarily in the U.S. hospital dialysis clinic setting.









The following table reflects companies and their
currently marketed products that compete with Aranesp®in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer
care and nephrology segments, unless otherwise indicated. The table below and the following discussion of competitor marketed products and products in development may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.PROCRIT®(1)Janssen(2)EuropeEPREX®/ERYPO®Janssen-Cilag(2)EuropeNeoRecormon®RocheEuropeRetacrit™(3)/Silapo®(3)Hospira/Stada Arzneimittel AGEuropeBinocrit®(3)/epoetin alfa
Hexal®(3)/Abseamed®(3)Sandoz/Hexal/Medice Arzneimittel Pütter GmbH & Co. KGEuropeMIRCERA®(4)RocheEuropeEporatio®/Biopoin®ratiopharm(5)/CT Arzneimittel



(1)PROCRIT®competes with Aranesp®in the supportive cancer care and pre-dialysis settings.



(2)A subsidiary of J&J.



(3)Approved via the EU biosimilar regulatory pathway.



(4)Competes with
Aranesp®in the nephrology segment only. Pursuant to a December 2009 settlement agreement between Amgen and
Roche, Roche is allowed to begin selling MIRCERA®in the United States in mid-2014 under terms of a limited
license agreement. MIRCERA®has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of anemia associated with CRF.



(5)A subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical.

In addition to competition from these marketed products, Affymax, Inc. (Affymax) and Takeda are co-developing peginesatide, a synthetic, PEGylated peptidic compound that binds to and stimulates the
erythropoietin receptor and thus acts as an ESA, for the treatment of anemia in CRF patients on dialysis and have submitted an NDA to the FDA. On December 7, 2011, Affymax and Takeda announced that the Oncology Drug Advisory Committee (ODAC)
panel voted 15 to 1, with 1 abstention, that peginesatide demonstrated a favorable risk-benefit profile for use in the treatment of dialysis patients with anemia due to CKD. The FDA has targeted a Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) action date
of March 27, 2012.

EPOGEN®(epoetin alfa)

We were granted an exclusive license to manufacture and market
EPOGEN®in the United States under a licensing agreement with K-A. We have retained exclusive rights to market
EPOGEN®in the United States for dialysis patients. We granted Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, a subsidiary of
J&J (which has assigned its rights under the Product License Agreement to Janssen), a license to commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in all indications other than dialysis.

We launched EPOGEN®in the United States in 1989 for the treatment of anemia associated with CRF in patients who are on dialysis. We market EPOGEN®in the United States for the treatment of anemic adult and pediatric patients with CRF who are on dialysis. EPOGEN®is indicated for elevating or maintaining the red blood cell level (as determined by hematocrit or Hb measurements)
and decreasing the need for blood transfusions in these patients.

EPOGEN®sales in the United States for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $2.0 billion, $2.5
billion and $2.6 billion, respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for epoetin alfa are described in the
following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Process of making erythropoietin8/15/2012U.S.Product claims to erythropoietin8/20/2013U.S.Pharmaceutical compositions of erythropoietin8/20/2013U.S.Cells that make certain levels of erythropoietin5/26/2015







Any products or technologies that are directly or
indirectly successful in addressing anemia associated with renal failure could negatively impact EPOGEN®sales.
In the United States, as noted above, EPOGEN®and Aranesp®compete with each other, primarily in the U.S. hospital dialysis clinic setting. In addition, EPOGEN®could face additional competition from those products noted in the Aranesp®section above that may be used in dialysis in the United States.

Other Marketed Products

Our other
marketed products include Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet), Vectibix®(panitumumab), Nplate®(romiplostim), Prolia®(denosumab) and XGEVA®(denosumab).

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)

Sensipar®is our registered trademark in the United States and Mimpara®is our registered trademark in Europe for cinacalcet, our small molecule medicine used in treating CKD patients on dialysis who produce too much parathyroid hormone
(PTH), a condition known as secondary hyperparathyroidism. In 2004, Sensipar®/Mimpara®was approved in the United States and Europe for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD patients on
dialysis and for the treatment of hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma. In 2008, Mimpara®was
approved in Europe for the reduction of hypercalcemia in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) where a parathyroidectomy is not clinically appropriate or is contraindicated. In 2011, Sensipar®was approved in the United States for the treatment of severe hypercalcemia in patients with PHPT who are unable to
undergo parathyroidectomy. We market Sensipar®primarily in the United States and Mimpara®primarily in Europe.

As previously discussed, CMS’s Final Rule on Bundling in Dialysis became effective on
January 1, 2011 and provides a single payment for all dialysis services. Oral drugs without intravenous equivalents, such as Sensipar®and phosphate binders, will continue to be reimbursed separately under the Medicare Part D benefit until 2014 when they will be reimbursed under the bundled payment
system. Inclusion in the bundled payment system may reduce utilization of these oral drugs and have a material adverse impact on Sensipar®sales. (See Reimbursement.)

The phase 3 EValuation Of Cinacalcet HCl Therapy to Lower CardioVascular Events (E.V.O.L.V.E™) trial, initiated in 2006, is a large (3,800 patient), multi-center, international, randomized,
double-blind study to assess the effects of Sensipar®/Mimpara®on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity in patients with CKD undergoing maintenance dialysis. The E.V.O.L.V.E™ study completed enrollment in January 2008 and
we anticipate data from the study in 2012.

Worldwide Sensipar®/Mimpara®sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $808 million, $714 million and $651 million, respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for cinacalcet are described in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Calcium receptor-active molecules including species10/23/2015U.S.Calcium receptor-active molecules3/8/2018U.S.Methods of treatment12/14/2016Europe(1)Calcium receptor-active molecules10/23/2015



(1)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such
extension will vary by country.

Any products or technologies that are
directly or indirectly successful in treating secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD on dialysis and/or hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma could negatively impact
Sensipar®/Mimpara®sales.







The following table reflects companies and their
currently marketed products that compete with Sensipar®in the United States and with Mimpara®in Europe in the nephrology segment for patients with CKD on dialysis. The table below and the following discussion
of competitor marketed products and products in development may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Hectorol®Genzyme Corporation (Genzyme)U.S.Rocaltrol®RocheU.S.Calcijex®AbbottU.S.Calcium Acetate®Roxane Laboratories/SandozU.S. & EuropeZemplar®AbbottU.S. & EuropeRenagel®GenzymeU.S. & EuropeRenvela®GenzymeU.S. & EuropePhosLo®/Rephoren®Fresenius Medical CareU.S. & EuropeOsvaRen®Fresenius Medical CareU.S. & EuropeFosrenol®Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Plc

On July 25, 2008, we filed a lawsuit against Teva and Barr
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Barr) for infringement of four Sensipar®patents. The lawsuit was based on Abbreviated New
Drug Applications filed by Teva and Barr that sought approval to market generic versions of Sensipar®. Following
trial, on January 7, 2011, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware granted an injunction prohibiting Teva and Barr from commercializing generic versions of Sensipar®in the United States until expiration of three of those patents. These generic versions could compete with Sensipar®in the future.

Vectibix®(panitumumab)

®

®

®

®

®

KRAS

®

®

KRAS

KRAS

KRAS

®

KRAS

In 2009, we announced results from the ‘203 and ‘181 pivotal phase 3 trials evaluating Vectibix®in combination with chemotherapy (FOLFOX or FOLFIRI) as a first- and second-line treatment for mCRC, respectively. Both studies demonstrated that Vectibix®administered with chemotherapy significantly improved progression-free survival in patients with wild-typeKRASmCRC. Additionally, both studies showed numeric improvements in median overall survival in the same patient population. The numeric improvements in median overall survival failed to achieve statistical significance. It was previously
agreed with the FDA that the ‘181 study would serve as the confirmatory trial for establishing full approval for the mCRC indication.







On February 8, 2011, we and four other sponsor
companies met with the FDA and the ODAC to discuss the status of our respective PMCs for product indications that had been granted accelerated approval by the FDA prior to 2009, including Vectibix®. At that meeting, we updated the Committee on the completion and submission of the main PMC for Vectibix®and on the confirmatory ’181 study; and we participated in an open discussion with the ODAC on the accelerated approval process.

On July 29, 2011, we announced that we received Complete Response Letters from the FDA on the first- and second-line
mCRC sBLAs that we filed in late 2010. The FDA did not ask for new clinical studies but did request an updated safety analysis and additional analyses of the overall survival data in the ’181 and ’203 studies using more mature data sets.
The FDA has also informed us that approval for the first- and second-line mCRC indications will be contingent upon approval of the companion diagnostic device being developed in collaboration with QIAGEN N.V., which identifies a patient’sKRASgene status. We are currently working on addressing the FDA’s requests in the Complete Response Letters.

On November 10, 2011, the EC approved a variation to the marketing authorization for Vectibix®to include indications for the treatment of patients with wild-typeKRASmCRC in first- and second-line in combination with chemotherapy.

Worldwide Vectibix®sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $322 million, $288 million and $233 million, respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for panitumumab are described in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Human monoclonal antibodies to EGFr4/8/2020U.S.Human monoclonal antibodies to EGFr5/5/2017EuropeFully human antibodies that bind EGFr12/3/2017Europe(1)Human monoclonal antibodies to EGFr5/5/2018





(1)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such
extension will vary by country.

Any products or technologies that are
directly or indirectly successful in treating mCRC after disease progression on, or following fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan- containing chemotherapy regimens could negatively impact Vectibix®sales. The following table reflects the companies that currently market Erbitux®, which competes with Vectibix®in the United States and Europe. The table below and the following discussion of products in development may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Erbitux®Eli Lilly/BMSEuropeErbitux®Merck KGaA

In addition to competition from Erbitux®, the following products in development could compete with
Vectibix®in the future:



•Sanofi filed a BLA with the FDA for approval of ZALTRAP™ for second-line mCRC in early 2012.



•Bayer announced results from its phase 3 trial for regorafenib in patients with mCRC. Bayer is in discussions with health authorities worldwide
regarding next steps in filing for approval.

Nplate®(romiplostim)

In August 2008, the FDA approved Nplate®for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in splenectomized (spleen removed) and non-splenectomized adults with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). Nplate®works by raising and sustaining platelet counts. We were granted an exclusive license by K-A to manufacture and
market Nplate®in the United States, all European countries, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central
and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East. In







February 2009, we announced that the EC had granted marketing authorization for Nplate®for the treatment of splenectomized adult chronic ITP patients who are refractory to other treatments (e.g., corticosteroids, immunoglobulins). In the EU, Nplate®may also be considered as second-line treatment for adult non-splenectomized ITP patients where surgery is
contraindicated.

Worldwide Nplate®sales for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $297 million, $229 million and $110 million, respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for romiplostim are described in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Thrombopoietic compounds1/19/2022U.S.Thrombopoietic compounds10/22/2019Europe(1)Thrombopoietic compounds10/22/2019



(1)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such
extension will vary by country.

Any products or technologies that are
directly or indirectly successful in treating thrombocytopenia in splenectomized and non-splenectomized adults with chronic ITP could negatively impact Nplate®sales. The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that compete with Nplate®in the United States and Europe and may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Promacta®GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK)EuropeRevolade®GSK

Prolia®/XGEVA®(denosumab)

In 2010, we launched Prolia®and XGEVA®, both of which
contain the same active ingredient but which are approved for different indications, patient populations, doses and frequencies of administration. We have a collaboration agreement with Glaxo Group Limited (Glaxo), a wholly owned subsidiary of GSK,
for the commercialization of denosumab in certain countries. (See Business Relationships — Glaxo Group Limited.)

Prolia®

On June 1, 2010, the FDA approved Prolia®for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, or multiple risk factors for
fracture, or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. On September 19, 2011, we announced that the FDA approved two additional indications for Prolia®as a treatment to increase bone mass in women at high risk for fracture receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy for breast cancer and as a treatment to
increase bone mass in men at high risk for fracture receiving androgen deprivation therapy for non-metastatic prostate cancer.

We estimate that the large majority of Prolia®usage to date in the
United States has been under Medicare Part B. Additionally, most potential U.S. Prolia®patients now also have
coverage for Prolia®under Medicare Part D. Future U.S. product sales for Prolia®will depend primarily on postmenopausal osteoporosis disease state awareness, the willingness of primary care
physicians to prescribe the product and the availability of reimbursement for and patient acceptance of the product.

On May 25, 2010, the EC granted marketing authorization for
Prolia®for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fractures and for the
treatment of bone loss associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer at increased risk of fractures. Since the first reimbursement authority was received in Germany in July 2010, reimbursement authority approval has been granted in
most EU countries.

Worldwide Prolia®sales for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, were $203 million and $33 million, respectively.







Any products or technologies that are directly or
indirectly successful in treating postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO) in women at high risk for fracture could negatively impact Prolia®sales.

The following table and discussion reflect other companies and their currently marketed products that
compete with Prolia®. The table below and the following discussion of competitor marketed products and products
in development may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S. & EuropeFOSAMAX®(1)MerckU.S. & EuropeActonel®AtelviaTMWarner Chilcott PLCU.S. & EuropeBoniva®/Bonviva®RocheU.S. & EuropeEvista®Eli LillyU.S. & EuropeForteo®/Forsteo™Eli LillyU.S. & EuropeMiacalcin®Novartis AG (Novartis)U.S. & EuropeAclasta®/Reclast®NovartisEuropeConbriza®PfizerEuropeFablyn®Pfizer



(1)Merck’s patent covering the use of FOSAMAX®to treat bone loss expired in the United States in February 2008. Following the patent expiry, generic alendronate, which competes with FOSAMAX®and Prolia®, became available.

We expect several additional marketed products noted above to lose patent protection over the next several years, including Boniva®in 2012, at which time we expect generic versions of these products would become commercially available and compete with Prolia®.

The following companies have product candidates in phase 3 clinical development that may compete with Prolia®in the future:



•Merck (odanacatib), for PMO.



•Radius Health, Inc. (BA058) for PMO.

XGEVA®

On
November 18, 2010, the FDA approved XGEVA®for the prevention of SREs in patients with bone metastases from
solid tumors. XGEVA®is not indicated for the prevention of SREs in patients with multiple myeloma.

®

®

®

®

®

®

®







On July 15, 2011, we announced that the EC granted
marketing authorization for XGEVA®for the prevention of SREs (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal
cord compression or surgery to bone) in adults with bone metastases from solid tumors. The timing of reimbursement authority approval of pricing in individual EU countries will vary by country, which could follow the EC approval by many months. For
example, in August 2011, XGEVA®received reimbursement authority in Germany. The EC also granted XGEVA®an additional year of data and market exclusivity in the EU since the indication was considered new for denosumab
and based on the significant clinical benefit of XGEVA®in comparison with existing therapies.

U.S. XGEVA®sales for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, were $351 million and $8 million, respectively.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating for the
prevention of SREs in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors could negatively impact XGEVA®sales.

The following table reflects currently marketed products that compete with XGEVA®. The table below and the following discussion of competitor marketed products may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S. & EuropeZometa®(1)NovartisU.S. & EuropeAredia®(2)Novartis



(1)Novartis has indicated that patent protection on the active ingredient for Zometa®will expire in 2013 in the United States and 2012 in other major markets. At such time, we expect that generic forms of zoledronic acid may become commercially
available and compete with Zometa®and XGEVA®.



(2)Novartis’s patent covering the use of Aredia®to treat tumor-induced hypercalcemia, osteolysis from multiple myeloma and bone metastases from breast cancer expired in the United States in 2001. Following the
patent expiry, generic pamidronate, which competes with Aredia®and XGEVA®, became available from other companies.

In addition, Bayer has a product candidate, alpharadin, in phase 3 clinical development for SREs in
patients with prostate cancer, that may compete with XGEVA®in the future.

Our outstanding material patents for denosumab are described in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpiration(1)U.S.RANKL antibodies; methods of interfering with RANK signaling12/22/2017U.S.Methods of treatment11/11/2018U.S.RANKL antibodies including sequences2/19/2025U.S.Nucleic acids encoding RANKL antibodies, and methods of producing the same11/11/2023EuropeRANKL antibodies12/22/2017EuropeMedical use of RANKL antibodies4/15/2018EuropeRANKL antibodies including epitope binding2/23/2021EuropeRANKL antibodies including sequences6/25/2022



(1)In some cases,
these patents may be entitled to patent term extension in the United States or supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such extension will vary by country.

Marketing and Distribution

We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United States, Europe and Canada to support our currently marketed products. We have also entered into agreements with third parties to assist in
the commercialization and marketing of certain of our products in specified geographic areas. (SeeBusiness Relationships.) Together with our partners, we market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their
clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. We also market certain products directly to consumers







through direct-to-consumer print and television advertising, and also through the Internet. In addition, for certain of our products, we promote programs to increase public awareness of the
health risks associated with the diseases these products treat, as well as provide support to various patient education and support programs in the related therapeutic areas. (See Government Regulation — FDA Regulation of Product
Marketing and Promotion for a discussion of the government regulation over product marketing and promotion.)

In the United States, we sell primarily to pharmaceutical wholesale distributors. We utilize those wholesale distributors
as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers. In Europe, we sell principally to healthcare providers and/or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors depending on the distribution practice in each country. We monitor the
financial condition of our larger customers, and we limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits and, for certain customers, by requiring letters of credit.

We had product sales to three customers each accounting for more than 10% of total revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. For 2011, on a combined basis, these customers accounted for 72% and 90% of worldwide gross revenues and U.S. gross product sales, respectively, as noted in the following table. Certain information with respect
to these customers for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was as follows (dollar amounts in millions):



201120102009AmerisourceBergen Corporation:Gross product sales$7,574$7,678$7,179% of total gross revenues36%38%37%% of U.S. gross product sales45%47%46%McKesson Corporation:Gross product sales$4,591$3,913$3,694% of total gross revenues.22%19%19%% of U.S. gross product sales27%24%24%Cardinal Health, Inc:Gross product sales$3,021$2,813$2,841% of total gross revenues.14%14%15%% of U.S. gross product sales18%17%18%

Reimbursement

Sales of all of our principal products are dependent in large part on the availability and extent of coverage and
reimbursement from third-party payers, including government and private insurance plans. Most patients receiving our products are covered by government healthcare programs or private insurers. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement and/or
pricing of our products to control costs or to affect levels of use of our products, and private insurers may adopt or be influenced by government coverage and reimbursement methodologies. Worldwide use of our products may be affected by cost
containment pressures and cost shifting from governments and private insurers to healthcare providers or patients in response to ongoing initiatives to reduce or reallocate healthcare expenditures. An increasing worldwide focus on patient access
controls and cost containment by public and private insurers has resulted, and may continue to result, in reduced reimbursement rates for our products. In addition, recent healthcare reform efforts enacted in the United States have made substantial
long-term changes to the reimbursement of our products, and those changes have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant impact on our business.

U.S. Reimbursement System

Our principal products are sold
primarily in the United States and healthcare providers, including doctors, hospitals and other healthcare professionals and providers, are reimbursed for covered services and products they use by the government through Medicare, Medicaid and other
government healthcare programs as well as through private payers. Government healthcare programs are funded primarily through the payment of taxes by individuals and businesses. The public and private components of this multi-payer system are
described below.









Medicare and Other Forms of Public Health Insurance

Medicare Part B Coverage of Drugs and ESRD.Medicare Part B provides limited coverage of
outpatient drugs and biologicals that are reasonable and necessary for a medically accepted diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury and that fall into a statutory benefit category. One such category relevant to our products is for drugs and
biologicals furnished “incident to” a physician’s services. Generally, “incident to” drugs and biologicals are covered if they satisfy certain criteria, including that they are of the type that are not usually
self-administered by the patient. Medicare Part B also covers certain drugs pursuant to specific statutory benefit categories, such as blood-clotting factors and certain immunosuppressive drugs, erythropoietin and certain oral cancer drugs. Many of
our principal products are currently covered under Medicare Part B (as well as other government healthcare programs). In addition, most patients with ESRD, regardless of age, are eligible for coverage of dialysis treatment through the ESRD Program
under Medicare Part B. Because Medicare Part B is the primary payer for dialysis treatment, reimbursement for products, such as EPOGEN®, that are typicallyadministered in dialysis centers and other settings is particularly sensitive to changes in Medicare coverage and reimbursement policy.
Since January 1, 2011, dialysis treatment has been reimbursed by Medicare under a bundled payment system described in more detail below. (See Dialysis Reimbursement.)

Medicare Part D. Medicare Part D provides a voluntary prescription drug benefit for Medicare eligible
beneficiaries. The coverage is available through various private plans that provide insurance coverage for prescription drugs for a monthly premium and with patient cost sharing. The list of prescription drugs covered by Medicare Part D plans varies
by plan, but drug lists maintained by individual plans must cover certain classes of drugs and biologicals; specifically the statute stipulates that Medicare Part D plans have at least two drugs in each unique therapeutic category or class, subject
to certain exceptions.

Medicaid.Medicaid is a joint federal and state program administered by
individual states for low-income and disabled eligible beneficiaries. CMS also has responsibility for federal administration of the Medicaid program. Under federal law, states must cover low-income adults and children, pregnant women, disabled
individuals and seniors, and states have the option of expanding eligibility beyond those groups of beneficiaries. Medicaid is financed jointly by the states and federal government through taxes. Medicaid offers a broad set of benefits, including
prescription drugs. Medicaid includes the Drug Rebate Program which requires manufacturers to provide rebates to the states for products covered and reimbursed by state Medicaid programs.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.

Private Health Insurance

Employer-sponsored insurance.Employer-sponsored insurance currently represents the main pathway by which Americans receive private health insurance. Many employers provide health insurance as part
of







employees’ benefit packages. Insurance plans are administered by private companies, both for-profit and not-for-profit, and some companies are “self-insured” (i.e., they pay for
all healthcare costs incurred by employees directly through a plan administered by a third party). Generally, employer-sponsored insurance premiums are paid primarily by employers and secondarily by employees.

Individual market.The individual market covers part of the population that is self-employed or retired. In
addition, it covers some people who are unable to obtain insurance through their employers. The plans are administered by private insurance companies. Individuals pay out-of-pocket insurance premiums for coverage, and the benefits vary widely
according to plan specifications.

Reimbursement of Our Principal Products

Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®and Aranesp®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

Since 2005, products provided in the physician office setting under Medicare Part B have been reimbursed at 106% of their
ASP (sometimes referred to as “ASP+6%”), and in 2012 will continue to be reimbursed at this rate pursuant to the 2012 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Final Rule. In the hospital outpatient setting, from 2006 to 2010 Medicare reimbursement
rates fell incrementally from ASP+6% to ASP+4%, then rose in 2011 to ASP+5%. Pursuant to the 2012 Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment Final Rule, the rate will fall again to ASP+4% in 2012. CMS has the regulatory authority to further adjust
formulas in future years. The extent to which commercial payers adopt the use of ASP as a payment methodology is often based on the contractual relationship between the provider and the insurer.

Dialysis Reimbursement.Currently, dialysis providers in the United States are reimbursed for
EPOGEN®primarily by Medicare through the ESRD Program, which is established by federal law and implemented by
CMS. Historically, the ESRD Program reimbursed Medicare providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs; the remainder was paid by other sources, including patients, state Medicaid programs, private insurance, and to a lesser extent, state kidney
patient programs. Until January 1, 2011, Medicare reimbursed for separately billable dialysis drugs (including
Aranesp®and EPOGEN®) administered in both freestanding and hospital-based dialysis centers, at ASP+6%, using the same payment amount methodology used in the physician clinic setting
under Part B. On January 1, 2011, CMS’s bundled payment system went into effect for dialysis providers which provides a single payment for all dialysis services including drugs, supplies and non-routine laboratory tests that were
previously reimbursed separately. ESRD providers receive a designated payment for each dialysis treatment and can be paid for up to three treatments per week, unless medical necessity justifies more frequent treatments. Oral







drugs without intravenous equivalents, including Sensipar®and phosphate binders, will remain under the Medicare Part D benefit until 2014 when they will be reimbursed under the bundled payment system.

To encourage dialysis providers to continue to provide quality dialysis treatment under the new bundled payment system, CMS also implemented the ESRD QIP. Under the QIP, beginning in 2012, ESRD facilities
will be subject to a payment penalty of up to 2% of amounts reimbursed for failure to meet or exceed CMS’ quality performance standards, including performance standards related to anemia management and dialysis adequacy. Under the QIP as
originally implemented, a provider’s penalty in 2012 will be based on the provider’s composite score for the following performance measures achieved during 2010:



•the percent of Medicare patients with Hb levels below 10 g/dL constitutes 50% of the weighting;



•the percent of Medicare patients with Hb levels above 12 g/dL represents 25% of the weighting; and



•the percent of Medicare patients with an average Urea Reduction Ratio of greater than or equal to 65% constitutes 25% of the weighting.

On November 1, 2011, CMS finalized a rule to update the QIP, eliminating for payment
year 2013 and beyond the QIP’s measure that tracks the percent of a provider’s Medicare patients with a Hb level below 10 g/dL. Beginning in payment year 2013, the remaining two metrics will each constitute 50% of the weighting. CMS
indicated that removal of this measure from the QIP was being done in response to the June 2011 ESA label changes.

ENBREL Reimbursement.The majority of prescription claims for ENBREL are paid through private insurance companies. Under Medicare, ENBREL is reimbursed through the Part D program,
although less than 10% of all ENBREL U.S. prescriptions are reimbursed by Medicare.

Medicaid Reimbursement

.

Related to our participation in the
Medicaid drug rebate program is a requirement that we extend comparable discounts under the Public Health Service (PHS) drug pricing program to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the
PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. As more fully described below, the list of entities to which we are required to extend these discounts also expanded as a result of the U.S.
healthcare reform law.









U.S. Healthcare Reform.In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the PPACA) and
the companion Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, which made certain changes and adjustments to the PPACA, primarily with respect to the PPACA’s financial and budgetary impacts, were signed into law. We refer to those two laws
collectively as the “U.S. healthcare reform law.” The U.S. healthcare reform law imposes additional costs on and reduces the revenue of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. The following paragraphs describe certain
provisions of the new healthcare reform law that are affecting and will affect the reimbursement of our products.

The U.S. healthcare reform law increased the rebates we pay to the states for our products that are covered and reimbursed by state Medicaid programs. The healthcare reform law increased the minimum base
Medicaid rebate rate payable on our products reimbursed by Medicaid from 15.1% to 23.1% of the AMP of the product, or if it is greater, the difference between the AMP and the best price available from us to any non-government customer. The change in
the minimum rebate percentage was effective on January 1, 2010. The healthcare reform law also extended the Medicaid drug rebate program to patients in Medicaid managed care insurance plans for whom rebates were not previously required. The
extension of rebates to patients in Medicaid managed care plans was effective on March 23, 2010.

As
mentioned above, the U.S. healthcare reform law also expanded the list of provider institutions to which we must extend discounts under the PHS 340B drug pricing program. The U.S. healthcare reform law added certain cancer centers, children’s
hospitals, critical access hospitals and rural referral centers to the list of entities to which these discounts must be extended. This change to the list of eligible entities was effective on January 1, 2010. The U.S. healthcare reform law
also imposed a new fee (the U.S. healthcare reform federal excise fee) on manufacturers and importers of “branded prescription drugs,” which includes drugs approved under section 505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or
biologicals licensed under section 351(a) of the Public Health Service Act. Beginning in 2011, the U.S. healthcare reform law sets an aggregate annual fee, to be paid by these manufacturers and importers, totaling $28 billion over 10 years, of which
$2.5 billion was payable in 2011. This annual fee is apportioned among the participating companies, including us, based on each company’s sales of qualifying products to, and utilization by, certain U.S. government programs during the preceding
calendar year. The additional fee became effective January 1, 2011, and is not deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Manufacturers and importers of generic or biosimilar drugs are not subject to the fee.

Since the Medicare Part D drug benefit took effect in 2006, beneficiaries enrolled in Part D plans have been required to
pay 100% of their prescription drug costs after their total drug spending exceeds an initial coverage limit until they qualify for catastrophic coverage. This coverage gap is sometimes referred to as the Part D







“doughnut hole.” The U.S. healthcare reform law reduces the “doughnut hole” by requiring manufacturers like us to provide a 50% discount to Medicare Part D patients whose
prescription expenses exceed the Part D prescription drug coverage limit but have not yet reached the catastrophic coverage threshold. This provision became effective January 1, 2011.

The U.S. healthcare reform law also expands the Medicaid eligibility to include those with incomes up to 133% of the
federal poverty level (FPL), from 100% of the FPL. This provision becomes effective January 1, 2014.

Impact of Budget Control Act on
U.S. Reimbursement

The Budget Control Act of 2011, signed into law in the United States in August 2011,
mandated a two percent reduction in government payments for all Medicare services (including the administration of separately-billable drugs and payment for drugs in all Medicare programs) for federal fiscal years 2013 through 2021, unless a
subsequent deficit reduction law was passed before January 2012. As no additional deficit reduction law was enacted by January 2012, the payment reduction (or “sequestration”) will likely start in January 2013 and continue until
December 2021, subject to administrative implementation of the Budget Control Act or future statutory revision. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from U.S. government programs as a result of the sequestration or from
other changes designed to achieve similar federal budget savings could have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products, our business and results of operations.

Reimbursement Outside the United States

Generally, in
Europe and other countries outside the United States, government-sponsored healthcare systems have traditionally been the primary payers of all healthcare costs, including payment for drugs and biologicals. Over the past several years, the
reimbursement environment in Europe has become very challenging, including as a result of the proliferation of Health Technology Assessment (HTA) organizations (e.g., National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) in the UK) that make
recommendations and/or determinations of coverage and reimbursement based on both the clinical as well as the economic value of a product. Although the methods employed by different HTA agencies vary from country to country, the use of formal
economic metrics has been increasing across Europe as well as in several emerging markets throughout the world. In addition to determining whether or not a new product will be reimbursed, these agencies are becoming increasingly involved in setting
the maximum price at which the product will be reimbursed — the “value-based” price for a product.









In many countries, the influence of regional and hospital payers also
contributes to whether patients have access to certain products. For example, a product may be successfully listed on a national formulary, but may also be subject to further evaluations or competitive bidding by payers at a regional or hospital
level. The impact of multiple layers of assessment can result in delay or failure to secure access and/or net price pressure.

Payers in some countries are using and others are beginning to experiment with alternative payment mechanisms (e.g., payment caps, risk sharing) as a means to maintain access to innovative therapies while
increasing their budget certainty. Requirements for such payment mechanisms can impact Amgen’s business through increased net price concessions and added administrative burden.

Fraud and Abuse Regulations Related to Reimbursement

As
participants in government reimbursement programs, we are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws, as well as foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. (See
Government Regulation — Other.) Violations of fraud and abuse laws can result in stringent enforcement penalties up to and including complete exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).

Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials

Manufacturing

Biological products, which are produced in
living systems, are inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory scale processes into reproducible commercial
manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing operations consist of bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish and distribution activities. Bulk manufacturing includes fermentation and/or cell culture, processes by which our proteins are
produced, and also includes purification of the proteins to a high quality. The proteins are then formulated into a stable form. The fill process dispenses the formulated bulk protein into vials or syringes. Finally, in the finish process, our
products are packaged for distribution.

We operate a number of commercial and/or clinical
manufacturing facilities, and our primary facilities are located in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Netherlands. (See Item 2. Properties.) We also use and expect to continue to use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist
in the production of certain of our large molecule marketed products as well as a number of our clinical product candidates. Manufacturing of Sensipar®/Mimpara®, our small molecule
product, is currently performed by third-party contract manufacturers, except for certain finish activities performed by us in Puerto Rico.

The global supply of our products depends on actively managing the inventory produced at our facilities and by third-party contract manufacturers and the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these
facilities. During the manufacturing scale-up process, and even after achieving sustainable commercial manufacturing, we may encounter difficulties or disruptions due to defects in raw materials or equipment, contamination or other factors that
could impact product availability. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales and — We rely on third-party
suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.)

Commercial Bulk Manufacturing

We operate commercial bulk manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico and in several locations throughout
the United States. (See Item 2. Properties.) We perform commercial bulk manufacturing for our proteins except
Vectibix®, which is performed by a third-party contract manufacturer. We also supplement commercial bulk
manufacturing for ENBREL, Prolia®and XGEVA®with a third-party contract manufacturer.

Commercial Formulation, Fill and Finish Manufacturing

We perform most of our commercial protein formulation, fill and finish manufacturing in our Puerto
Rico facility. Formulation, fill and finish manufacturing for Nplate®and Vectibix®is performed by third-party







contract manufacturers. In addition to the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL performed by us in Puerto Rico, fill and finish of a certain portion of ENBREL is also performed by third-party
contract manufacturers. We also conduct certain finish activities in the Netherlands. (See Item 2. Properties.)

Clinical Manufacturing

Clinical bulk, formulation, fill and finish manufacturing facilities are operated primarily in our Thousand Oaks, California location. (See Item 2. Properties.) Clinical bulk and fill manufacturing
activities for our clinical product candidate, talimogene laherparepvec, are performed at our Woburn, Massachusetts facility. Certain finish activities for our clinical products are also performed in the Netherlands. In addition, we also utilize
third-party contract manufacturers for certain of our clinical products.

See Item 1A. Risk
Factors — We perform a substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing activities at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility and a substantial amount of our clinical manufacturing activities at our Thousand Oaks, California
manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at the Puerto Rico facility, we may not be able to supply these products or, at the Thousand Oaks facility, we may not be able to continue our clinical trials.

Distribution

We operate distribution centers in the United States, principally in Kentucky and California, and in the Netherlands for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and clinical products. In
addition, we also use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our commercial and clinical products in certain areas of the world.

Other

In addition to the manufacturing and distribution
activities noted above, our operations in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Netherlands perform key manufacturing support functions, including quality control, process development, procurement, distribution and production scheduling. Certain of
those manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated by the FDA as well as other international regulatory agencies. (See Government Regulation — FDA Regulation of Manufacturing Standards.)

Manufacturing Initiatives

We have multiple ongoing initiatives that are designed to optimize our manufacturing network and/or mitigate risks while continuing to ensure adequate supply of our commercial products. The facilities
impacted by each of these initiatives will require qualification and licensure by various regulatory authorities. These initiatives include:



•Construction of a new formulation and fill facility at our Puerto Rico site;



•Expansion of our bulk protein facilities at our Puerto Rico site;



•Modification and expansion of our recently acquired formulation, fill and finish site in Ireland; and



•Expansion of our Colorado and Rhode Island facilities to enable manufacturing of certain clinical products as well as to provide alternative bulk
manufacturing sources for certain marketed products.

In addition to these initiatives, we
have projects designed to operate our facilities at appropriate production capacity over the next few years, further optimize manufacturing asset utilization, continue our use of third-party contract manufacturers and maintain a state of regulatory
compliance. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.)

Raw Materials and Medical Devices

Certain raw materials
necessary for the commercial and clinical bulk manufacturing of our products are provided by unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only source for such materials. Also,







certain medical devices and components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of our products are provided by unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of which may be the sole source.
Certain of the raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from the
specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by inventory management,
relationship management and evaluation of alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial condition of certain suppliers and their ability to supply our needs.

Certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other
countries and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. In addition, one of our marketed products also uses bovine serum and human serum albumin. Some countries in which we market our products may restrict the use of certain
biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. We continue to investigate alternatives to certain biological sources and alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use of certain biologically derived substances because
such raw materials may be subject to contamination and/or recall. A material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restriction of the use of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from other countries
and that are used in the manufacture of our products could adversely impact or disrupt the commercial manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated withdrawal of our products from the market. (See Item 1A. Risk
Factors — We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.)

We perform various procedures to assist in authenticating the source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used in the manufacture of our products, which include verification of the country
of origin. These procedures are incorporated into the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract manufacturers perform.

Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and other countries is
a significant factor in the production and marketing of our products and our ongoing R&D activities.

In
order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies. In the United States, the Public Health Service Act,
the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the raw materials and components used in the production, research,
development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion, and distribution of our products. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to a variety
of administrative and/or judicially imposed sanctions. The sanctions could include the FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawals of approvals, delay or suspension of clinical trials, warning letters, product recalls, product
seizures, total or partial suspension of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution.

Clinical Development.We must conduct extensive clinical trials designed to establish the safety and efficacy of product candidates in order to file for regulatory approval to market a product.
Product development and approval within that regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves our expenditure of substantial resources, and any approval we obtain remains costly for us to maintain. After laboratory analysis and preclinical
testing in animals, we file an investigational new drug application (IND) with the FDA to begin human testing. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA raises concerns or questions. In such a case, we
and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin.

Typically, we undertake
a three-phase human clinical testing program. In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product candidates in a small number of human subjects. In phase 2, we conduct clinical trials to
investigate side effect profiles and the efficacy of our product candidates in a larger number of patients who have the disease or condition under study. In phase 3, we conduct







clinical trials to investigate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study. The time and expense required for us
to perform this clinical testing is substantial and may vary by product. For example, the clinical trials for the BLA for
Prolia®/XGEVA®were large and required substantial time and resources to recruit patients and significant expense to execute. Historically, our products have required smaller,
shorter trials. Foreign studies performed under an IND must meet the same requirements that apply to U.S. studies. The FDA will accept a foreign clinical study not conducted under an IND only if the study is well-designed, well-conducted, performed
by qualified investigators, and conforms to good clinical practice. Phase 1, 2 and 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified time period, if at all. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors — We may not be able to
develop commercial products.) The FDA monitors the progress of each trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion, re-evaluate, alter, suspend, or terminate the testing based on the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s
risk/benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in the trial. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors — We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing
products for new indications.)

Applications. The results of preclinical and clinical trials are
submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for biologic products subject to the Public Health Service Act or an NDA for drugs subject to the approval provisions of the FDCA. The submission of the application is no guarantee that the FDA will find it
complete and accept it for filing. If an application is accepted for filing, following the FDA’s review, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application if it determines that the application does
not provide an adequate basis for approval. We cannot take any action to market any new drug or biologic product in the United States until our appropriate marketing application has been approved by the FDA.

Post-approval Phase.

The FDAAA also gave the FDA authority to
require companies to implement a REMS for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drugs outweigh the risks. While risk management activities and programs are not new, with FDAAA the FDA gained new authority to implement specific risk management
requirements and new enforcement power to ensure that the goals of the REMS are being met. The FDA began to implement REMS in 2008. The FDA may require the submission of a REMS before a product is approved or after approval based on new safety
information, including new analyses of existing safety information. In determining whether a product will require a REMS before the product is approved, the FDA may consider a number of factors including:



•estimated size of the population likely to use the product;



•seriousness of the condition treated and expected benefits of the product;







•duration of treatment with the product;



•seriousness of known or potential adverse events associated with the product; and



•whether the product is a new molecular entity.

All REMS are required to have a timetable for assessment and may have one or more of the following:



•distribution of a medication guide or a patient package insert to patients;



•communication plan for the healthcare provider or institution, such as a Dear Healthcare Professional Letter;



•elements to assure safe use including, but not limited to:



¡specific training, experience or certification for prescribers;



¡certification of medication dispensing sites and dispensing in limited settings;



¡monitoring of specific patients; and



¡enrollment of patients in a registry.

Each REMS is unique and varies depending on the specific factors required. While the elements of REMS
may vary, all REMS require the sponsor to submit periodic assessment reports to the FDA to demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met. Failure to comply with a REMS, including submission of a required assessment or any modification to a
REMS, may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and can result in additional limitations being placed on a product’s use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. We currently have approved REMS for our ESAs,
Prolia®and Nplate®. As REMS are relatively new, the FDA and sponsor companies continue to learn how best to implement, operate and monitor the effectiveness of REMS, and the
requirements of our REMS and those of other companies may change over time.

Adverse events that are reported
after marketing approval also can result in additional limitations being placed on a product’s use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. The FDA has authority to mandate labeling changes to products at any point in a
product’s lifecycle based on new safety information or as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products.

The FDA also uses various advisory committees of external experts to assist in its mission to protect and promote the public health, to obtain independent expert advice on scientific, technical and policy
matters. The committees are generally advisory only and FDA officials are not bound to or limited by their recommendations. We have participated in meetings of the ODAC, the Cardiovascular and Renal Drug Advisory Committee and the Advisory Committee
for Reproductive Health Drugs, among others, to address certain issues related to our products, including
Aranesp®, EPOGEN®, Prolia®and XGEVA®.

FDA Approval of Biosimilar Products







biosimilar application must include a clinical study or studies sufficient to demonstrate safety, purity and potency in one or more indications for which the reference product is licensed and the
biosimilar applicant seeks approval. The scope and magnitude of clinical data needed will depend on the extent of uncertainty about the biosimilarity of the product as well as the frequency and severity of safety risks associated with the reference
product. The FDA indicated that it is still evaluating a number of relevant issues, including criteria for interchangeability (which FDA indicated would be “higher standard” than biosimilarity). The FDA will accept public comments on the
guidance documents for 60 days, following which it may issue final guidance. The FDA has also stated publicly that it intends to hold a follow-up public meeting in the near future to obtain feedback on what additional clarification on the
biosimilars approval process is needed.

FDA Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. The FDA
closely reviews and regulates the marketing and promotion of products. We are required to obtain FDA approval before marketing or promoting a product as a treatment for a particular indication. Our product promotion for approved product indications
must comply with the statutory standards of the FDCA, and the FDA’s implementing regulations and standards. The FDA’s review of marketing and promotional activities encompasses, but is not limited to, direct-to-consumer advertising,
healthcare provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional activities involving the Internet. The FDA may also review industry-sponsored scientific
and educational activities. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Enforcement action may include product
seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations also can result in
adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the U.S. Congress or other legislators.

FDA Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. The FDA regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and
processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products prior to providing approval to market a product. If after receiving approval from the FDA, we make a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory
review may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA also conducts regular, periodic visits to
re-inspect our equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial approval. If, as a result of those inspections, the FDA determines that our equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable FDA
regulations and conditions of product approval, the FDA may seek civil, criminal or administrative sanctions and/or remedies against us, including suspension of our manufacturing operations. Such issues may also delay the approval of new products
undergoing FDA review.

Approval and Post-Approval Regulation Outside the United States.







report adverse effects and other medicine-related problems. This process includes the collection of adverse drug reaction reports as part of the follow-up on any side effects of a product, and
upon assessment, the authorities can decide to demand that product labels be updated with safety data or warnings, that safety data or warnings be provided to healthcare professionals, or recommend the temporary suspension or complete withdrawal of
a product from the market.

Other

We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control
Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other current and potential future federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations. Our R&D activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials
and various radioactive compounds. We believe our procedures comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental contamination cannot be completely eliminated.
While we are not required to do so, we strive to conduct our research and manufacturing activities in a manner that meets the intents and purposes of the National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research.

Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives
from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes
interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations.

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and/or regulations.

Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates

Our vision is to deliver therapeutics that can make a meaningful difference in patients’ lives. Therefore, we focus our R&D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of grievous illness in
the areas of oncology, hematology, inflammation, bone health, nephrology, cardiovascular and general medicine, which includes neuroscience. We take a modality-independent approach to R&D — that is, we identify targets, and then choose the
modality best suited to address a specific target. As such, our discovery research programs may yield targets that lead to the development of human therapeutics delivered as large molecules (such as proteins, antibodies and peptibodies) or small
molecules.







We have major R&D centers in several locations throughout the United
States and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller research centers and development facilities globally. (See Item 2. Properties.)

We conduct clinical trial activities using both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial service providers. In order to increase the number of patients available for enrollment for our
clinical trials, we have and will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of geographic locations. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors — We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of
our product candidates or existing products for new indications.)

Some of our competitors are actively engaged
in R&D in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. For example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, which may limit the number of available
patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product candidates is significantly dependent upon the timing of entry into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product
acceptance, contributing to the product’s eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval and supply
commercial quantities of the product to the market is expected to be important to our competitive position.

In
addition to product candidates and marketed products generated from our internal R&D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D arrangements with third parties to
enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These licenses and arrangements generally provide for non-refundable upfront license fees,
R&D and commercial performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing.

Various public and privately owned companies, research organizations, academic institutions and governmental agencies
conduct a significant amount of R&D in the biotechnology industry. We face competition in pursuing R&D arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to license or
acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed products from these entities. Accordingly, we may have difficulty entering into R&D arrangements and licensing or acquiring technologies, product candidates and marketed products on acceptable
terms.

See Government Regulation — Clinical Development for a discussion of the government regulation
over clinical development.







The following table is a selection of certain of our product candidates by
phase of development in our therapeutic areas of focus as of February 10, 2012, unless otherwise indicated. Each target indication for product candidates in phase 3 is listed separately. Additional product candidate (pipeline) information can
be found on our website at http://www.amgen.com. (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.)





MoleculeDisease/ConditionTherapeutic Area

Phase 3 Programs

AMG 386Ovarian cancerHematology/Oncology

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)Myelodysplastic syndromesHematology/Oncology

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)Anemia in heart failureNephrology

GanitumabPancreatic cancerHematology/Oncology

MotesanibFirst-line non-small cell lung cancerHematology/Oncology

Prolia®(denosumab)Male osteoporosisBone Health

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)Cardiovascular disease in patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism and chronic kidney disease undergoing maintenance
dialysisNephrology

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)Post renal transplantNephrology

Talimogene laherparepvecMalignant melanomaHematology/Oncology

Vectibix®(panitumumab) — US
OnlyFirst- and second-line colorectal cancerHematology/Oncology

XGEVA®(denosumab)Delay or prevention of bone metastases in prostate cancerHematology/Oncology

XGEVA®(denosumab)Delay or prevention of bone metastases in breast cancerHematology/Oncology



Phase 2 Programs

AMG 145HypercholesterolemiaCardiovascular

AMG 151Type 2 diabetesGeneral Medicine

AMG 386Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 785Bone-related conditions, including postmenopausal osteoporosis and fracture healingBone Health

AMG 827Inflammatory diseasesInflammation

AMG 888Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

Prolia®(denosumab)Rheumatoid arthritisInflammation

GanitumabVarious cancer typesHematology/Oncology

Nplate®(romiplostim)Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopeniaHematology/Oncology

Omecamtiv mecarbilHeart failureCardiovascular

RilotumumabVarious cancer typesHematology/Oncology

Vectibix®(panitumumab)Locally advanced head and neck cancerHematology/Oncology

XGEVA®(denosumab)Giant cell tumor of the boneHematology/Oncology



Phase 1 Programs

AMG 139Inflammatory diseasesInflammation

AMG 157AsthmaInflammation

AMG 167Bone-related conditionsBone Health

AMG 181Inflammatory diseasesInflammation

AMG 208Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 319Hematologic malignanciesHematology/Oncology

AMG 337Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 557Systemic lupus erythematosusInflammation

AMG 579NeuroscienceGeneral Medicine

AMG 729Autoimmune diseasesInflammation

AMG 745Muscle-wasting disordersGeneral Medicine

AMG 747NeuroscienceGeneral Medicine

AMG 761AsthmaInflammation

AMG 780Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 811Systemic lupus erythematosusInflammation

AMG 820Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 876Type 2 diabetesGeneral Medicine

AMG 900Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology



Phase 1clinical trials investigate safety and proper dose ranges of a product candidate in a small number of human subjects.



Phase 2clinical trials investigate side effect profiles and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition
under study.



Phase 3clinical trials investigate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under
study.







The following text provides additional information about selected product
candidates that have advanced into human clinical trials.

AMG 386

AMG 386 is a peptibody that inhibits the interaction between the endothelial cell-selective Tie2 receptor and its ligands
Ang1and Ang2. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In 2011, we announced that
enrollment was suspended in the phase 3 study in recurrent ovarian cancer due to DOXIL®(doxorubicin HCl
liposome injection) supply issues. We initiated a second phase 3 study in recurrent ovarian cancer in 2011. We initiated a phase 3 study for the treatment of first-line ovarian cancer and plan to initiate other phase 2 studies for the treatment of
NSCLC and breast cancer in 2012. Phase 2 studies of AMG 386 for treatment of renal cell carcicoma and hepatocellular carcinoma are ongoing.

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)

Aranesp®is a recombinant human protein agonist of the erythropoietin receptor.

The RED-HF®trial phase 3 study, initiated in 2006, is a large (2,600 subjects planned), global, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the effect of
treatment of anemia with darbepoetin alfa on morbidity and mortality in patients with symptomatic left ventricular heart failure. The RED-HF®trial continues to enroll subjects and we anticipate data from the study in 2013. In 2011, we initiated a phase 3 study of Aranesp®for the treatment of low risk myelodysplastic syndromes.

Ganitumab (AMG 479)

Ganitumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody antagonist of IGF-1 receptor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In 2011, we initiated a phase 3 study for the treatment of first-line metastatic pancreatic cancer.

A phase 2 study for the treatment of small cell lung cancer is ongoing.

Motesanib

Motesanib is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1, 2 and 3, platelet-derived growth factor receptors and stem cell factor receptor. It is
being investigated as a cancer treatment. We are developing this product in collaboration with Takeda and Millennium Pharmaceuticals: The Takeda Oncology Company (Millennium).

In March 2011, we along with Takeda and Millennium announced top-line results from the MONET1 pivotal phase 3 trial
evaluating motesanib administered in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin in 1,090 patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC. The trial did not meet its primary objective of demonstrating an improvement in overall survival (hazard ratio 0.90,
95% confidence interval 0.78 — 1.04, p=0.14). Detailed results were also presented at a medical meeting in May 2011. The parties continue to further analyze the data to explore potential opportunities for additional development in
first-line NSCLC.

Denosumab

Denosumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that specifically targets a ligand known as RANKL (that binds to a receptor known as RANK) which is a key mediator of osteoclast formation, function, and
survival. Denosumab is being studied across a range of conditions including osteoporosis, treatment-induced bone loss, rheumatoid arthritis and numerous tumor types across the spectrum of cancer-related bone diseases.

Prolia®(denosumab)

The phase 3 study evaluating Prolia®patients with male
osteoporosis was completed and based on the results we announced on November 21, 2011, an sBLA was filed with the FDA for the indication to increase







bone mass in men with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture. We also plan to initiate a phase 3 study of Prolia®for the treatment of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis in 2012.

XGEVA®(denosumab)

In April 2011, we announced that we plan to file for the treatment of giant cell tumor of the bone. On
June 27, 2011, we announced the submission of an sBLA to the FDA to expand the indication for XGEVA®to
treat men with castration-resistant prostate cancer to reduce the risk of developing bone metastases. On February 8, 2012, the FDA convened the ODAC to discuss the sBLA filing. The ODAC panel voted 12 to 1 that the overall magnitude of benefit
demonstrated with early treatment with XGEVA®to delay bone metastases was not sufficient to conclude a positive
risk-benefit ratio in the absence of additional measures impacting quality of life or other disease outcomes. The FDA has targeted a PDUFA action date of April 26, 2012. A phase 3 study for the delay or prevention of bone metastases in patients
with adjuvant breast cancer is ongoing. We are planning an additional phase 3 SRE study in patients with multiple myeloma.

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)

Sensipar®/Mimpara®is an
orally-administered small molecule that lowers PTH levels in blood by signaling through the calcium-sensing receptor in parathyroid tissue to inhibit PTH secretion. It also lowers blood calcium and phosphorous levels.

The phase 3 E.V.O.L.V.E™ trial, initiated in 2006, is a large (3,800 patient), multi-center,
international, randomized, double-blind study to assess the effects of Sensipar®/Mimpara®on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity in patients with CKD undergoing maintenance dialysis. The
E.V.O.L.V.E™ study completed enrollment in January 2008 and we anticipate data from the study in 2012.

Sensipar®/Mimpara®is also being evaluated in post renal transplant patients.

Talimogene laherparepvec (formerly known as OncoVEXGM-CSF)

Talimogene laherparepvec is an oncolytic
immunotherapy derived from HSV-1. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

On March 4, 2011, we
acquired BioVex, a privately held biotechnology company developing treatments for cancer and the prevention of infectious disease, including talimogene laherparepvec, then in phase 3 clinical development for the treatment of malignant melanoma and
head and neck cancer. On July 29, 2011, we announced our decision to terminate the phase 3 trial in patients with head and neck cancer. The phase 3 study for the treatment of malignant melanoma is ongoing.

Vectibix®(panitumumab)

Vectibix®is a monoclonal antibody antagonist of the EGFr pathway.
It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In July 2011, we announced that we received Complete Response
Letters from the FDA on the first- and second-line line mCRC sBLAs requesting additional information from the ‘181 and ‘203 studies. A phase 2 study for the treatment of locally advanced head and neck cancer is ongoing.

AMG 145

AMG 145 is a fully human monoclonal antibody to Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 (PCSK9), a negative regulator of low-density lipoprotein receptor. AMG 145 is being investigated for the
treatment of hypercholesterolemia.

Phase 1 single and multiple ascending dose studies have been completed.
Results of the phase 1 single dose study were presented at a medical conference in November 2011. In 2011, phase 2 studies of AMG 145 for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia were initiated.







AMG 151

AMG 151 is an orally-administered small molecule glucokinase activator. It reduces glucose levels via a dual mechanism of
action — working in both the pancreas and the liver. It is being investigated as a treatment of type 2 diabetes.

In 2011 we initiated a phase 2 study of AMG 151 for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

AMG 785

AMG 785 is a humanized monoclonal antibody that
targets sclerostin, a protein secreted by bone cells that inhibits bone formation. AMG 785 (also known as CDP7851) is being developed in collaboration with UCB for bone-related conditions, including postmenopausal osteoporosis and fracture healing.

In April 2011, we announced top-line results from the phase 2 clinical study comparing sclerostin-antibody AMG
785 to placebo in postmenopausal women with low bone mineral density BMD for the treatment of PMO. We plan to initiate phase 3 studies for the treatment of PMO in 2012. Phase 2 studies of AMG 785 for the treatment of fracture healing are ongoing.

AMG 827

AMG 827 is a human monoclonal antibody that binds to and blocks signaling via the interleukin-17 receptor. It is being investigated as a treatment for a variety of inflammatory diseases.

We reported the results from the phase 2 psoriasis study at a medical meeting in May 2011. Based on the study results, we
plan to initiate phase 3 studies for the treatment of psoriasis in 2012. In 2011, we announced that following the review of the results, we have elected to discontinue our phase 2 studies for the treatment of RA and Crohn’s disease. In October
2011, we initiated a phase 2 study for the treatment for psoriatic arthritis. A phase 2 study of AMG 827 for the treatment of asthma is ongoing.

AMG 888

AMG 888 is a fully human monoclonal antibody that
inhibits human epidermal growth factor receptor 3 (HER3) oncogenic signaling. AMG 888 is being investigated as a cancer treatment. Amgen is developing this product in collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo.

Daiichi Sankyo initiated a phase 1b/2 study of AMG 888 (U3-1287) in advanced NSCLC in 2010, a phase 1b study in Japan in
2nd line NSCLC in 2011, and a phase 1b/2 study in metastatic breast cancer in 2012.

Nplate®(romiplostim)

Nplate®is a peptibody agonist of the TPO receptor.

Nplate®is being evaluated in chemotherapy-induced
thrombocytopenia.

Omecamtiv mecarbil

Omecamtiv mecarbil is a small molecule activator of cardiac myosin. Omecamtiv mecarbil is being investigated to improve
cardiac contractility in subjects with heart failure. We are developing this product in collaboration with Cytokinetics, Inc.

In 2011, we initiated a phase 2 study for the treatment of heart failure in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction who are hospitalized for acute heart failure.

Rilotumumab (AMG 102)

Rilotumumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that blocks the action of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.







Results from a phase 2 study in gastric cancer in combination with
chemotherapy were reported at a meeting in September 2011. Phase 2 combination studies in the prostate and small cell lung cancer settings continue.

As of February 9, 2011, we had nine phase 3 programs. As of February 10, 2012, we had twelve phase 3 programs, as one was added as the result of our BioVex acquisition and two programs had
advanced into phase 3 trials. These changes are set forth in the following table:



MoleculeDisease / ConditionProgram ChangeTalimogene laherparepvecMalignant melanomaAdded through acquisition of BioVexSensipar®/
Mimpara®(cinacalcet)Post Renal TransplantAdvanced to Phase 3Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)Myelodysplastic syndromesAdvanced to Phase 3

Phase 3 Product Candidate Patent Information

Our outstanding patents for each of our product candidates in phase 3 development that have yet to be approved for any
indication are described in the following table. Patents for products already approved for one or more indications but currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials for additional indications are previously described. (See Marketed Products.)



MoleculeTerritoryGeneral Subject MatterEstimated Expiration*AMG 386U.S.EuropeDNA, polypeptides and compositionsDNA, polypeptides, compositions and method
of treatment20252019-2022GanitumabU.S.Antibodies and compositions2029MotesanibU.S.EuropeMotesanib and compositionsMotesanib, compositions and use for
treatment of cancer20222022Talimogene laherparepvecU.S.Modified HSV1 compounds and strains and methods of treatment using modified HSV1 strains2021EuropeModified HSV1 compounds and strains and methods of treatment using modified HSV1 strains2021



*Patent expiration ranges for each region are based on one or more issued patents, some of which may be or become eligible for term adjustments,
extensions or supplemental protection certificates not captured in this estimate. In addition, new patents may be issued in the future, and existing patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties.

Business Relationships

From time to time, we enter into business relationships, including joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for the
R&D, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and/or product candidates. In addition, we also acquire product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D collaborations with third parties to enhance our strategic position within
our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These arrangements generally provide for non-refundable upfront license fees, regulatory and commercial performance milestone
payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing. The activities under our collaboration agreements are performed with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success, and each is unique in nature.







Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary
information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require counterparties to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of the business relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently
the same or similar information or obtain access to our information.

Kirin-Amgen, Inc.

K-A is a 50-50 joint venture with Kirin. K-A develops and then out licenses to third parties certain product rights which
have been transferred to this joint venture from Kirin and Amgen.

K-A has given us
exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and pegfilgrastim in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, (ii) darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and AMG 827 in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New
Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East, and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in the United States. We currently market pegfilgrastim, G-CSF, darbepoetin
alfa, recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim under the brand names Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®/GRANULOKINE®, Aranesp®, EPOGEN®and Nplate®, respectively. AMG 827 is currently in phase 2 development. Under these agreements, we pay K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, we also receive payments
from K-A for milestones earned and for conducting certain R&D activities on its behalf. (See Note 7, Related party transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)

K-A has also given Kirin exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and
pegfilgrastim in Japan, Taiwan and South Korea, (ii) darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and AMG 827 in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea and in certain other countries in Asia, and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in Japan. K-A also gave
Kirin and Amgen co-exclusive licenses to manufacture and market G-CSF, pegfilgrastim and recombinant human erythropoietin in China, which Amgen subsequently assigned to Kirin, and as a result, Kirin now exclusively manufactures and markets G-CSF and
recombinant human erythropoietin in China. Kirin markets G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and recombinant human erythropoietin under the brand names GRAN®/Grasin®/Filgrastim®, NESP®, ROMIPLATE®and ESPO®, respectively. Kirin received approval for pegfilgrastim in Taiwan in September 2011 under the brand name Neulasta®. Kirin is currently in the process of seeking marketing approval for pegfilgrastim in South Korea. Under these
agreements, Kirin pays K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, Kirin also receives payments from K-A for conducting certain R&D activities on its behalf.

K-A has also given J&J exclusive licenses to manufacture and market recombinant human erythropoietin for all
geographic areas of the world outside the United States, China and Japan. K-A has also given Roche exclusive licenses to market pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in all territories not licensed to Amgen and Kirin. Under these agreements, J&J and Roche pay
royalties to K-A based on product sales.

Pfizer Inc.

We are in a collaboration with Pfizer to co-promote ENBREL in the United States and Canada. The rights to market ENBREL
outside of the United States and Canada are reserved to Pfizer. Under the agreement, a management committee comprised of equal representation from Amgen and Pfizer is responsible for overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL, including strategic
planning, the approval of an annual marketing plan, product pricing and the establishment of a brand team. Amgen and Pfizer share in the agreed-upon selling and marketing expenses approved by the joint management committee. We currently pay Pfizer a
percentage of annual gross profits on our ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada attributable to all approved indications on a scale that increases as gross profits increase; however, we maintain a majority share of ENBREL profits. After
expiration of the agreement in the fourth quarter of 2013, we will be required to pay Pfizer a declining percentage of annual net ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada for three years, ranging from 12% to 10%. The amounts of such payments are
anticipated to be significantly less than what would be owed based on the terms of the current ENBREL profit share.







Glaxo Group Limited

We are in a collaboration with Glaxo for the commercialization of denosumab for osteoporosis indications in Europe,
Australia, New Zealand and Mexico (the Primary Territories). We have retained the rights to commercialize denosumab for all indications in the United States and Canada and for oncology indications in the Primary Territories. Under a related
agreement, Glaxo will commercialize denosumab for all indications in countries, excluding Japan, where we did not have a commercial presence at the commencement of the agreement, including China, Brazil, India, Taiwan and South Korea (the Expansion
Territories). In the Expansion Territories, Glaxo is responsible for all development and commercialization costs and will purchase denosumab from us to meet demand. In the future, we have the option of expanding our role in the commercialization of
denosumab in the Primary Territories and certain of the Expansion Territories. In the Primary Territories, we share equally in the commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting for expenses, including an amount
payable to us in recognition of our discovery and development of denosumab. Glaxo is also responsible for bearing a portion of the cost of certain specified development activities in the Primary Territories.

Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited

®

KRAS

Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited

We are in a collaboration
with Daiichi Sankyo, which provides Daiichi Sankyo the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize denosumab in Japan for osteoporosis, oncology and certain other indications. As part of the agreement, Amgen received exclusive worldwide rights to
certain Daiichi Sankyo intellectual property to the extent applicable to denosumab. Through collaboration committees, the parties jointly coordinate and oversee Daiichi Sankyo’s development and commercialization of denosumab in Japan.

DaVita Inc.

In November 2011, we entered into a seven-year supply agreement with DaVita, commencing January 1, 2012. Pursuant to this agreement, we will supply EPOGEN in amounts necessary to meet no less than
90% of DaVita’s and its affiliates’ requirements for ESAs used in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico. The agreement may be terminated by either party before expiration of its term in the event of certain
breaches of the agreement by the other party.

Fresenius Medical Care North America

In October 2011, the five-year supply agreement for ESAs with Fresenius Medical Care North America
expired. Effective January 1, 2012, we entered into a three-year non-exclusive supply agreement with them to supply
EPOGEN®.







Human Resources

As of December 31, 2011, Amgen had approximately 17,800 staff members, which includes approximately 300 part-time
staff members. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue attracting and retaining qualified personnel in sufficient numbers to meet our needs. None of our staff members are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have
experienced no work stoppages. We consider our staff relations to be good.

Trade secret protection for our
unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require our staff members, material consultants and scientific advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon commencement of
employment or a consulting relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or obtain access to our information.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company as of February 13, 2012, are as follows:

Mr. Kevin W. Sharer, age 63, has served as a director of the Company since November 1992. Mr. Sharer has been the Company’s Chief Executive Officer since May 2000 and has also been
Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2001. Effective as of May 23, 2012, Mr. Sharer will step down as CEO of the Company. Mr. Sharer will remain as Chairman of the Board of Directors until December 31, 2012, at which
time he will retire from the Board and the Company. From May 2000 to May 2010, Mr. Sharer served as the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer. From October 1992 to May 2000, Mr. Sharer served as President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Company. From April 1989 to October 1992, Mr. Sharer was President of the Business Markets Division of MCI Communications Corporation. From February 1984 to March 1989, Mr. Sharer held numerous executive capacities at
General Electric Company (GE). Mr. Sharer is a director of Chevron Corporation and Northrop Grumman Corporation. He is Chairman of the Board of the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History.

Mr. David W. Beier, age 63, became Senior Vice President, Global Government and Corporate Affairs in March 2008.
He joined the Company in 2003 as Senior Vice President, Global Government Affairs. Previously, Mr. Beier was a partner with the law firm of Hogan and Hartson in Washington, D.C. From 1998 to early 2001, Mr. Beier served as Chief Domestic
Policy Advisor to the Vice President of the United States. He also held positions as Vice President of Government Affairs and Public Policy for Genentech and staff counsel in the U.S. House of Representatives.

Dr. Fabrizio Bonanni, age 65, became Executive Vice President, Operations in August 2007. He served as Senior Vice
President, Manufacturing of the Company from 2004 to August 2007. Dr. Bonanni joined the Company in 1999 as Senior Vice President, Quality and Compliance, and in June 2001, he also became the Corporate Compliance Officer. Previously,
Dr. Bonanni held various management positions at Baxter International, Inc. from 1974 to 1999, including positions as Corporate Vice President, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs and Corporate Vice President, Quality System.

Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 49, has served as a director of the Company since October 2011. Mr. Bradway has
been the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer since May 2010 and will succeed to the role of Chief Executive Officer in May 2012. Mr. Bradway joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations Strategy and served as
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2007 to May 2010. Prior to joining the Company, he was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in London where he had responsibility for the firm’s banking department and corporate
finance activities in Europe and focused on healthcare.

Dr. Sean E. Harper, age 49, became Executive
Vice President, Research and Development in February 2012. Dr. Harper joined the Company in 2002, and has held leadership roles in early development, medical sciences and global regulatory and safety. Dr. Harper served as Senior Vice
President, Global Development and







Corporate Chief Medical Officer from March 2007 to February 2012. Prior to joining the Company, Dr. Harper worked for five years at Merck Research Laboratories.

Mr. Anthony C. Hooper, age 57, became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations in October 2011.
From March 2010 to October 2011, Mr. Hooper was Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations and President, U.S., Japan and Intercontinental of BMS, a pharmaceutical company. From January 2009 to March 2010, Mr. Hooper was President,
Americas of BMS. From January 2004 to January 2009, Mr. Hooper was President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals Group, a division of BMS. Prior to this, Mr. Hooper held various senior leadership positions at BMS. In his roles
at BMS, Mr. Hooper led commercial operations in mature and emerging markets. Prior to joining BMS, Mr. Hooper was Assistant Vice President of Global Marketing for Wyeth Laboratories.

Mr. Brian McNamee, age 55, became Senior Vice President, Human Resources in June 2001. From November 1999 to June
2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division of GE. From July
1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resources positions at GE.

Mr. Jonathan M.
Peacock, age 53, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2010. Prior to joining Amgen, Mr. Peacock served as Chief Financial and Administration Officer of Novartis Pharmaceuticals AG, a healthcare company based
in Switzerland, beginning in 2005. From 1998 to 2005, Mr. Peacock was a partner at McKinsey and Co., where he co-led the European Corporate Finance Practice. Mr. Peacock was also a partner at Price Waterhouse in London and New York from
1993 to 1998.

Ms. Anna S. Richo, age 51, became Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer
in June 2008. From December 2003 to June 2008, Ms. Richo served as Vice President, Law. Prior to Amgen, she spent 12 years at Baxter Healthcare Corporation in roles of increasing responsibility in law, including Vice President, Law, for
Baxter’s BioScience Division. Also, for more than five years, Ms. Richo served on the Board of Directors of Cytyc Corporation and was a member of the Audit and Finance Committees.

Mr. David J. Scott, age 59, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2004. From May
1999 to February 2004, Mr. Scott served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Medtronic, Inc. and also as Secretary from January 2000. From December 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Scott served as General Counsel of London-based United
Distillers & Vintners. Mr. Scott also served in executive roles at Grand Metropolitan plc and RJR Nabisco, Inc., and was an attorney in private practice.

Geographic Area Financial Information

For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Note 19, Segment information — Geographic information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Investor Information

Financial and other information about us is available on our website (http://www.amgen.com) (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in our website
is not intended to be a part of this filing). We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or submitting such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. In addition, we have previously filed registration
statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC’s internet address at http://www.sec.gov (This
website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing). Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be
obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.







