Item 1.BUSINESS

Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as “Amgen,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is committed to unlocking the potential of biology for patients suffering from serious illnesses by discovering, developing, manufacturing and delivering innovative human therapeutics. This approach begins by using tools like advanced human genetics to unravel the complexities of disease and understand the fundamentals of human biology.

Amgen focuses on areas of high unmet medical need and leverages its biologics manufacturing expertise to strive for solutions that improve health outcomes and dramatically improve people’s lives. A biotechnology pioneer, Amgen has grown to be one of the world’s leading independent biotechnology companies, has reached millions of patients around the world and is developing a pipeline of medicines with breakaway potential.

Amgen was incorporated in California in 1980 and became a Delaware corporation in 1987. Amgen operates in one business segment: human therapeutics.



Significant Developments

Following is a summary of significant developments affecting our business that have occurred since the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, and in early 2016.

Products/Pipeline

Cardiovascular

Corlanor®(ivabradine)

•In April 2015, we announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted approval of Corlanor®to reduce the risk of hospitalization for worsening heart failure in patients with stable, symptomatic chronic heart failure with left ventricular ejection fraction ≤35 percent, who are in sinus rhythm with resting heart rate ≥70 beats per minute and either are on maximally tolerated doses of beta blockers or have a contraindication to beta blocker use.

Repatha®(evolocumab)

•In July 2015, we announced that the European Commission (EC) granted marketing authorization for Repatha®for the treatment of high cholesterol, as an adjunct to diet:

◦In combination with statins or other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to control their low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) with maximum tolerated statin doses, or

◦Alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients who are statin intolerant or for whom a statin is contraindicated.

Repatha®is also approved in the European Union (EU) in combination with other lipid-lowering agents in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (age 12 and over). The effect of Repatha®on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined.

•In August 2015, we announced that the FDA granted approval of Repatha®as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, who require additional lowering of LDL-C; and as an adjunct to diet and other LDL-lowering therapies for the treatment of patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, who require additional lowering of LDL-C. The effect of Repatha®on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined.

•In September 2015, we announced that we submitted an application to the FDA for a single-dosing option for the monthly administration of Repatha®. The FDA has set a July 10, 2016, Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) target action date as a goal for the completion of their review of our application.

•In January 2016, we, together with our joint venture partner Astellas Pharma, Inc., announced that the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare approved Repatha®for the treatment of patients with familial hypercholesterolemia or hypercholesterolemia who have high risk of cardiovascular events and do not adequately respond to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins).

•In February 2016, we announced that the phase 3 GAUSS-3 (Goal Achievement After Utilizing an Anti-PCSK9 Antibody in Statin Intolerant Subjects-3) trial evaluating Repatha®in patients with high cholesterol who cannot tolerate statins, met its co-primary endpoints.










Inflammation

Brodalumab

•In August 2015, we terminated participation in the co-development and commercialization of brodalumab with AstraZeneca plc (AstraZeneca).

Nephrology

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)

•In February 2016, we announced that the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 ARCADE trial met its primary endpoint of reducing the incidence of red blood cell transfusions in anemic patients with low and intermediate-1 risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

Parsabiv™(etelcalcetide)*

•In September 2015, we announced that we submitted a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Parsabiv™, an intravenous calcimimetic agent, for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) in adult patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on hemodialysis.

•In November 2015, we announced that the FDA accepted for review our New Drug Application (NDA) for Parsabiv™for the treatment of SHPT in patients with CKD on hemodialysis. The FDA has set an August 24, 2016, PDUFA target action date.

Neuroscience

AMG 334

•In July 2015, we announced that we initiated phase 3 studies in episodic migraine. AMG 334 is being jointly developed with Novartis AG (Novartis).

Oncology

BLINCYTO®(blinatumomab)

•In November 2015, we announced that the EC granted conditional marketing authorization for BLINCYTO®for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-negative (Ph-) relapsed or refractory B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

•In February 2016, we announced that the phase 3 TOWER study evaluating the efficacy of BLINCYTO®versus standard of care in adult patients with Ph- relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor ALL, met its primary endpoint of improved overall survival (OS) based on the results of a prespecified interim analysis.

IMLYGIC™(talimogene laherparepvec)

•In October 2015, we announced that the FDA granted approval of IMLYGIC™for the local treatment of unresectable cutaneous, subcutaneous, and nodal lesions in patients with melanoma recurrent after initial surgery. IMLYGIC™has not been shown to improve OS or have an effect on visceral metastases.

•In December 2015, we announced that the EC approved the use of IMLYGIC™for the treatment of adults with unresectable melanoma that is regionally or distantly metastatic (Stage IIIB, IIIC and IVM1a), with no bone, brain, lung or other visceral disease.

Kyprolis®(carfilzomib)

•In April 2015, we announced the initiation of a phase 3 study with weekly dosing in relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma.

•In July 2015, we announced that the FDA approved the supplemental NDA (sNDA) for Kyprolis®in combination with Revlimid®(lenalidomide) and dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have received one to three prior lines of therapy, based on the phase 3 ASPIRE (CArfilzomib, Lenalidomide, and DexamethaSone versus Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone for the treatment of PatIents with Relapsed Multiple MyEloma) trial.

•In November 2015, we announced that the EC granted marketing authorization for Kyprolis®in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy, based on the phase 3 ASPIRE trial.



* FDA provisionally approved trade name










•In December 2015, we announced that we submitted to the EMA a Variation to the MAA to expand the indication for Kyprolis®in combination with dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy based on the data from the ENDEAVOR (RandomizEd, OpeN Label, Phase 3 Study of Carfilzomib Plus DExamethAsone Vs Bortezomib Plus DexamethasOne in Patients With Relapsed Multiple Myeloma) trial.

•In January 2016, we announced that the FDA approved the sNDA of Kyprolis®in combination with dexamethasone or with lenalidomide plus dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one to three lines of therapy. The FDA also granted full approval for Kyprolis®as a single agent for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received one or more lines of therapy. The combination with dexamethasone was approved based on the ENDEAVOR trial.

Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)

•In March 2015, we announced the Neulasta®Delivery kit, now known as the Neulasta®Onpro™kit, was available in the United States. The Neulasta®Onpro™kit includes a specially designed single-use prefilled syringe co-packaged with the new On-body Injector for Neulasta®that enablesthe healthcare provider to initiate administration of Neulasta®on the same day as chemotherapy—with delivery of the patient’s full dose of Neulasta®the day following chemotherapy administration, consistent with the Neulasta®prescribing information. This eliminates the need for patients to return to their healthcare provider the day after chemotherapy, which would otherwise be needed to receive the Neulasta®injection.

Trebananib

•In April 2015, we announced that we stopped administration of blinded investigational product in the phase 3 study of trebananib in first-line ovarian cancer based on a recommendation by the Data Safety Monitoring Committee.

Vectibix®(panitumumab)

•In April 2015, we announced that the EC approved a new use of Vectibix®as first-line treatment in combination with FOLFIRI for the treatment of adult patients with wild-typeRASmetastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC).

•In June 2015, we announced that the phase 3 study evaluating Vectibix®and best supportive care (BSC) compared to BSC alone in patients with chemorefractory wild-type KRAS (exon 2) mCRC, met its primary endpoint.

Bone health

Prolia®(denosumab)

•In June 2015, we announced that the phase 3 study evaluating the treatment effect of adjuvant Prolia®therapy in postmenopausal women with early hormone receptor positive breast cancer receiving aromatase inhibitor therapy, met its primary endpoint.

Romosozumab

•In September 2015, we and UCB, our collaboration partner in the development of romosozumab, announced that the  open label phase 3 STRUCTURE (STudy evaluating effect of RomosozUmab Compared with Teriparatide in postmenopaUsal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture pReviously treated with bisphosphonatE therapy) trial met its primary endpoint.

Biosimilars

•In September 2015, we and Allergan plc (Allergan), our collaboration partner in the development and commercialization of biosimilar candidate ABP 215, announced that a phase 3 study of ABP 215 compared with Avastin®(bevacizumab) met its primary and secondary endpoints.

•In January 2016, we announced that the FDA accepted for review our Biologics License Application (BLA) for ABP 501, a biosimilar candidate to Humira®(adalimumab). The FDA has set a September 25, 2016, Biosimilar User Fee Act target action date. In addition, in December 2015, we announced that we submitted an MAA to the EMA.










Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products

The largest concentration of our sales and marketing forces are based in the United States and Europe. Additionally, we continue to expand the commercialization and marketing of our products into new geographic territories, including parts of Latin America, the Middle East and Asia. This expansion can occur either via establishing our own affiliate, acquiring existing third party businesses or product rights, or in partnering with third parties. Use of our own sales and marketing forces versus a third-party varies across these markets. This typically depends on several factors including the nature of entry into the new market, the size of opportunity and the operational capabilities. Together with our partners, we market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies.

In the United States, we sell primarily to pharmaceutical wholesale distributors who we utilize as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers. We also market certain products directly to consumers through direct-to-consumer print and television advertising, as well as through multi-channel marketing. For further discussion, see Government Regulation—Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. Outside the United States, we sell principally to healthcare providers and/or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors depending on the distribution practice in each country.

Our product sales to three large wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years endedDecember 31, 2015,2014and2013. On a combined basis, these wholesalers accounted for approximately97%, 94% and 93% of our U.S. gross product sales, respectively, and approximately81%, 77% and 75% of our worldwide gross revenues, respectively. We monitor the financial condition of our larger customers, and we limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits and, in certain circumstances, by requiring letters of credit.

For financial information related to our one business segment, see Part IV—Consolidated Statements of Income, Consolidated Balance Sheets and Note 19, Segment information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our products are marketed around the world with the United States being our largest market. The following chart shows our product sales by principal product and by geography for the years endedDecember 31, 2015,2014and2013.












Enbrel®(etanercept)

We market ENBREL primarily in the United States. It was launched in 1998 and is used primarily in the indications for the treatment of adult patients with the following conditions:

•moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis,

•chronic moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis patients who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy, and

•active psoriatic arthritis.

Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) has the rights to market and sell ENBREL outside the United States and Canada.

Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)

We market Neulasta®, a pegylated protein based on the filgrastim molecule, primarily in the United States and Europe. Neulasta®was launched in 2002, and is used primarily in the indication to help reduce the chance of infection due to a low white blood cell count, in people with certain types of cancer (non-myeloid) who receive anti-cancer medicines (chemotherapy) that can cause fever and a low blood cell count. In March 2015, the Neulasta®Onpro™kit became available in the United States.

ESAs (erythropoiesis-stimulating agents)

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)

We market Aranesp®primarily in Europe and in the United States. It was launched in 2001, and is indicated for the treatment of anemia caused by CKD (in both patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis). Aranesp®is also indicated for the treatment of anemia due to concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy in patients with non-myeloid malignancies, and when chemotherapy will be used for at least two months after starting Aranesp®.

EPOGEN®(epoetin alfa)

We market EPOGEN®in the United States for dialysis patients. It was launched in 1989, and we market it for the indication to treat a lower-than-normal number of red blood cells (anemia) caused by CKD in patients on dialysis to lessen the need for red blood cell transfusions. The majority of our sales are to two large dialysis providers.

Aranesp®and EPOGEN®compete with each other in the United States, primarily in the dialysis setting.

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)

We market cinacalcet as Sensipar®primarily in the United States and as Mimpara®primarily in Europe. It was launched in 2004 and is used primarily in the indication for the treatment of SHPT in adult patients with CKD on dialysis.

XGEVA®(denosumab)

We market XGEVA®primarily in the United States and Europe. XGEVA®was launched in the United States in 2010, and is used primarily in the indication for the prevention of skeletal-related events (SREs) (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors. It is not indicated for the prevention of SREs in patients with multiple myeloma. XGEVA®was launched in Europe in 2011, and is used primarily in the indication for the prevention of SREs in adults with bone metastases from solid tumors.

Prolia®(denosumab)

We market Prolia®primarily in the United States and Europe. It contains the same active ingredient as XGEVA®but is approved for different indications, patient populations, doses and frequencies of administration. Prolia®was launched in the United States and Europe in 2010. In the United States, it is used primarily in the indication for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture, or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. In Europe, Prolia®is used primarily for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fractures.

NEUPOGEN®(filgrastim)

We market NEUPOGEN®, a recombinant-methionyl human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), primarily in the United States, Canada and Europe. NEUPOGEN®was launched in 1991, and is used primarily in the indication to help reduce the chance of infection due to a low white blood cell count, in people with certain types of cancer (non-myeloid) who receive anti-cancer medicines (chemotherapy) that can cause fever and a low blood cell count.

Other Marketed Products

We market several other products including Vectibix®(panitumumab), Nplate®(romiplostim), Kyprolis®(carfilzomib), BLINCYTO®(blinatumomab), Repatha®(evolocumab), Corlanor®(ivabradine) and IMLYGIC™(talimogene laherparepvec).










Patents

The following table describes our outstanding material patents for the indicated product by territory, general subject matter and latest expiry date. Certain of the European patents are the subject of supplemental protection certificates that provide additional protection for the product in certain European countries beyond the dates listed in the table (see footnotes).

One or more patents with the same or earlier expiry date may fall under the same “general subject matter” and are not separately listed.





ProductTerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpiration

Enbrel®(etanercept)U.S.Methods of treating psoriasis8/13/2019

U.S.Aqueous formulation and methods of treatment using the formulation6/8/2023

U.S.Fusion protein, and pharmaceutical compositions11/22/2028

U.S.DNA encoding fusion protein, and methods of making fusion protein4/24/2029

Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)EuropePegylated G-CSF(1)2/8/2015

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)U.S.Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins5/15/2024

EuropeGlycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins(1)8/16/2014

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)U.S.Methods of treatment12/14/2016

U.S.Calcium receptor-active molecules3/8/2018

EuropeCalcium receptor-active molecules(1)10/23/2015

Prolia®/XGEVA®(denosumab)U.S.RANKL antibodies; and methods of use(2)12/22/2017

U.S.Methods of treatment6/25/2022

U.S.Nucleic acids encoding RANKL antibodies, and methods of producing RANKL antibodies11/30/2023

U.S.RANKL antibodies including sequences2/19/2025

EuropeRANKL antibodies(1)12/22/2017

EuropeMedical use of RANKL antibodies(1)4/15/2018

EuropeRANKL antibodies including epitope binding2/23/2021

EuropeRANKL antibodies including sequences(1)6/25/2022

Vectibix®(panitumumab)U.S.Human monoclonal antibodies to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFr)4/8/2020

EuropeHuman monoclonal antibodies to EGFr(1)5/5/2018

Nplate®(romiplostim)U.S.Thrombopoietic compounds1/19/2022

EuropeThrombopoietic compounds(1)10/22/2019

Kyprolis®(carfilzomib)U.S.Compositions and compounds12/7/2027

U.S.Methods of treatment4/14/2025

EuropeCompositions, compounds and methods of treatment8/8/2025

BLINCYTO®(blinatumomab)U.S.Bifunctional polypeptides(3)4/21/2019

U.S.Method of administration9/28/2027

EuropeBifunctional polypeptides11/26/2024

EuropeMethod of administration11/29/2026

Repatha®(evolocumab)U.S.Antibodies(3)10/25/2029

U.S.Methods of treatment10/8/2030

IMLYGIC™(talimogene laherparepvec)U.S.Compositions and method of treatment(3)1/22/2021

EuropeComposition and uses1/22/2021

(1)A European patent with this subject matter may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates have been issued related to the indicated products for patents in at least the following countries:

•pegfilgrastim - France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in August 2017










•darbepoetin alfa - France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in June 2016

•denosumab - France, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, expiring in2025

•cinacalcet - France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2019

•panitumumab - France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2022

•romiplostim - France, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2024

(2)The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued a Notice of Final Determination that a patent with this subject matter is eligible for patent term extension with an expiry of September 17, 2021.

(3)A patent with this subject matter may be entitled to patent term extension in the United States.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. Our competitors market products or are actively engaged in research and development (R&D) in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. Our competitive positions may be based on, among other things, safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, patient convenience/delivery devices, price, reimbursement, access and timing of market entry and patent position and expiration.

Certain of the existing patents on our principal products have recently expired and we face new and increasing competition, including from biosimilars. We may also compete against biosimilar or generic versions of our competitors’ products. A biosimilar is another version of a biological product for which marketing approval is sought or has been obtained based on a demonstration that it is “similar” to the original reference product. See Government Regulation. We expect the adverse impact from biosimilars to be more like branded biologics than generic small molecules. We expect patients, providers and payers to place a high value on the reputation, reliability and safety of biosimilars. Zarxio™, a biosimilar version of NEUPOGEN®from Sandoz, a Novartis company (Sandoz), which launched in the United States on September 3, 2015, is the first biosimilar entrant into the U.S. market. Companies are developing biosimilar versions of EPOGEN®and Neulasta®, along with additional biosimilar versions of NEUPOGEN®. We expect our products to continue to generate substantial sales and cash flow for years to come even after competitors enter the market. We are prepared to compete and will leverage the experience that we have had in the United States versus branded competition as well as our considerable experience competing against epoetin alfa and filgrastim biosimilars in Europe.

The introduction of new products, the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or the emergence of new information about existing products may result in increased competition for our marketed products, even for those protected by patents, or in a reduction of the price that we receive from selling our products. In addition, the development of new treatment options or standards of care may reduce the use of our products or may limit the utility and application of ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates (as used in this document, clinical trials may include prospective clinical trials, observational studies, registries and other studies). For further discussion, see Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our products face substantial competition and Item 1A. Risk Factors—We currently face competition from biosimilars and expect to face increasing competition in the future.

The following table reflects our significant competitors and is not exhaustive.

ProductTerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorsENBRELU.S. & CanadaREMICADE®Janssen Biotech, Inc. (Janssen)(1)/Merck & Company, Inc. (Merck)U.S. & CanadaHUMIRA®AbbVie Inc.U.S. & CanadaSTELARA®(2)Janssen(1)Neulasta®EuropeLonquex®Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Teva)EuropeFilgrastim biosimilars(3)VariousAranesp®U.S.PROCRIT®(4)Janssen(1)EuropeEPREX®/ERYPO®Janssen-Cilag(1)EuropeEpoetin alfa biosimilars(3)VariousU.S. & EuropeMIRCERA®(5)Galenica Group (Galenica)/F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (Roche)EPOGEN®U.S.MIRCERA®(5)Galenica/RocheSensipar®(6)/Mimpara®U.S. & EuropeActive Vitamin D analogsVarious










ProductTerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorsXGEVA®U.S. & EuropeZoledronate genericsVariousProlia®U.S. & EuropeAlendronate genericsVariousU.S. & EuropeRaloxifene genericsVariousU.S. & EuropeZoledronate genericsVariousNEUPOGEN®U.S.Granix®TevaU.S.Zarxio™SandozEuropeFilgrastim biosimilars(3)VariousVectibix®U.S. & EuropeErbitux®Eli Lilly/Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS); Merck KGaAU.S. & EuropeAvastin®Genentech, Inc. (a Member of the Roche Group)Nplate®U.S. & EuropePromacta®/Revolade®NovartisKyprolis®(8)U.S.VELCADE®Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.(7)U.S.REVLIMID®Celgene Corporation (Celgene)U.S.POMALYST®CelgeneRepatha®U.S. & EuropePRALUENT®Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

(1)A subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson (J&J).

(2)Dermatology only.

(3)Approved via the EU biosimilar regulatory pathway.

(4)PROCRIT®competes with Aranesp®in the supportive cancer care and pre-dialysis settings.

(5)MIRCERA®competes with Aranesp®in the nephrology segment only.

(6)Teva and Barr Pharmaceuticals have received tentative approval from the FDA for generic versions of Sensipar®that could compete with Sensipar®in the future. There is an injunction prohibiting them from commercializing in the United States until expiration of the Sensipar®patents.

(7)A wholly-owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited.

(8)Kyprolis®operates in a rapidly growing market in a new therapeutic area where competition is changing rapidly.



Reimbursement

Sales of our principal products are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. In many markets around the world, these payers, including government health systems, private health insurers and other organizations, continue to be focused on reducing the cost of healthcare. Their efforts have only intensified as a result of rising healthcare costs and economic challenges. Drugs, and specialty drugs, such as our products, remain a focus for cost containment by these parties. Government and private payers around the world are being more restrictive regarding the use of our and other biopharmaceutical products, while demanding a greater level of clinical evidence to support the benefit such products bring to patients and the broader healthcare system.

Recent developments have intensified scrutiny of biopharmaceutical companies in the United States. Pricing practices of a few biopharmaceutical companies have increased public media and government scrutiny of our entire industry. Such pricing practices provide greater incentive for government and private payers to limit or regulate the price of drug products and services. At the same time, value assessments of new technology, previously used predominantly outside the United States, are having an impact in the U.S. healthcare environment. Healthcare provider and independent organizations are creating their own value assessments of biopharmaceutical drugs for comparison to manufacturer pricing. While these organizations do not set drug prices, they seek to influence pricing and payer and provider decision-making by making their assessments public. These developments create greater pressure on the access, pricing and sales of our products.

In the United States, healthcare providers are reimbursed for covered services and products they deliver through Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs, as well as through private payers. Pharmacies are also reimbursed in a similar manner for drug products they dispense. We are required to provide specified rebates or discounts on the products we sell to certain government funded programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which have increased over time. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), enacted in 2010, increased many of the mandatory discounts and rebates required of us and










imposed a new Branded Prescription Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Importers (BPD) fee payable each year by us and other manufacturers. In addition, Medicare currently requires a 2% reduction to Medicare payment rates to providers due to federal budget cuts referred to as “sequestration”. Such changes have had, and are expected to continue to have, a material adverse impact on our business.

Further efforts to reduce government healthcare program costs could also affect us and our industry. Examples of proposals that have been discussed and debated but not yet enacted include state ballot initiatives designed to require pharmaceutical manufacturers to publicly report proprietary pricing information or state legislative efforts to place a maximum price ceiling, or cap, on pharmaceutical products purchased by state agencies. Other legislative and regulatory actions that would have a significant impact on Amgen include: changes to how the Medicare program covers and reimburses current and future drugs, including for patients with End-Stage Renal Disease; changes in the Federal payment rate or new rebate requirements for covered drugs and policies for payment; and coverage and payment for biosimilars, including the current Medicare biosimilar coverage and payment policies that enable greater utilization versus the branded originators, or other policies that provide easier substitution or reimbursement advantages.

In the U.S. private sector, healthcare providers and payers remain focused on reducing healthcare costs. They continue to institute various cost reduction and containment measures such as more limited benefit designs, tiering of co-pays, stricter usage requirements and higher deductible benefit plans that lower healthcare costs altogether or shift a greater proportion of costs to patients. In the retail pharmacy sector, where the majority of our sales for ENBREL, Sensipar

®

and Repatha

®

occur, pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) and insurers are implementing more rigorous utilization and pricing tools that can reduce Amgen product usage or revenues. PBMs are third-party administrators of prescription drug programs for large employers, health plans and government programs. These customers, known as “plan sponsors,” increasingly rely on PBMs to help administer their plans in a cost effective manner and negotiate contracts on their behalf. Consolidation in the market has resulted in three PBMs overseeing approximately 75% and three insurers overseeing approximately 43%, respectively, of total covered lives in the United States. This has allowed each greater market power and negotiating leverage to influence or impact patient drug usage and price. In the case of PBMs, this can include mandating stricter utilization criteria or excluding drugs from their formulary altogether in favor of competitor drugs or alternative treatments. Formulary exclusion effectively encourages the patient and provider to seek alternative treatment or pay 100% of the cost of the drug.

Generally, in countries outside the United States, government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for drugs and biologics. With increased budgetary constraints, payers in many countries employ a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure. These measures can include mandatory price controls, price referencing, therapeutic reference pricing, increasing mandates or incentives for generic substitution and biosimilar usage, and government-mandated price cuts. In addition, healthcare reform and related legislative proposals have targeted the pharmaceutical sector with multiple mechanisms to reduce government healthcare expenditures. We expect that countries will continue to take aggressive actions to reduce expenditures on drugs and biologics. Similarly, fiscal constraints may also impact the extent to which countries are willing to approve new innovative therapies and/or allow access to new technologies. For example, many Health Technology Assessment (HTA) organizations use formal economic metrics such as cost-effectiveness to determine coverage and reimbursement of new therapies, and these organizations are proliferating in established and emerging markets.

These dynamics and recent developments serve to create pressure on the pricing and potential usage of our products, and the industry as a whole. We remain focused on addressing unmet medical needs. We believe the pricing of our medicines reflects the holistic value delivered to patients, providers and payers and is aligned with the investment and risk we undertake to develop medicines as well as fund future scientific innovation. We continue to adapt to these dynamics to successfully bring our medicines to patients. This includes working more closely with payers to address their concerns, delivering robust supporting data packages, and developing mutually beneficial contracting structures. As such, we believe we can successfully deliver the value of our medicines.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures may affect our profitability and Item 1A. Risk Factors—Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.












Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials

Manufacturing

The products we manufacture include both biologics and small molecule drugs. The majority of our products are biologics which are produced in living cells and are inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory-scale processes into reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. For additional information regarding manufacturing facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

We perform most of our bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish activities in our Puerto Rico facility and also conduct finish activities in the Netherlands. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers to supplement the bulk, formulation, fill, and/or packaging of certain Amgen principal products, including ENBREL, Neulasta®,XGEVA®, Sensipar®/Mimpara®,Prolia®,as well as Kyprolis®.

Clinical bulk, formulation, fill and finish manufacturing facilities are operated primarily in our Thousand Oaks, California, and West Greenwich, Rhode Island locations. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers for certain clinical products.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and the global supply of our products.

Distribution

We operate distribution centers in the United States—principally in Kentucky and California—and the Netherlands for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and clinical products. We also use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our products worldwide.

Other

In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities noted above, our operations in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Netherlands include key manufacturing support functions, including quality control, process development, procurement, production scheduling and warehousing. Certain of those manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated by the FDA as well as other international regulatory agencies. See Government Regulation—Regulation of Manufacturing Standards.

Manufacturing Initiatives

We believe we are a leader in manufacturing biologics and our manufacturing capabilities are a competitive advantage. We have multiple ongoing initiatives that are designed to extend this advantage by optimizing our manufacturing network and/or mitigating manufacturing risks while continuing to ensure adequate supply of our products. These initiatives include the licensure of a new formulation and fill facility at our Puerto Rico site; and as part of a risk mitigation strategy, full licensure of our formulation, fill and finish site in Ireland to manufacture our products. Both of these new facilities will require qualification and licensure by various regulatory authorities.

In 2015, we initiated the drug substance conformance campaign to facilitate licensure at our monoclonal antibody manufacturing facility in Singapore. Upon licensure, this facility will expand our capability to manufacture monoclonal antibodies utilizing new technology and innovation. The facility will be fully reconfigurable, providing efficient manufacturing capabilities to help ensure supply of our products worldwide. We have also begun construction on an additional new facility at the site in Singapore to enable the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient for Kyprolis®.

In addition to these initiatives, we have projects designed to optimize manufacturing asset utilization, to continue our use of third-party contract manufacturers and to maintain a state of regulatory compliance. This includes manufacturing network consolidation initiatives as well as process improvements surrounding manufacturing. See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.

Raw Materials and Medical Devices

Certain raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the commercial and/or clinical manufacturing of our products are provided by and are the proprietary products of unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only sources for such materials. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by inventory management, relationship management and evaluation of alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial condition of certain suppliers and their ability to supply our needs. See Item 1A. Risk Factors—We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.












We perform various procedures to assist in authenticating the source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used in the manufacture of our products, which include verification of the country of origin. These procedures are incorporated into the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract manufacturers perform.



Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of our products and our ongoing R&D activities. In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies. Compliance with these standards is complex and failure to comply with any of these standards can result in significant implications. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of factors that can adversely impact our development and marketing of commercial products including global regulatory implications.

Regulation in the United States

In the United States, the Public Health Service Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the production, research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion, reporting of certain payments and other transfers of value, and distribution of our products.

Clinical Development and Product Approval.Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and risky; and failure rates are high. Product development cycles are typically very long - approximately 10 to 15 years from discovery to market. A potential new medicine must undergo many years of preclinical and clinical testing to establish its safety and efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels and with an acceptable risk-benefit profile.

After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, we file an Investigational New Drug Application (IND) with the FDA to begin human testing. Typically, we undertake an FDA-designated three-phase human clinical testing program.

•In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product candidates in a small number of human subjects.

•In phase 2, we conduct clinical trials to investigate side effect profiles and the efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

•In phase 3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

The FDA monitors the progress of each trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion, re-evaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based on the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s risk-benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in the trial. The results of preclinical and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for biologic products or an NDA for small molecule products. We cannot market or promote a new product until our marketing application has been approved by the FDA.

Approval of Biosimilars

.



Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. The FDA regulates the marketing and promotion of products. Our product promotion for approved product indications must comply with the statutory standards of the FDCA, and the FDA’s implementing regulations and standards. The FDA’s review of marketing and promotional activities encompasses, but is not limited to, direct-to-consumer advertising, healthcare provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional activities involving the Internet. The FDA may also review industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities that make representations regarding product safety or efficacy in a










promotional context. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations also can result in adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the U.S. Congress or other legislators. Additionally, as described below, such failure may lead to additional liability under U.S. health care fraud and abuse laws.

Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. The FDA regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products prior to providing approval to market products. If after receiving approval from the FDA, we make a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA conducts regular, periodic visits to re-inspect our equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial approval.

Regulation of Combination Products. Combination products are defined by the FDA to include products comprised of two or more regulated components (e.g., a biologic and/or drug and a device). Biologics/Drugs and devices each have their own regulatory requirements, and combination products may have additional requirements. A number of our marketed products meet this definition and are regulated under this framework, and we expect that a number of our pipeline product candidates will be evaluated for regulatory approval under this framework as well.

Regulation Outside the United States

In the EU countries, Switzerland, Canada, Australia and Japan, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar in principle to those in the United States. In the EU, depending on the type of drug for which approval is sought, there are currently two potential tracks for marketing approval, a decentralized and centralized procedure. In the decentralized procedure, identical applications for marketing authorization are submitted simultaneously to the national regulatory agencies.

The application is assessed by an initial national agency (Reference Member State) and the subsequent countries that the applicant chooses to seek approval (Concerned Member States).

Regulatory review is led by the Reference Member State and acknowledged by the Concerned Member States leading to a single approval in all relevant countries. In the centralized procedure, which is required of all products derived from biotechnology, a company submits a single MAA to the EMA, which conducts a thorough product evaluation, drawing from its scientific resources across Europe. If the drug product is proven to fulfill the requirements for quality, safety and efficacy, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopts a positive opinion, which is transmitted to the EC for final approval of the marketing authorization. While the EC generally follows the CHMP

’

s opinion, it is not bound to do so. Subsequent commercialization is enabled by country-by-country reimbursement approval. In Japan, additional local clinical trials may be required as part of the drug registration process, which can add to the drug registration timelines.

In the EU, biosimilars have been approved under a specialized pathway of the centralized procedure. As with the U.S. pathway, sponsors of a biosimilar may seek and obtain regulatory approval based in part on the non-clinical and clinical trial data of an originator product to which the biosimilar has been demonstrated to be “similar.”

Other countries such as Russia, Turkey and those in Latin America and the Middle East have review processes and data requirements similar to those of the EU, and in some cases rely on prior marketing approval from U.S. or EU regulatory authorities. The regulatory process in these countries may include manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product upon importation and other domestic requirements.

In Asia, a number of countries such as China, South Korea and Taiwan may require local clinical trials as part of the drug registration process in addition to the global clinical trials which can add to the drug registration timelines. In most Asian markets, registration timelines are dependent on marketing approval in the United States or EU. However, in some emerging markets in Asia, such as China, the regulatory landscape is evolving and the regulatory timelines can be less predictable.

Post-approval Phase

After approval, we continue to monitor adverse events reported following the use of our products through post marketing routine pharmacovigilance surveillance and studies when applicable. We report such events to the appropriate regulatory agencies, as required per local regulations for individual cases and aggregate reports. We proactively monitor (according to good pharmacovigilance practices) and ensure the implementation of signal detection, assessment and communication of adverse events that may be associated with the use of our products. We may also be required by regulatory agencies to conduct further clinical trials on our marketed products as a condition of their approval or to provide additional information on safety and efficacy. Health authorities, including the FDA, have authority to mandate labeling changes to products at any point in a product’s lifecycle based on new safety information or as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products.










Health authorities, including the FDA, also have the authority, before or after approval, to require companies to implement a risk management program for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. Each risk management program is unique and varies depending on the specific factors required. In the United States, a risk management program is known as a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) and we currently have REMS for our ESAs, Prolia®, Nplate®and BLINCYTO®.

Other Regulation

We are also subject to various laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. False claims laws prohibit knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Liability under the false claims laws may also arise when a violation of certain laws or regulations related to the underlying products (for example, violations regarding improper promotional activity or unlawful payments) contributes to the submission of a false claim.

On December 19, 2012, Amgen announced that it had finalized a settlement agreement with the U.S. government and various other parties regarding allegations that Amgen’s promotional, contracting, sales and marketing activities and arrangements caused the submission of various false claims under the Federal Civil False Claims Act and various State False Claims Acts. In connection with entering into the settlement agreement, Amgen also entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that requires Amgen to maintain its corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that in the future our practices might be further challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws.

Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations.

Our business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and/or regulations.












Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates

We focus our R&D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of serious illness in the areas of oncology/hematology, cardiovascular disease, inflammation, bone health, nephrology and neuroscience. We take a modality-independent approach to R&D with a focus on biologics. Our discovery research programs may therefore yield targets that lead to the development of human therapeutics delivered as large molecules, small molecules, or other combination or new modalities. For the years ended December 31,2015,2014and2013, our R&D expenses were$4.1 billion,$4.3 billionand$4.1 billion, respectively.

We have major R&D centers in several locations throughout the United States (including Thousand Oaks and San Francisco, California and Cambridge, Massachusetts), Iceland and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller research centers and development facilities globally. See Item 2. Properties.

We conduct clinical trial activities using both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial service providers. To increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we have opened clinical sites and will continue to open clinical sites and to enroll patients in a number of geographic locations. See Government Regulation—Clinical Development and Product Approval for a discussion of government regulation over clinical development. Also see Item 1A. Risk Factors—We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications.

Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R&D in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. For example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, which may limit the number of available patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product candidates is significantly dependent on the timing of entry into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance, thereby contributing to the product’s eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market will be important to our competitive position.

In addition to product candidates and marketed products generated from our internal R&D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D arrangements with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. In pursuing these R&D arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities, we face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed products from those entities performing the R&D.

The following table is a selection of certain of our product candidates by phase of development in our therapeutic areas of focus as of February 15, 2016, unless otherwise indicated. Additional product candidate information can be found on our website at www.amgen.com. The website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing. The information in this section does not include other, non-registrational clinical trials that we may conduct for purposes other than for submission to regulatory agencies for their approval of a new product indication. We may conduct non-registrational clinical trials for various reasons including to evaluate real-world outcomes or to collect additional safety information with the use of our products. In addition, the table does not include the biosimilar products we are developing, which are discussed later in this section.












MoleculeDisease/ConditionPhase 3 ProgramsAMG 334Episodic migraineAranesp®Myelodysplastic syndromesBLINCYTO®ALLENBRELPsoriatic arthritis;Rheumatoid arthritis remissionIMLYGIC™Metastatic melanomaKyprolis®Multiple myelomaParsabiv™SHPT in patients with CKD receiving dialysisProlia®Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosisRepatha®HyperlipidemiaRomosozumabPostmenopausal osteoporosis;Male osteoporosisVectibix®mCRCXGEVA®Delay or prevention of bone metastases in breast cancer;Cancer-related bone damage in patients with multiple myelomaPhase 2 ProgramsAMG 157Asthma;Atopic dermatitisAMG 181Inflammatory bowel diseasesAMG 334Chronic migraineAMG 520Alzheimer’s diseaseAMG 899DyslipidemiaBLINCYTO®Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)Omecamtiv mecarbilHeart failureXGEVA®Metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)Phase 1 ProgramsAMG 211Various cancer typesAMG 224Multiple myelomaAMG 228Solid tumorsAMG 232Various cancer typesAMG 301MigraineAMG 319Hematologic malignanciesAMG 330Acute myeloid leukemiaAMG 357Autoimmune diseasesAMG 557Systemic lupus erythematosusAMG 581SchizophreniaAMG 592Inflammatory diseasesAMG 820Various cancer typesKyprolis®Small-cell lung cancerOprozomibHematologic malignancies












Phase 3clinical trials investigate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study; typically performed with registrational intent.Phase 2clinical trials investigate side effect profiles and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.Phase 1clinical trials investigate safety and proper dose ranges of a product candidate in a small number of human subjects.

Phase 3 Product Candidate Program Changes

As of February 12, 2015, we had 15 phase 3 programs. As of February 15, 2016, we had 15 phase 3 programs, as three programs initiated or advanced to phase 3 trials, and three programs were terminated or concluded. These changes are set forth in the following table:

MoleculeDisease / ConditionProgram ChangeAMG 334Episodic migraineAdvanced to phase 3BrodalumabPsoriasis;Terminated our participationPsoriatic arthritisTerminated our participationENBRELPsoriatic arthritis;Initiated phase 3 studyRheumatoid arthritis remissionInitiated phase 3 studyTrebananibFirst-line ovarian cancerTerminated

Phase 3 Product Candidate Patent Information

The following table describes our outstanding composition of matter patents that have issued thus far for our product candidates in phase 3 development that have yet to be approved for any indication. Patents for products already approved for one or more indications but currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials for additional indications are previously described. See Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Patents.

MoleculeTerritoryGeneral Subject MatterEstimated Expiration*AMG 334U.S.Polypeptides2031Parsabiv™U.S.Compound2030RomosozumabU.S.Polypeptides2026EuropePolypeptides2026

*Patent expiration estimates are based on issued patents, which may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors. The patent expiration estimates do not include any term adjustments, extensions or supplemental protection certificates that may be obtained in the future and extend these dates. Corresponding patent applications are pending in other jurisdictions. Additional patents may be filed or issued and may provide additional exclusivity for the product candidate or its use.

Phase 3 and 2 Program Descriptions

The following text provides additional information about selected product candidates that have advanced into human clinical trials.

AMG 334

AMG 334 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the receptor for calcitonin gene-related peptide. It is being evaluated for the prophylaxis of migraine. AMG 334 is being jointly developed with Novartis.

Phase 3 studies in episodic migraine are ongoing, and a phase 2 study in chronic migraine is ongoing.

Aranesp®

Aranesp®is a recombinant human protein agonist of the erythropoietin receptor.

In February 2016, we announced that the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 ARCADE trial met its primary endpoint of reducing the incidence of red blood cell transfusions in anemic patients with low and intermediate-1 risk MDS.














BLINCYTO®

BLINCYTO®is an anti-CD19 x anti-CD3 (BiTE®) bispecific antibody construct.

In February 2016, we announced that the phase 3 TOWER study evaluating the efficacy of BLINCYTO®versus standard of care in adult patients with Ph- relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor ALL, met its primary endpoint of improved OS based on the results of a prespecified interim analysis.

A phase 3 study in pediatric patients with high-risk first relapse B-precursor ALL is ongoing. Phase 2 studies in adult patients with relapsed/refractory Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) and minimal residual disease of ALL are ongoing. A phase 2 study in adult patients with DLBCL is ongoing.

Denosumab

Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits RANKL.

Prolia®

A phase 3 study of Prolia®for the treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis is ongoing.

XGEVA®

Phase 3 studies for the delay or prevention of bone metastases in patients with adjuvant breast cancer and prevention of SREs in patients with multiple myeloma are ongoing. A phase 2 study in NSCLC is ongoing.

ENBREL

ENBREL is a fusion protein that inhibits tumor necrosis factor.

A phase 3 study to evaluate ENBREL as a monotherapy for psoriatic arthritis treatment is ongoing. A phase 3 study to evaluate ENBREL as a monotherapy in maintaining remission in rheumatoid arthritis is ongoing.

IMLYGIC™

IMLYGIC™is an oncolytic immunotherapy derived from HSV-1.

A phase 1b/3 study to evaluate IMLYGIC™in combination with Merck’s anti-PD-1 therapy, KEYTRUDA®(pembrolizumab), in patients with mid- to late-stage metastatic melanoma is ongoing.

Kyprolis®

Kyprolis®is a proteasome inhibitor.

In December 2015, we announced that we submitted to the EMA a Variation to the MAA to expand the indication for Kyprolis®in combination with dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy based on the data from the ENDEAVOR trial.

A phase 3 study, CLARION, evaluating Kyprolis®in combination with melphalan and prednisone compared to bortezomib, melphalan and prednisone in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma is ongoing. A phase 3 study, ARROW (RAndomized, Open-label, Phase 3 Study in Subjects with Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma Receiving Carfilzomib in Combination with Dexamethasone, Comparing Once-Weekly versus Twice-weekly Carfilzomib Dosing), with weekly dosing in relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma is also underway.

A phase 1b/2 study in small-cell lung cancer is ongoing.

Parsabiv™

Parsabiv™is a peptide agonist of the human cell surface CaSR. It is being evaluated as an intravenously administered treatment of SHPT.

In September 2015, we announced that we submitted an MAA to the EMA for Parsabiv™,for the treatment of SHPT in adult patients with CKD on hemodialysis.

In November 2015, we announced that the FDA has accepted for review our NDA for Parsabiv™for the treatment of SHPT in adult patients with CKD on hemodialysis.












Repatha®

Repatha®is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits PCSK9.

In September 2015, we announced that we submitted an application to the FDA for a single-dosing option for the monthly administration of Repatha®. The PDUFA target action date is July 10, 2016.

In February 2016, we announced that the phase 3 GAUSS-3 trial evaluating Repatha®in patients with high cholesterol who cannot tolerate statins, met its co-primary endpoints.

Additional phase 3 studies to evaluate Repatha®for cardiovascular outcomes, on cognitive function, in subjects with genetic LDL disorders, and with coronary imaging are ongoing.

Romosozumab

Romosozumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of sclerostin. It is being evaluated as a treatment for osteoporosis. Romosozumab is being developed in collaboration with UCB.

In September 2015, we and UCB announced that the open label phase 3 STRUCTURE trial met its primary endpoint.

Phase 3 studies for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and men with osteoporosis are ongoing.

Vectibix®

Vectibix®is a human monoclonal antibody antagonist of the EGFr.

In June 2015, we announced that results of a phase 3 study evaluating Vectibix®and BSC met its primary endpoint, demonstrating a statistically significant improvement in OS in patients with chemorefractory wild-type KRAS (exon 2) mCRC compared to those patients treated with BSC alone.

AMG 157

AMG 157 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of TSLP. It is being evaluated as a treatment for asthma and atopic dermatitis, with phase 2 studies ongoing. AMG 157 is being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca.

AMG 181

AMG 181 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of alpha4/beta7. It is being evaluated as a treatment for ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease, with phase 2 studies ongoing. AMG 181 is being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca.

AMG 520

AMG 520 is a small molecule inhibitor of BACE. It is being evaluated for the prevention of Alzheimer’s disease, with phase 2 studies ongoing. AMG 520 is being jointly developed in collaboration with Novartis.

AMG 899

AMG 899 is a small molecule CETP inhibitor. It is being evaluated for the treatment of dyslipidemia and has completed certain phase 2 studies.

Omecamtiv mecarbil

Omecamtiv mecarbil is a small molecule activator of cardiac myosin. It is being evaluated for the treatment of heart failure. We are developing this product in collaboration with Cytokinetics, Inc. (Cytokinetics).

In October 2015, we announced that phase 2 data in patients with chronic heart failure showed statistically significant improvements in several measures of cardiac function.












Amgen Development of Biosimilars

We continue to collaborate with Allergan to develop and commercialize, on a worldwide basis, four oncology antibody biosimilar medicines. The products our collaboration is pursuing include biosimilar versions of bevacizumab (Avastin®), trastuzumab (Herceptin®), rituximab (Rituxan®/ Mabthera®) and cetuximab (Erbitux®).

We are also working to develop biosimilar versions of adalimumab (HUMIRA®) and infliximab (REMICADE®), in addition to three other biosimilar molecules. Our biosimilar product candidates are in varying stages of clinical development as described in the following table:

BiosimilarStatusadalimumab (HUMIRA®)BLA accepted by FDA for reviewMAA submitted to EMAbevacizumab (Avastin®)Phase 3 NSCLC study met primary and key secondary endpointstrastuzumab (Herceptin®)Phase 3 breast cancer study ongoinginfliximab (REMICADE®)Phase 1 completed



Business Relationships

From time to time, we enter into business relationships, including joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for the R&D, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and/or product candidates. In addition, we also acquire product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D collaborations with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These arrangements generally provide for non-refundable, upfront license fees; development and commercial performance milestone payments; cost sharing; royalty payments and/or profit sharing. The activities under these collaboration agreements are performed with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success, and each is unique in nature.

Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require counterparties to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of the business relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or unlawfully obtain access to our information.

Kirin-Amgen, Inc.

Kirin-Amgen, Inc. (K-A) is a 50-50 joint venture with Kirin Holdings Company, Limited (Kirin). K-A develops and then out-licenses to third parties certain product rights which have been transferred to this joint venture from Amgen and Kirin.

K-A has given us exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and pegfilgrastim in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, all Central American, South American, Middle Eastern and African countries and certain countries in Asia; (ii) darbepoetin alfa and romiplostim in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East; and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in the United States. We currently market pegfilgrastim, G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim under the brand names Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®/GRANULOKINE®, Aranesp®, EPOGEN®and Nplate®, respectively. Under these agreements, we pay K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, we also receive payments from K-A for milestones earned and for conducting certain R&D activities on its behalf. See Part IV—Note 8, Related party transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

K-A has also given Kirin exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and pegfilgrastim in Japan, Taiwan and South Korea; (ii) darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and brodalumab in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea and in certain other countries and/or regions in Asia; and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in Japan. K-A also gave Kirin and Amgen co-exclusive licenses to manufacture and market G-CSF, pegfilgrastim and recombinant human erythropoietin in China, which Amgen subsequently assigned to Kirin, and as a result, Kirin now exclusively manufactures and markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in China. Kirin markets G-CSF, pegfilgrastim, darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and recombinant human erythropoietin under the brand names GRAN®/Grasin®, Peglasta®/Neulasta®/G-Lasta®, NESP®/Aranesp®, ROMIPLATE®and ESPO®, respectively. Under these agreements, Kirin pays K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, Kirin also receives payments from K-A for conducting certain R&D activities on its behalf.

K-A has also given J&J exclusive licenses to manufacture and market recombinant human erythropoietin for all geographic areas of the world outside the United States, China and Japan. Under this agreement, J&J pays royalties to K-A based on product sales.










Pfizer Inc.

The co-promotion term of our ENBREL collaboration agreement with Pfizer in the United States and Canada expired on October 31, 2013, giving us full ownership of ENBREL promotional rights in the United States and Canada while the rights to market ENBREL outside the United States and Canada are reserved to Pfizer. Under the collaboration agreement, Amgen and Pfizer shared in the agreed-upon selling and marketing expenses approved by a joint committee. We paid Pfizer a percentage of annual gross profits on our ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada on a scale that increased with gross profits; however, we maintained a majority share of ENBREL profits. In 2016, we are required to pay Pfizer residual royalties of 10% of annual net ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada. The amounts of such payments are significantly less than what was owed based on the terms of the previous ENBREL profit share.Effective November 1, 2016, there will be no further royalty payments.

Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc.

As a result of our acquisition of Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Onyx), we are party to a collaboration with Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Bayer) to jointly develop and commercialize Nexavar®(sorafenib) worldwide, except in Japan. The rights to develop and market Nexavar®in Japan are reserved to Bayer.

In May 2015, we and Bayer amended the terms of the collaboration, which terminated the co-promotion agreement in the United States, and transferred all U.S. operational responsibilities to Bayer, including commercial and medical affairs activities. Prior to the termination of the co-promotion agreement, we co-promoted Nexavar®with Bayer and shared equally in the profits in the United States. In lieu of this profit share, Bayer now pays us a royalty on U.S. sales of Nexavar®at a percentage rate in the high 30s. Outside of the United States, excluding Japan, Bayer manages all commercialization activities and incurs all of the sales and marketing expenditures and mutually agreed R&D expenses, and we reimburse Bayer for half of those expenditures. In all countries outside of the United States, except Japan, we receive 50% of net profits on sales of Nexavar®after deducting certain Bayer-related costs.

UCB

We are in a collaboration with UCB for the development and commercialization of romosozumab. Under the agreement, we received the rights to commercialize romosozumab for all indications in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Japan. UCB has the rights for all EU members at the time of first regulatory approval, Australia and New Zealand. Prior to commercialization, countries that have not been initially designated will be designated to Amgen or UCB in accordance with the terms of the agreement.

Generally, development costs are shared equally and we will share equally in the worldwide commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting for expenses.

DaVita Inc.

We are in a seven-year supply agreement with DaVita that commenced January 1, 2012. Pursuant to this agreement, we will supply EPOGEN®in amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of DaVita’s and its affiliates’ requirements for ESAs used in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico. The agreement may be terminated by either party before expiration of its term in the event of certain breaches of the agreement by the other party.



Human Resources

As ofDecember 31, 2015, Amgen had approximately 17,900 staff members. We consider our staff relations to be good.












Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company as of February9,2016 are set forth below.

Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 53, has served as a director of the Company since October 2011 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 1, 2013. Mr. Bradway has been the Company’s President since May 2010 and Chief Executive Officer since May 2012. From May 2010 to May 2012, Mr. Bradway served as the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Bradway joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations Strategy and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2007 to May 2010. Prior to joining the Company, he was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in London where, beginning in 2001, he had responsibility for the firm’s banking department and corporate finance activities in Europe.

Mr. Bradway has been a director of Norfolk Southern Corporation, a transportation company, since July 2011. He has served on the board of trustees of the University of Southern California since April 2014, and on the advisory board of the Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics at that university since 2012.

Mr. Madhavan (“Madhu”) Balachandran, age 65, became Executive Vice President, Operations in August 2012. Mr. Balachandran joined the Company in 1997 and has held leadership positions in engineering, information systems and operations. From October 2007 to August 2012, Mr. Balachandran was Senior Vice President, Manufacturing. From February 2007 to October 2007, Mr. Balachandran was Vice President, Site Operations. From May 2002 to February 2007, Mr. Balachandran was Vice President, Puerto Rico Operations. Prior to 2002, Mr. Balachandran served as Associate Director Capital Projects before his promotion to Director Engineering and then to Vice President, Information Management. Previously, Mr. Balachandran served as Vice President, Engineering at Burroughs Wellcome & Company.

Mr. Jonathan P. Graham, age 55, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in July 2015. Prior to joining the Company, from July 2006 to May 2015, Mr. Graham was Senior Vice President and General Counsel at Danaher Corporation. From October 2004 to June 2006, Mr. Graham was Vice President, Litigation and Legal Policy at General Electric Company. Prior to General Electric Company, Mr. Graham was a partner at Williams & Connolly LLP.

Dr. Sean E. Harper, age 53, became Executive Vice President, Research and Development in February 2012. Dr. Harper joined the Company in 2002, and has held leadership roles in early development, medical sciences and global regulatory and safety. Dr. Harper served as Senior Vice President, Global Development and Corporate Chief Medical Officer from March 2007 to February 2012. Prior to joining the Company, Dr. Harper worked for five years at Merck Research Laboratories.

Mr. Anthony C. Hooper, age 61, became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations in October 2011. From March 2010 to October 2011, Mr. Hooper was Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations and President, U.S., Japan and Intercontinental of BMS. From January 2009 to March 2010, Mr. Hooper was President, Americas of BMS. From January 2004 to January 2009, Mr. Hooper was President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals Group, a division of BMS. Prior to this, Mr. Hooper held various senior leadership positions at BMS. Prior to joining BMS, Mr. Hooper was Assistant Vice President of Global Marketing for Wyeth Laboratories.

Mr. Brian McNamee, age 59, became Executive Vice President, Full Potential Initiatives in October 2013. Mr. McNamee joined the Company in June 2001 as Senior Vice President, Human Resources. From November 1999 to June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division of the General Electric Company. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resources positions at General Electric.

Mr. David W. Meline, age 58, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2014. From April 2011 to July 2014, Mr. Meline served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at 3M Company. From September 2008 to March 2011, Mr. Meline served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of 3M. Prior to 2008, Mr. Meline served in a variety of senior leadership roles for General Motors Company for over 20 years, with his last position being Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, North America. Mr. Meline was a director of TRW Automotive Holdings, Corp., a supplier of automotive systems, modules and components, from February 2014 until its acquisition by ZF Friedrichshafen AG in May 2015.

Ms. Cynthia M. Patton, age 54, became Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer in October 2012. Ms. Patton joined the Company in 2005. From July 2005 to September 2010, Ms. Patton was Associate General Counsel. From September 2010 to October 2012, Ms. Patton was Vice President, Law. Previously, Ms. Patton served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of SCAN Health Plan from 1999 to 2005.












Mr. David A. Piacquad, age 59, became Senior Vice President, Business Development in March 2014. Mr. Piacquad joined the Company in June 2010. From June 2010 to January 2014, Mr. Piacquad served as Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development. From January 2014 to March 2014, Mr. Piacquad served as Vice President, Business Development. Prior to joining the Company, from December 2009 to June 2010, Mr. Piacquad was Principal of David A. Piacquad Consulting LLC. From March 2006 to December 2009, Mr. Piacquad served as Senior Vice President, Business Development and Licensing for Schering-Plough Corporation. Prior to Schering-Plough, Mr. Piacquad served in a series of leadership roles in finance and business development at J&J, with his last position being Vice President, Ventures and Business Development.

Dr. Stuart A. Tross, age 49, became Senior Vice President, Human Resources in October 2013. Dr. Tross joined the Company in April 2006 as Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining Amgen, from November 1998 to April 2006, Dr. Tross served in a series of roles for BMS, with his last position being Vice President and Global Head of Human Resources of Mead Johnson Nutrition. Prior to joining BMS, Dr. Tross was a management consultant for Towers Perrin.



Geographic Area Financial Information

For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Part IV—Note 19, Segment information—Geographic information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Investor Information

Financial and other information about us is available on our website at www.amgen.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, we have previously filed registration statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, or at the SEC’s internet address at www.sec.gov. These website addresses are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing. Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330.



