Item 1.BUSINESS

Overview

Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as “Amgen,”
“the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us”) is the world’s largest independent biotechnology medicines company. We discover, develop, manufacture and market medicines for grievous illnesses. We focus solely on
human therapeutics and concentrate on innovating novel medicines based on advances in cellular and molecular biology. Our mission is to serve patients.

We were incorporated in 1980 and organized as a Delaware corporation in 1987. Our public website is www.amgen.com. On our website, investors can find press releases, financial filings and other
information about the Company. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) website, www.sec.gov, also offers access to reports and documents Amgen has filed electronically with the SEC. These website addresses are not intended to
function as hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing.

As of December 31, 2009, we had 17,200 staff members worldwide. Approximately 6,600 of our staff members work in our research and development (“R&D”) function; approximately 4,700 work
in manufacturing; approximately 3,900 work in our commercial operations and the rest are in general and administrative functions.

Currently, we market primarily recombinant protein therapeutics in supportive cancer care, nephrology and inflammation. Our principal products are: Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa) and EPOGEN®(Epoetin alfa), erythropoietic-stimulating agents (“ESAs”) that stimulate the production of red blood cells; Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim), a pegylated protein, based on the Filgrastim molecule, and NEUPOGEN®(Filgrastim), a recombinant-methionyl human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (“G-CSF”), both of which
selectively stimulate the production of neutrophils (a type of white blood cell that helps the body fight infection), and Enbrel®(etanercept), an inhibitor of tumor necrosis factor (“TNF”), a substance that plays a role in the body’s response to inflammatory diseases. Our
principal products represented 93%, 94% and 95% of our sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our other marketed products include: Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet), a
small molecule calcimimetic that lowers serum calcium levels; Vectibix®(panitumumab), a fully human monoclonal
antibody that binds specifically to the epidermal growth factor receptor (“EGFr”) and Nplate®(romiplostim), a thrombopoietin (“TPO”) receptor agonist that mimics endogenous TPO, the primary driver of platelet production.

In addition to our marketed products, we have products in mid-to-late stage development in various therapeutic areas, including oncology, hematology, inflammation, bone, nephrology and general medicine,
which includes cardiology and neurology. Denosumab, our leading late-stage product candidate, is a fully human monoclonal antibody that specifically targets a ligand known as RANKL (that binds to a receptor known as RANK), an essential regulator of
osteoclasts (the cells that break down bone) that is under regulatory review and is being studied across a range of conditions. Our R&D organization has expertise in multiple treatment modalities, including large molecules (such as proteins,
antibodies and peptibodies) and small molecules.

We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United States, Europe
and Canada. We market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. Most patients receiving our principal products for approved indications are covered by either government
or private payer healthcare programs, which influence demand. The reimbursement environment is evolving with greater emphasis on cost containment and in demonstrating the economic value of products.

Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and risky. Product development cycles are very long — approximately 10 to 15
years from discovery to market – and failure rates are high. A new medicine must undergo many years of preclinical and clinical testing to establish safety and efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels with an acceptable
benefit-risk profile. Biotechnology products, which are produced in living systems, are inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required
to transform laboratory scale processes into reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. Upon approval, marketed products in our industry







generally face substantial competition. Our industry is also highly regulated, and various U.S. and international regulatory bodies have substantial authority over how we develop, manufacture and
commercialize our products as well as conduct our business. The regulatory environment is evolving and there is increased scrutiny on drug safety and increased authority being granted to regulatory bodies, in particular the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (“FDA”), to assist in ensuring safety of therapeutic products, which may lead to fewer products being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, delays in receiving approvals or additional safety-related requirements or
restrictions on the use of our products, including expanded safety labeling, required risk management activities, including a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (“REMS”), and/or additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of
post-marketing commitments (“PMCs”), post-marketing requirements (“PMRs”) or pharmacovigilance programs.

Key Developments

The following is a list of selected key developments that occurred during 2009 and early 2010
affecting our business, including regulatory and reimbursement developments associated with certain of our marketed products and product candidates. A more detailed discussion of each key development follows in the appropriate sections.

Denosumab



•We received Complete Response Letters from the FDA on our biologics license application (“BLA”) for Prolia™in the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis (“PMO”) in women and bone loss in patients
undergoing hormone ablation therapy (“HALT”) for either prostate or breast cancer. These Complete Response Letters requested additional information to support approval of the treatment of the PMO indication and the HALT indication, and
requested a new clinical program to support approval of the prevention of the PMO indication. (The FDA has provisionally approved the trade name Prolia™in the indications noted above, for which the drug is administered twice yearly subcutaneously at a 60 milligram (“mg”) dose. The trade name is only for
these indications and may not apply for other indications of denosumab.)



•On February 19, 2010, we announced that the FDA has evaluated the content of our Complete Response submission for Prolia™in the treatment of PMO, which we submitted on January 25, 2010, and classified it as a Class 2 resubmission. With
the Class 2 designation, the FDA set a corresponding Prescription Drug User Fee Act (“PDUFA”) action date of July 25, 2010.



•We received a positive opinion from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (“CHMP”) of the European Medicines Agency
(“EMA”) (formerly known as the EMEA) for marketing authorization for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fractures and bone loss associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer at
increased risk of fractures.



•We announced positive results from the following three phase 3 head-to-head trials evaluating denosumab versus Zometa®(zoledronic acid) in the treatment of bone metastases:



¡in patients with advanced breast cancer, in which denosumab was superior to Zometa®in delaying the time to the first skeletal-related event (“SRE”) and delaying the time to the first-and-subsequent SREs,



¡in advanced cancer patients with solid tumors or multiple myeloma, in which denosumab was non-inferior to Zometa®in delaying the time to the first SRE,



¡in men with advanced prostate cancer, in which denosumab was superior to Zometa®in delaying the time to the first SRE and delaying the time to the first-and-subsequent SREs.

These three studies will form the basis of the clinical evidence package for denosumab in advanced cancer, which will be submitted to
regulatory authorities later in 2010.







ESAs



•On February 16, 2010, we announced that the FDA approved a REMS program for our ESAs.



•We published detailed results from the Trial to Reduce Cardiovascular Endpoints with Aranesp®Therapy (“TREAT”) and updated the ESA labels to incorporate certain of the trial results regarding the increased risk of stroke and to reinforce the need to
follow the approved label guidance to maintain appropriate hemoglobin (“Hb”) levels.



•The FDA announced that it will call an advisory committee meeting in 2010 to re-evaluate the use of ESAs to treat anemia in patients with chronic
kidney disease (“CKD”) and could consider lowering targeted Hb levels and reducing approved dosing for ESAs.



•The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) has scheduled a Medicare Evidence Development & Coverage Advisory
Committee (“MEDCAC”) meeting on March 24, 2010 to examine currently available evidence on the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients who have CKD, which may consider the results of the TREAT study.



•The CMS released its proposed rule to implement the bundled prospective payment system for end stage renal disease (“ESRD”), which could
impact reimbursement for EPOGEN®.

U.S. healthcare reform



•Healthcare reform, focused on expanding healthcare coverage to millions of uninsured Americans and reducing the rate of increase in the costs of
healthcare, remains a priority for President Obama, U.S. Congress and a number of states. Developments in this area have been highly dynamic and difficult to predict. As recently as February 23, 2010, President Obama released a new proposal for
healthcare reform which includes a combination of provisions from both the Senate and House of Representatives bills passed in late 2009. Certain healthcare reform proposals being considered, which may or may not be adopted into law, could:



¡restrict the coverage and reimbursement of our products by Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs;



¡reduce the number of years of data exclusivity for innovative biological products potentially leading to earlier biosimilar competition; and/or



¡require additional healthcare reform costs be borne by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.

At this time, we cannot predict which or whether any reform measures will be adopted into law.

Other pipeline developments



•We announced detailed results from two key phase 3 trials evaluating Vectibix®as a first- and second-line treatment in patients withKRASwild-type metastatic colorectal cancer (“mCRC”).



•We announced plans to initiate a phase 3 trial for AMG 386 in ovarian cancer.

Marketed Products and Selected Product Candidates

We market our principal products, Aranesp®, EPOGEN®, Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®and ENBREL, in the areas of supportive cancer care, nephrology and inflammation. Our products’ competitive position among other biologic and pharmaceutical
products may be based on, among other things, patent position, product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, patient convenience/delivery devices, price and reimbursement. Certain of our marketed products face, and our product candidates, if
approved, are also expected to face, substantial competition from products marketed by large pharmaceutical corporations, which may have greater clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, financial and human resources than we do. In
addition, the introduction of new products or the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or new information about existing products may result in increased competition for our marketed products, even for those protected by







patents, or a reduction in the price we receive from selling our products. For example, we are facing increasing competition from biosimilars in the European Union (“EU”), which has an
established regulatory pathway for biosimilars. In addition, lawmakers in the United States have proposed bills to create a regulatory pathway for the abbreviated approval of biosimilars and several companies have recently announced plans to pursue
development of biosimilars in the United States. Further, the development of new treatment options or standards of care may require less use of our products, particularly in supportive cancer care, or limit the utility and application of ongoing
clinical trials for our product candidates.

In addition to challenges presented by competition, our existing products and
product candidates are also subject to increasing regulatory compliance requirements which can be imposed as a condition of approval or after a product has been approved. This is increasingly true of new therapies with novel mechanisms of action.
While these therapies may offer important benefits and/or better treatment alternatives, they may also involve a relatively new or higher level of scientific complexity and, therefore, generate increased safety concerns. For example, as a condition
of approval or due to safety concerns after the product has been approved, we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or studies, such as observational epidemiological studies. Such trials or studies are called PMCs or PMRs. We
currently have PMCs or PMRs for some of our marketed products. In addition, we may be required to implement a REMS for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. This requirement, too, may be imposed as a condition of
approval or after a product has been on the market. A REMS may include a medication guide or a patient package insert, a healthcare provider communication plan or other elements the FDA deems are necessary to assure safe use of the product. While
the elements of a REMS may vary, all REMS are required to have a timetable for assessments.

ESAs

Aranesp®is our registered trademark for one of our ESAs, a protein that stimulates red blood cell production. Red blood cells transport oxygen to all cells of the body.
Without adequate amounts of erythropoietin, the red blood cell count is reduced. A deficient red blood cell count can result in anemia, a condition where insufficient oxygen is delivered to the body’s organs and tissues. Anemia can be
associated with chronic renal failure (“CRF”), both in patients on dialysis and not on dialysis. Anemia can also result from chemotherapy treatments for patients with non-myeloid malignancies.

EPOGEN®is our other ESA and is our registered trademark for our recombinant human erythropoietin product, a protein that stimulates red blood cell production. A reduced red
blood cell count can result in anemia (see “— Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)”). Individuals
with CRF suffer from anemia because they do not produce sufficient amounts of erythropoietin, which is normally produced in healthy kidneys.

Our ESA products have and will continue to face challenges. For example, based on adverse safety results observed beginning in late 2006 in various ESA studies, performed by us and others, that explored
the use of ESAs in settings different from those outlined in the FDA approved label, the product labeling of our ESA products has been updated several times to reflect these safety concerns in the United States and the EU, including, most recently,
label updates in the United States in August 2008 and in December 2009 to reflect certain results of our TREAT study, as discussed below. In addition, due in part to certain of these developments, reimbursement of our ESA products in the United
States was also revised resulting in changes in the way ESAs are used in clinical practice, including by decreasing the number of treated patients, average dose and duration of ESA therapy. Certain of these developments have had a material adverse
impact on sales of our ESA products, in particular Aranesp®sales in the U.S. supportive cancer care setting.

Further, we believe that certain of the following recent and pending developments could have a material
adverse impact on the future sales of Aranesp®and EPOGEN®:



•On February 16, 2010, Amgen and Centocor Ortho Biotech Products, L.P. (“Centocor Ortho Biotech Products”), a subsidiary of
Johnson & Johnson (“J&J”), announced that the FDA approved a REMS for ESAs which includes Aranesp®, EPOGEN®and Procrit®(Epoetin alfa). The FDA has determined that a REMS is necessary for ESAs to ensure the benefits of these drugs
outweigh the risks of shortened overall survival (“OS”) and/or increased tumor progression or recurrence as identified in clinical studies in







patients with breast, non-small cell lung, head and neck, lymphoid and cervical cancers. As part of the REMS, a medication guide explaining the risks and benefits of ESAs must be provided to all
patients receiving ESAs. To ensure continued access to ESAs for healthcare providers who prescribe, or prescribe and dispense, ESAs to patients with cancer, providers are required to train and enroll in the ESA APPRISE (Assisting Providers and
cancer Patients with Risk Information for the Safe use of ESAs) Oncology Program and to document that a discussion about the risks of ESAs took place with each patient prior to the initiation of each new course of ESA therapy. The ESA APPRISE
Oncology Program will be launched on March 24, 2010. Direct patient registration or approval prior to ESA administration is not required through the ESA APPRISE Oncology Program.



•On December 16, 2009, after consultation with the FDA, Amgen and Centocor Ortho Biotech Products updated the safety information in the ESA product
labeling to reflect certain results of our TREAT study. These changes include a revision to the BOXED WARNINGS section to include the increased risk of stroke and to reinforce the need to follow the approved label guidance to maintain Hb levels
within the range of 10 to 12 grams per deciliter (“g/dL”). (See discussion of Aranesp®TREAT study
results in “Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates.”)



•The FDA has announced that it will call an advisory committee meeting in 2010 to re-evaluate the use of ESAs to treat anemia in patients with CKD and
could consider lowering targeted Hb levels and reducing approved dosing for ESAs.



•The CMS has scheduled a MEDCAC meeting for March 24, 2010 to examine currently available evidence on the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients who
have CKD, which may consider the results of the TREAT study. In February 2010, the CMS released the voting questions the MEDCAC will address, including whether the available evidence in both CKD not on dialysis and ESRD clearly (i) demonstrates
benefits and risks of ESA therapy, (ii) supports a baseline Hb range or (iii) justifies a dose response or maximum dose. The CMS will decide whether more evidence is needed to determine whether ESA treatment is reasonable and necessary to support
continued Medicare coverage. (See “Reimbursement.”)



•On September 15, 2009, the CMS released its proposed rule to implement a bundled prospective payment system for ESRD, which becomes effective in
2011 and could impact EPOGEN®. (See “Reimbursement.”)



•We are working with the FDA to make ESA product package insert changes associated with the Physician’s Labeling Rule (“PLR”) conversion
process. During the process of converting from the existing format to the new PLR format, the FDA may evaluate the package insert information to ensure that it accurately reflects current knowledge and may revise, add to or remove information
appearing in the old format that could substantively impact the content of the product package insert.

In addition to the above, following the Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee (“ODAC”) meeting in May 2004, we proposed a pharmacovigilance program for Aranesp®comprised of five studies to explore the use of ESAs in settings different from those outlined in the FDA approved
label. These studies were subsequently designated by the FDA as PMCs. Of the five studies, one was sponsored by Amgen while the remaining four were investigator-sponsored. Results of certain of these studies contributed to safety-related product
labeling changes for our ESA products and changes in reimbursement, as noted above. Of the five studies, three are complete while final results of the other two are expected in 2010 or 2011. In addition, Johnson and Johnson Pharmaceutical
Research & Development (“J&JPRD”), a subsidiary of J&J, and/or its investigators have conducted numerous studies proposed at the 2004 ODAC meeting. All of these studies are closed to enrollment and summary results were
submitted to the FDA. In addition, J&JPRD’s EPO-ANE-3010 study in breast cancer is ongoing and is designated as a FDA PMC.

Based on our ongoing discussions with the FDA in response to the May 2007 ODAC meeting, we and J&JPRD have carefully considered potential new study designs to determine the effects of ESAs on survival and tumor outcomes in anemic
patients with metastatic cancer receiving concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Based on these discussions, we have initiated a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3







non-inferiority study evaluating OS when comparing advanced non-small cell lung cancer (“NSCLC”) patients on Aranesp®to patients receiving placebo (“Study 782”) as part of our Aranesp®pharmacovigilance program. Adverse events or results of any of these studies could further affect product safety labeling, healthcare provider prescribing behavior,
regulatory or private healthcare organization medical guidelines and/or reimbursement practices related to Aranesp®.

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)

We were granted an exclusive license by Kirin-Amgen, Inc. (“KA”), a joint venture between Kirin Holdings Company, Limited (“Kirin”) and Amgen (see “Business Relationships — Kirin Holdings Company,
Limited”), to manufacture and market Aranesp®in the United States, all European countries, Canada,
Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East.

We market Aranesp®primarily in the United States and Europe.
Aranesp®was initially launched in 2001 in the United States and Europe for the treatment of anemia associated
with CRF (both in patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis) and is also indicated for the treatment of anemia due to concomitant chemotherapy in patients with non-myeloid malignancies.

Worldwide Aranesp®sales for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $2.65 billion, $3.14 billion and $3.61 billion, respectively. For the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, U.S. Aranesp®sales were $1.25 billion, $1.65 billion and $2.15 billion,
respectively and international Aranesp®sales were $1.40 billion, $1.49 billion and $1.46 billion, respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for darbepoetin alfa are described in the table below.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins5/15/2024Europe(1)Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins10/12/2010Europe(1)Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins8/16/2014



(1)In some cases,
these European patents may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such extension will vary by country.

Our principal European patent relating to Epoetin alfa expired on December 12, 2004. Although we do not market
EPOGEN®in Europe, upon expiration of this patent, some companies have received approval to market biosimilars
or other products that compete with Aranesp®in Europe, presenting additional competition, as further discussed
below.







Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful
in addressing anemia associated with chemotherapy and renal failure could negatively impact product sales of Aranesp®. The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that compete with Aranesp®in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care and nephrology segments, unless otherwise indicated. The table and discussion below of competitor marketed products and potential products may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.PROCRIT®(1)Centocor Ortho Biotech Products(2)EuropeEPREX®/ERYPO®Janssen-Cilag(2)EuropeNeoRecormon®F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (“Roche”)EuropeRetacrit™(3)/Silapo®(3)Hospira Enterprises B.V. (“Hospira”)/Stada Arzneimittel AGEuropeBinocrit®(3)/Epoetin alfa Hexal®(3)/Abseamed®(3)Sandoz GmbH (“Sandoz”)/Hexal Biotech Forschungs GmbH (“Hexal”)/Medice Arzneimittel Pütter GmbH &
Company KGEuropeMIRCERA®(4)RocheEuropeBiopoin®CT Arztneimittel GmbH (“CT Arztneimittel”)



(1)In the United States, Aranesp®competes with PROCRIT®in the
supportive cancer care and pre-dialysis settings.

(2)A subsidiary of J&J.

(3)Biosimilar product approved and launched in certain EU countries.

(4)Competes with Aranesp®in the nephrology segment only.

In the United States, Aranesp®also competes with EPOGEN®, primarily in the U.S. hospital dialysis clinic setting. In addition to competition from the above-noted marketed
products, the following product candidates could compete with Aranesp®in the future. Affymax Inc. and Takeda
Pharmaceutical Company Limited (“Takeda”) are co-developing Hematide™, an ESA for the treatment of
anemia in renal patients and they have announced plans to file for regulatory approval in 2010. FibroGen Inc. is developing FG-2216 and FG-4592, orally active ESAs, for the treatment of anemia and is also studying FG-4592 for the treatment in anemia
of CKD. Additionally, in December 2008, Merck & Company, Inc. (“Merck”) announced the formation of a new biotech division, Merck Bioventures, which is developing a late-stage pegylated ESA (MK-2578), which they have announced they
expect to launch in 2012.

EPOGEN®(Epoetin alfa)

We
were granted an exclusive license to manufacture and market EPOGEN®in the United States under a licensing
agreement with KA. We have retained exclusive rights to market EPOGEN®in the United States for dialysis
patients. We granted Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, a subsidiary of J&J (which has assigned its rights under the Product License Agreement to Centocor Ortho Biotech Products), a license to commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a
human therapeutic in the United States in all markets other than dialysis (see “Business Relationships — Johnson & Johnson”).

We launched EPOGEN®in the United States in 1989 for the treatment of anemia associated with CRF for patients who are on dialysis. We market EPOGEN®in the United States for the treatment of anemic adult and pediatric patients with CRF who are on dialysis.
EPOGEN®is indicated for elevating or maintaining the red blood cell level (as determined by hematocrit or Hb
measurements) and decreasing the need for blood transfusions in these patients.

EPOGEN®sales in the United States for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $2.6 billion, $2.5 billion
and $2.5 billion, respectively.







Our outstanding material patents for Epoetin alfa are described in the table below.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Process of making erythropoietin8/15/2012U.S.Product claims to erythropoietin8/20/2013U.S.Pharmaceutical compositions of erythropoietin8/20/2013U.S.Cells that make certain levels of erythropoietin5/26/2015

Amgen and Roche
reached a settlement of litigation in December 2009, and on December 22, 2009, the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts entered final judgment and a permanent injunction against Roche prohibiting Roche from infringing our
patents. The judgment was accompanied by Roche’s admission that our five patents involved in the lawsuit are valid, enforceable and infringed by Roche’s Peg-EPO, and by us allowing Roche to begin selling Peg-EPO in the United States in
mid-2014 under terms of a limited license agreement. Peg-EPO has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of anemia associated with CKD.

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in addressing anemia associated with CRF could negatively impact product sales of EPOGEN®. In the United States, as noted above, EPOGEN®and Aranesp®compete with
each other, primarily in the U.S. hospital dialysis clinic setting. In addition, EPOGEN®could face additional
competition in the United States from those product candidates noted in the Aranesp®section above that may be
used in dialysis.

Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)/NEUPOGEN®(Filgrastim)

®

®

®

®

®

We were granted an exclusive license to manufacture and market Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand under a licensing
agreement with KA (see“Business Relationships — Kirin Holdings Company, Limited”).

We market Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®primarily in the United States and Europe. Filgrastim is also marketed under the brand name GRANULOKINE®in Italy. Neulasta®was
initially launched in the United States and Europe in 2002 and is indicated for reducing the incidence of infection associated with chemotherapy-induced neutropenia in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies. Administration of Neulasta®in all cycles of chemotherapy is approved for patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy associated with at
least a 17% risk of febrile neutropenia. NEUPOGEN®was initially launched in the United States and Europe in
1991. NEUPOGEN®is indicated for reducing the incidence of infection as manifested by febrile neutropenia for







patients with non-myeloid malignancies undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy; reducing the duration of neutropenia and neutropenia-related consequences for patients with non-myeloid
malignancies undergoing myeloablative chemotherapy followed by bone marrow transplantation; reducing the incidence and duration of neutropenia-related consequences in symptomatic patients with congenital neutropenia, cyclic neutropenia or idiopathic
neutropenia (collectively, severe chronic neutropenia); mobilizing peripheral blood progenitor cells (“PBPC”) in cancer patients who have undergone myeloablative chemotherapy for stem cell transplantation; and reducing the recovery time of
neutrophils and the duration of fever following induction or consolidation chemotherapy treatment in adult patients with acute myeloid leukemia (“AML”).

Worldwide Neulasta®sales for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $3.4 billion, $3.3 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. Worldwide NEUPOGEN®sales for each of the three years ended December 31, 2009 were $1.3 billion.

Our outstanding material patents for pegfilgrastim are described in the table below.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Pegylated G-CSF10/20/2015Europe(1)Pegylated G-CSF2/8/2015



(1)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such
extension will vary by country.

Our outstanding material patents for Filgrastim are described in the table
below.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.G-CSF polypeptides12/3/2013U.S.Methods of treatment using G-CSF polypeptides12/10/2013

Our principal European patent relating to G-CSF expired on August 22, 2006. Upon expiration of this patent, some companies have received approval to market biosimilar products that compete with Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®in Europe, presenting additional competition, as further discussed below.

Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®could face
competition in some circumstances from companies marketing or developing treatments for neutropenia associated with chemotherapy, for bone marrow and PBPC transplant patients, severe chronic neutropenia and AML. NEUPOGEN®competes with Neulasta®in the United States and Europe. U.S. and international NEUPOGEN®sales have been adversely impacted by conversion to Neulasta®. However, we believe that the conversion in the United States is substantially complete and that a significant amount of the conversion in Europe had already
occurred.

The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that primarily
compete with Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care setting. The table and discussion below of competitor marketed products and potential competitor
products may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Leukine®Bayer HealthCare PharmaceuticalsEuropeGranocyte®Chugai Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd./Sanofi-AventisEuropeRatiograstim®(1)/Filgrastim Ratiopharm®(1)Ratiopharm GmbHEuropeBiograstim®(1)CT ArztneimittelEuropeTevagrastim®(1)Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (“Teva Pharmaceutical”)EuropeZarzio®(1)/Filgrastim Hexal®(1)Sandoz/Hexal



(1)Biosimilar product approved and launched in certain EU countries.

In February 2010, Teva Pharmaceutical announced that the FDA has accepted for review its BLA seeking U.S. approval to market XM02 to boost white blood cells under the brand name Neutroval™. XM02 is already







being sold under the brand name Tevagrastim®in several
European countries. If approved in the United States, this drug could compete with NEUPOGEN®and Neulasta®. On November 30, 2009, Teva Pharmaceutical filed a declaratory judgment action against us alleging that certain
of our NEUPOGEN®patents are invalid and not infringed by Teva Pharmaceutical’s XM02 and on
January 15, 2010, we filed an answer and counterclaims seeking a declaratory judgment that our patents are valid and infringed. (See Note 20, “Contingencies and commitments” to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) In
addition, in September 2009, Hospira announced it acquired worldwide rights to a biogeneric version of Filgrastim from Teva Pharmaceutical. If approved in Europe, this drug could compete with NEUPOGEN®and Neulasta®.

Enbrel®(etanercept)

ENBREL is our registered
trademark for our TNF receptor fusion protein that inhibits the binding of TNF to its receptors, which can result in a significant reduction in inflammatory activity. TNF is one of the chemical messengers that help regulate the inflammatory process.
When the body produces too much TNF, it overwhelms the immune system’s ability to control inflammation of the joints or of psoriasis-affected skin areas. ENBREL is similar to a protein that the body produces naturally, and like this protein, it
binds certain TNF molecules before they can trigger inflammation.

We acquired the rights to ENBREL in July 2002 with our
acquisition of Immunex Corporation (“Immunex”).

We market ENBREL under a co-promotion agreement with Pfizer Inc.
(“Pfizer”) in the United States and Canada (see “Business Relationships — Pfizer Inc.”). The rights to market and sell ENBREL outside of the United States and Canada are reserved to Pfizer. ENBREL was initially
launched in November 1998 by Immunex for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (“RA”). In addition, ENBREL is now indicated for the treatment of adult patients with the following conditions: moderately to severely active RA; chronic
moderate to severe plaque psoriasis patients who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy; active psoriatic arthritis and active ankylosing spondylitis. ENBREL is also approved for the treatment of moderately to severely active
polyarticular juvenile idopathic arthritis in patients ages 2 and older.

ENBREL sales for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007 were $3.5 billion, $3.6 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively.

Our outstanding material patent for
etanercept is described in the table below.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.TNFR DNA vectors, cells and processes for making proteins10/23/2012

Any products or
technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating rheumatology, which includes moderate to severe RA, moderate to severe polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis; and dermatology,
which includes moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, could negatively impact product sales of ENBREL. Current treatments for these indications include generic methotrexate and other products, as further discussed below.







The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that primarily
compete with ENBREL in the United States and Canada in the inflammatory disease setting. The table and discussion below of competitor marketed products and potential competitor products may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryTherapeutic AreaCompetitorMarketed ProductCompetitorU.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologyREMICADE®Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. (“Centocor Ortho Biotech”)(1)/MerckU.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologyHUMIRA®Abbott Laboratories (“Abbott”)U.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologyTrexall™Duramed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.(2)U.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologySimponi®Centocor Ortho Biotech(1)U.S. & CanadaRheumatologyCimzia®UCB/ Nektar TherapeuticsU.S. & CanadaRheumatologyOrencia®Bristol-Myers Squibb Corporation (“BMS”)U.S. & CanadaRheumatologyArava®Sanofi-AventisU.S. & CanadaRheumatologyRheumatrex®DAVA Pharmaceuticals, Inc.U.S. & CanadaRheumatologyRituxan®RocheU.S.RheumatologyActemra®RocheU.S. & CanadaDermatologyStelara®Centocor Ortho Biotech(1)U.S. & CanadaDermatologyAmevive®Biogen IDEC Inc.



(1)A subsidiary of J&J.

(2)A subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical.

In addition to competition from the above-noted marketed products, various companies are developing products which may compete with ENBREL in the future, including Abbott, which is developing ABT-874 in
phase 3 trials for the treatment of psoriasis. Abbott has announced that they are planning to submit this indication for regulatory approval in 2010. In addition, a number of companies have JAK kinase inhibitors in development for RA, including
Pfizer and Incyte Corporation.

Other

Our other marketed products are principally comprised of Sensipar®(cinacalcet), Vectibix®(panitumumab) and Nplate®(romiplostim).

Sensipar®(cinacalcet)

Sensipar®is our registered trademark in the United States and Mimpara®is our registered trademark in Europe for our first small molecule medicine used in treating CKD patients on
dialysis who produce too much parathyroid hormone (“PTH”), a condition known as secondary hyperparathyroidism. In 2004, Sensipar®/Mimpara®was approved in the
United States and Europe for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD patients on dialysis and for the treatment of hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma. In 2008, Mimpara®was approved in Europe (through an extension of the marketing authorization for Mimpara®) for the reduction of hypercalcemia in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism where a parathyroidectomy is not clinically appropriate or is contraindicated. We
market Sensipar®/Mimpara®primarily in the United States and Europe.

Worldwide Sensipar®sales for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007 were $651 million, $597 million and $463 million, respectively.

On September 15,
2009, the CMS released its proposed rule to implement a bundled prospective payment system for ESRD. The proposed rule also includes in the bundled payment oral drugs that are not equivalent to separately billable Part B drugs, which could impact
reimbursement for Sensipar®. (See “Reimbursement.”)







Our outstanding material patents for cinacalcet are described in the table below.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.(1)Calcium receptor-active molecules10/23/2015U.S.(1)Calcium receptor-active molecules12/14/2016U.S.(1)Methods of treatment12/14/2016Europe(2)Calcium receptor-active molecules10/23/2015



(1)An application for patent term extension has been submitted and is currently pending in the United States.

(2)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such
extension will vary by country.

Any products or technologies that are directly or
indirectly successful in treating secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD on dialysis and/or hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma could negatively impact product sales of Sensipar®/Mimpara®.

The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that primarily compete with
Sensipar®in the United States and Mimpara®in Europe in the nephrology segment for patients with CKD on dialysis. The table and discussion below of competitor marketed products and potential competitor
products may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Hectorol®Genzyme Corporation (“Genzyme”)U.S.Rocaltrol®RocheU.S.Calcijex®AbbottU.S.Calcium Acetate®Roxane Laboratories/ Sandoz IncU.S. & EuropeZemplar®AbbottU.S. & EuropeRenagel®GenzymeU.S. & EuropeRenvela®GenzymeU.S. & EuropePhosLo®/Rephoren®Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co. KGaA (“Fresenius Medical Care”)U.S. & EuropeOsvaRen®Fresenius Medical CareU.S. & EuropeFosrenol®Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Plc

On July 25, 2008, we filed a lawsuit against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceutical (together defined as “Teva”) and Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc. (“Barr”) for infringement of four Sensipar®patents. The lawsuit is based on the Abbreviated New Drug Application filed by Teva and Barr which seeks approval to
market generic versions of Sensipar®. (See Note 20, “Contingencies and commitments” to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.) These generic versions could compete with Sensipar®in the future.

Vectibix®(panitumumab)

Vectibix®is our registered trademark for our first fully human monoclonal antibody for the treatment
of patients with EGFr expressing mCRC after disease progression on, or following fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan- containing chemotherapy regimens. EGFr is a protein that plays an important role in cancer cell signaling and is
over-expressed in many human cancers. Vectibix®is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds with high
affinity to EGFrs and interferes with signals that might otherwise stimulate growth and survival of the cancer cell. The goal of developing fully human monoclonal antibodies is to offer effective targeted therapies with lessened risk of immune
response against these agents. We acquired full ownership of Vectibix®with our acquisition of Abgenix, Inc.
(“Abgenix”) in April 2006 and Vectibix®received FDA approval in September 2006. In the EU, the
conditional approval of Vectibix®as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with EGFr expressing metastatic
colorectal carcinoma with non-mutated (wild-type)KRASafter failure of standard chemotherapy regimens was received in December 2007 and is reviewed annually by the CHMP. In December 2008 and 2009, the conditional marketing authorization
was renewed with an additional specific obligation to conduct a clinical trial in the existing approved indication. In 2009, the CHMP approved the protocol for this additional







clinical trial which will compare the effect of Vectibix®versus Erbitux®(cetuximab) on OS for chemorefractory mCRC patients with wild-typeKRAStumors.

Worldwide Vectibix®sales for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $233 million, $153 million and $170 million, respectively.

In July 2009, we announced that the FDA approved certain revisions to the U.S. prescribing information (“PI”)
for the EGFr class of antibodies, including Vectibix®. The INDICATIONS AND USAGE section of the PI has been
updated to include that retrospective subset analyses of mCRC trials have not shown a treatment benefit for Vectibix®in patients whose tumors hadKRASmutations in codon 12 or 13 and that use of Vectibix®is not
recommended for the treatment of colorectal cancer with these mutations. The CLINICAL STUDIES section of the PI has been updated to reflect results from retrospective analyses across seven randomized clinical trials with agents in this class. This
includes the first phase 3 analysis that showed mCRC patients with mutatedKRAStumors do not respond to monotherapy with an EGFr-inhibiting antibody (the Vectibix®“408” trial). This decision follows the FDA’s December 2008 ODAC meeting where the clinical utility of theKRASgene as a predictive biomarker
in patients with mCRC treated with anti-EGFr antibody was discussed.

In 2009, we announced that the
primary endpoint of extending progression-free survival (“PFS”) was met in the phase 3 clinical trial evaluating Vectibix®in combination with FOLFOX as a first-line treatment in patients withKRASwild-type mCRC, while the secondary endpoint of OS was not met. In
patients with mutatedKRAS, PFS was significantly inferior for patients who received Vectibix®as compared to patients that did not receive Vectibix®. We also announced in 2009 that the co-primary
endpoint of extending PFS was met in the phase 3 clinical trial evaluating Vectibix®in combination with FOLFIRI
as compared to patients who received FOLFIRI alone as a second line treatment in patients withKRASwild-type mCRC, while the co-primary endpoint of OS was not met. In patients with mutatedKRAS, no
difference was seen in PFS for patients who received Vectibix®as compared to patients that did not receive
Vectibix®. For more information, see “Research and Development and Selected Product
Candidates.” Based on the results of these studies, we are planning to file for regulatory approval in the United States and EU for first- and second- line treatment in patients withKRASwild-type mCRC.

Our outstanding material patents for panitumumab are described in the table below.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Human monoclonal antibodies EGFr4/8/2020EuropeHuman monoclonal antibodies EGFr12/4/2022

Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating mCRC after disease progression on, or following fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan- containing chemotherapy regimens could negatively impact
product sales for Vectibix®. The following table reflects companies and their currently marketed products that
primarily compete with Vectibix®in the United States and Europe. The table below of competitor marketed
products may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Erbitux®Eli Lilly and Company (“Eli Lilly”)/ BMSEuropeErbitux®Merck KGaA

Nplate®(romiplostim)

In August 2008, the FDA approved Nplate®, the first platelet producer for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in splenectomized (spleen removed) and non-splenectomized adults with chronic immune
thrombocytopenic purpura (“ITP”). Nplate®, the first FDA approved peptibody protein, works by raising
and sustaining platelet counts. We were granted an exclusive license by KA to manufacture and market Nplate®in
the United States, all European countries, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East. In February 2009, we announced that the European
Commission granted marketing authorization for Nplate®for the treatment of splenectomized adult chronic ITP
patients who are refractory to other treatments (e.g. corticosteroids, immunoglobulins). In the EU, Nplate®may







also be considered as second-line treatment for adult non-splenectomized ITP patients where surgery is contraindicated.

Worldwide Nplate®sales for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $110 million and $17 million, respectively.

Our outstanding material patents for romiplostim are described in the table below.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.(1)Thrombopoietic compounds10/22/2019Europe(2)Thrombopoietic compounds10/22/2019



(1)An application for patent term extension has been submitted and is currently pending in the United States.

(2)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such
extension will vary by country.

We currently have an approved REMS for Nplate®, which includes a medication guide, a healthcare provider communication plan and certain elements to ensure safe use
(including restricted distribution, registry and healthcare provider and patient enrollment).

Promacta®, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s (“GSK”) registered trademark in the United States, is
indicated for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic ITP who have had an insufficient response to corticosteroids, immunoglobulins, or splenectomy, and competes with Nplate®. In December 2009, Revolade®, GSK’s proposed registered trademark in Europe, received a positive opinion from the CHMP for marketing authorization for the treatment of adult chronic ITP splenectomized patients who are refractory to other treatments, and may compete
with Nplate®in the EU, if approved by the European Commission.

Product candidates

We are currently studying new product candidates, including denosumab, and currently marketed products for new indications, which, if approved, we expect will enter into highly competitive markets. If successful, these product candidates
will face substantial competition from products currently marketed as well as those under development by other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies.

Denosumab Developments

Denosumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that
specifically targets a ligand known as RANKL (that binds to a receptor known as RANK) which is an essential regulator of osteoclasts. Denosumab is under regulatory review and is being studied across a range of conditions, including osteoporosis,
treatment-induced bone loss, bone metastases, multiple myeloma and RA.

The following is a summary of certain key developments
that occurred in 2009 and early 2010 with respect to denosumab:

Prolia™(denosumab) for the Prevention and Treatment of PMO and the Prevention and Treatment of Bone Loss in Patients
Undergoing HALT for either Prostate Cancer or Breast Cancer

In late 2008, we submitted the BLA to the
FDA for Prolia™in the treatment and prevention of PMO in women and bone loss in patients undergoing HALT for
either prostate or breast cancer.

On August 13, 2009, we announced the results of our meeting with
the FDA’s Advisory Committee for Reproductive Health Drugs (“ACRHD”) to review the potential use of Prolia™for the treatment and prevention of PMO in women and the treatment and prevention of bone loss in patients undergoing HALT for either prostate cancer or breast
cancer. The Committee recommended approval of Prolia™for the treatment of PMO and for the treatment of bone
loss in patients undergoing HALT for prostate cancer. The Committee recommended against approval of Prolia™to
treat or prevent bone loss in women with breast cancer undergoing HALT until additional data are available. The Committee also recommended against approval of Prolia™to prevent bone loss in







low-risk patients in all three populations. Finally, the Committee recommended that Prolia™have a REMS. The ACRHD is an advisory committee of external experts who advise the FDA about the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs
for use in the practice of obstetrics, gynecology and related specialties. This committee is advisory only and FDA officials are not bound to or limited by their recommendations.

In October 2009, the FDA issued Complete Response Letters for our BLA for Prolia™for the above-noted indications. The FDA issues Complete Response Letters to request additional information needed to complete the review of
applications for product approval.

The Complete Response Letter related to the Prolia™application for the treatment and prevention of PMO in women requested several items, including further information
on the design and background adverse event rates that will inform the methodology of our previously submitted post-marketing surveillance program, although the letter did not require additional pre-marketing clinical trials to complete the review of
the treatment indication. The FDA has also requested a new clinical program to support approval of Prolia™for
the prevention of PMO indication. In addition, the FDA has determined that a REMS is necessary for Prolia™and
must include a medication guide and a healthcare provider communication plan. The FDA acknowledged receipt of our previously submitted proposed REMS materials. The FDA also requested all updated safety data related to Prolia™. On February 19, 2010, we announced that the FDA has evaluated the content of our Complete Response submission for
Prolia™in the treatment of PMO, which we submitted on January 25, 2010, and classified it as a Class 2
resubmission. With the Class 2 designation, the FDA set a corresponding PDUFA action date of July 25, 2010.

The Complete Response Letter related to the Prolia™HALT application requested additional information
regarding the safety of Prolia™in patients with breast cancer receiving aromatase inhibitor therapy and
patients with prostate cancer receiving androgen deprivation therapy (“ADT”). Specifically, the FDA has requested results from additional adequate and well-controlled clinical trials demonstrating that Prolia™has no detrimental effects on either time-to-disease progression or OS. We continue to work with the FDA to
determine the appropriate next steps regarding our application for the HALT indication.

Prolia™Received Positive Opinion from CHMP in the EU

In December 2009, the CHMP announced a positive opinion for the marketing authorization of Prolia™for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fractures, and for the treatment of
bone loss associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer at increased risk of fractures. If approved by the European Commission, we would receive marketing authorization for Prolia™in all EU Member States. The timing of actual launch dates would vary by country based on reimbursement authority approval of pricing which could follow the EMA
approval by many months. While the European Commission generally follows the CHMP’s opinion, it is not bound to do so.

Prolia™is also under regulatory review in Switzerland, Australia
and Canada for the treatment and prevention of PMO and the treatment of bone loss in patients undergoing HALT for breast and prostate cancer. We are working closely with regulatory agencies in each of these countries.

Denosumab Phase 3 Bone Metastases Clinical Trials

In 2009, we announced that the phase 3 head-to-head trial evaluating denosumab versus Zometa®in the treatment of bone metastases in patients with advanced breast cancer met its primary endpoint of
non-inferiority in time to first SRE and its secondary endpoints (superiority compared to Zometa®for both
delaying the time to the first on-study SRE and delaying the time to the first-and-subsequent SREs). We also announced that the phase 3 head-to-head trial evaluating denosumab versus Zometa®in the treatment of bone metastases in advanced cancer patients with solid tumors (not including breast and prostate cancer) or multiple myeloma met its primary
endpoint of non-inferiority in time to first SRE. On February 8, 2010, we announced that the phase 3 head-to-head trial evaluating denosumab versus Zometa®in the treatment of bone metastases in advanced cancer patients with prostate cancer met its primary endpoint of non-inferiority in time to first SRE and its
secondary endpoints (superiority compared to Zometa®for both delaying the time to the first on-study SRE and
delaying







the time to the first-and-subsequent SREs). These three studies will form the basis of the clinical evidence package for denosumab in advanced cancer, which will be submitted to regulatory
authorities later in 2010. For more information, see “Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates.”

Patents and Competition

Our outstanding material patents for denosumab are described in the table below.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpiration(1)U.S.RANKL antibodies12/22/2017U.S.Methods of treatment11/11/2018U.S.RANKL antibodies11/28/2023EuropeRANKL antibodies12/22/2017EuropeMethods of treatment4/15/2018EuropeRANKL antibodies2/23/2021



(1)The expiration dates may be subject to change if delays in regulatory approval lead to extensions of patent terms in the United States and/or
supplemental protection in Europe.

The following table and discussion reflect other
companies and their currently marketed products that will compete with denosumab, if approved. This table and discussion of competitor marketed products and potential competitor products may not be exhaustive. Merck’s patent covering the use of
FOSAMAX®to treat bone loss expired in the United States in February 2008. Following the patent expiry, generic
alendronate (“ALN”) became available from Teva and other companies, which competes with FOSAMAX®.



Therapeutic AreaCompetitor Marketed ProductPotential CompetitorPMOFOSAMAX®MerckPMOActonel®Warner Chilcott/AventisPMOBoniva®/Bonviva®Roche/GSKPMOEvista®Eli LillyPMOForteo®/Forsteo™Eli LillyPMOMiacalcin®Novartis AG (“Novartis”)PMOAclasta®/Reclast®NovartisPMOConbriza®PfizerPMOFablyn®PfizerOncologyZometa®NovartisOncologyAredia®Novartis

Marketing and
Distribution

We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United States, Europe and Canada
to support our currently marketed products and in preparation of the launch of Prolia™. We market our products
to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. We also market certain products directly to consumers through direct-to-consumer print and television advertising, and also through the
Internet. In addition, for certain of our products, we promote programs to increase public awareness of the health risks associated with the diseases these products treat, as well as providing support to various patient education and support
programs in the related therapeutic areas.

In the United States, we sell primarily to wholesale
distributors of pharmaceutical products. We utilize these wholesale distributors as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers. In early 2008, ENBREL’s distribution model was converted from primarily being shipped
directly to pharmacies to a wholesale distribution model similar to our other products. In Europe, Aranesp®,
Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®are principally sold to healthcare providers and/or wholesalers depending upon the distribution practice in each country. We monitor the financial condition of our
larger customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits, requiring letters of credit and obtaining credit insurance, as we deem appropriate.







We had product sales to three large wholesaler customers each accounting for more than 10%
of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. On a combined basis, these distributors accounted for 71% and 88% of worldwide gross revenues and U.S. gross product sales, respectively, for 2009, as noted in the
following table (dollar amounts in millions):



Years ended December 31,200920082007AmerisourceBergen Corporation:Gross product sales$7,179$7,099$6,124% of total gross revenues37%37%31%% of U.S. gross product sales46%46%39%McKesson Corporation:Gross product sales$3,694$3,594$2,398% of total gross revenues19%19%12%% of U.S. gross product sales24%23%15%Cardinal Health, Inc.:Gross product sales$2,841$2,823$2,715% of total gross revenues15%15%14%% of U.S. gross product sales18%18%17%

We
have entered into certain co-promotion agreements to market our products in certain geographic areas. These agreements generally require us to share profits on product sales. Under a co-promotion agreement, we and Pfizer market ENBREL in the United
States and Canada for all approved indications. Under a co-promotion agreement with GSK, we and GSK will commercialize Amgen’s Prolia™in Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico, and GSK will commercialize denosumab, for all indications in countries where we do not currently have a commercial
presence (see “Business Relationships – GlaxoSmithKline plc”). Additionally, we have entered into agreements with third-parties to market certain of our products, including Aranesp®, Neulasta®and
NEUPOGEN®in certain geographic areas outside of the United States and to assist in marketing ENBREL in the
United States. In addition, we have granted J&J a license to commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in all markets other than dialysis (see “Business Relationships —
Johnson & Johnson”). We have also granted Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited (“Daiichi Sankyo”) a license to develop and commercialize denosumab in Japan in PMO, oncology and certain other indications (see “Business
Relationships — Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited”).

See “Government Regulation — FDA Regulation of
Product Marketing and Promotion” for a discussion of the government regulation over product marketing and promotion.

Reimbursement

Sales of all of our principal products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of
coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government and private insurance plans. Most patients receiving our products are covered by government healthcare programs or private insurers. Governments may regulate coverage,
reimbursement and/or pricing of our products to control costs or to affect levels of use of our products, and private insurers may adopt or be influenced by government coverage and reimbursement methodologies. Worldwide use of our products may be
affected by cost containment pressures and cost shifting from governments and private insurers to healthcare providers or patients in response to ongoing initiatives to reduce or reallocate healthcare expenditures. An increasing worldwide focus on
patient access controls and cost containment by public and private insurers has resulted, and may continue to result, in reduced reimbursement rates for our products. In addition, we believe that ongoing healthcare reform efforts will include
long-term changes to the coverage and reimbursement of our products which may have a significant impact on our business.

U.S.
Reimbursement System

Our principal products are predominantly sold in the United States and healthcare providers,
including doctors, hospitals and other healthcare professionals and providers are reimbursed for their services by the







government through Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs as well as through private payers. Government healthcare programs are funded primarily through the payment of taxes
from individuals and businesses. The public and private components of this multi-payer system are described below.

Medicare and Other Forms of Public Health Insurance

Medicare is a federal program administered by the federal
government that covers individuals age 65 and over as well as those with certain disabilities and ESRD, regardless of their age. The primary Medicare programs that affect reimbursement for our products are Medicare Part B, which covers physician
services and outpatient care, and Medicare Part D, which provides a voluntary outpatient prescription drug benefit. CMS is the federal agency responsible for administering Medicare (as well as Medicaid, described below) and, among its
responsibilities, has authority to issue Medicare national coverage decisions (“NCD”) as well as manual policy issuances and updates and codes for drugs and other items. Local Medicare contractors have authority to issue Local Coverage
Determinations. Generally, a NCD issued by CMS is a national policy statement granting, limiting or excluding Medicare coverage for a specific medical item or service.

Medicare Part B Coverage of Drugs and ESRD.Medicare Part B provides limited coverage of outpatient drugs and
biologicals that are furnished “incident to” a physician’s services. Generally, “incident to” drugs and biologicals are covered only if they satisfy certain criteria, including that they are of the type that is not usually
self-administered by the patient and they are reasonable and necessary for a medically accepted diagnosis or treatment. Medicare Part B also covers some drugs pursuant to a specific statutory directive, such as blood-clotting factors and certain
immunosuppressive drugs, erythropoietin and certain oral cancer drugs, if they fall under a specific statutory benefit category and they are “safe and effective” as established by FDA approval. Many of our principal products, including
EPOGEN®, Aranesp®, Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®, are currently covered under Medicare Part B (as well as other government healthcare programs). In addition, most
patients with ESRD, regardless of age, are eligible for coverage of dialysis treatment through the ESRD Program under Medicare Part B, the primary payer for dialysis treatment. Because Medicare Part B is the primary payer for dialysis treatment,
reimbursement for products, such as EPOGEN®, that are typically administered in dialysis centers and other
settings is particularly sensitive to changes in Medicare coverage and reimbursement policy.

Medicare
Part D.Medicare Part D provides a voluntary prescription drug benefit for Medicare eligible beneficiaries. This coverage is available through various private plans that provide insurance coverage for prescription drugs for a monthly premium.
The list of prescription drugs covered by Medicare Part D plans varies by plan, but drug lists maintained by individual plans must cover certain classes of drugs and biologicals, specifically the statute stipulates that Part D plans have at least
two drugs in each unique therapeutic category, subject to certain exceptions. Medicare patients who obtain ENBREL and Sensipar®under retail coverage, where they are primarily provided, are typically covered by Medicare Part D.

Medicaid.Medicaid is a joint federal and state program administered by individual states for low-income and disabled eligible
beneficiaries. CMS also has responsibility for federal administration of the Medicaid program. Under federal law, states must cover low-income adults and children, pregnant women, disabled individuals and seniors, and states have the option of
expanding eligibility beyond these groups of beneficiaries. Medicaid is financed jointly by the states and federal government through taxes. Medicaid offers a broad set of benefits, including prescription drugs. Medicaid includes the Drug Rebate
Program which requires manufacturers to provide rebates to the states for our products covered and reimbursed by state Medicaid programs. (See— “Government Regulation” and“Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our sales
depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.”)

Private Health Insurance

Employer-sponsored insurance.Employer-sponsored insurance represents the main pathway by which Americans receive private health
insurance. Many employers provide health insurance as part of the benefits package for employees. Insurance plans are administered by private companies, both for-profit and not-for-profit, and some companies are “self-insured” (i.e., they
pay for all healthcare costs incurred by employees directly through a plan administered by a third party). Generally, employer-sponsored insurance premiums are paid primarily by employers and secondarily by employees.







Individual market.The individual market covers part of the population that is
self-employed or retired. In addition, it covers some people who are unable to obtain insurance through their employer. In contrast to the employer-sponsored insurance, the individual market allows health insurance companies to deny people coverage
based on pre-existing conditions although a newly enacted law prohibits denial of coverage based on genetic discrimination. The plans are administered by private insurance companies. Individuals pay an out-of-pocket insurance premium for coverage
and benefits vary widely according to plan specifications.

Reimbursement of Our Principal Products

Aranesp®, Neulasta®and NEUPOGEN®.

®

®

®

Items 1A. Risk Factors — Our
sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers

Since January 1, 2005, in the physician
office setting under Part B, our products have been reimbursed at 106% of its ASP (sometimes referred to as “ASP+6%”). As of January 1, 2009, Medicare payment in the hospital outpatient setting reimbursed each product ASP+4% which is
lower than the payment rate was in 2008 (ASP+5%) or from 2006-2007 (ASP+6%). In 2010, the payment methodologies in both the hospital outpatient and physician office settings are at the same levels from 2009 (ASP+6% in the physician office setting
and ASP+4% in the hospital outpatient setting), pursuant to the 2010 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Final Rule and the 2010 Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment Final Rule. CMS has the regulatory authority to further adjust the outpatient
hospital payment formula in future years. The extent to which commercial payers adopt the use of ASP as a payment methodology is still evolving and is often based on the relationship between the provider and the insurer.

Dialysis Reimbursement.

®

®

®

®







comment period ended on December 16, 2009. The bundled reimbursement rate will be phased in over a four year period in equal increments starting in 2011. Providers have the option to move to
a full Medicare bundled payment system in 2011 or may elect to adopt certain components of the bundled payment system beginning in 2010. CMS will also be required to establish a quality incentive program that begins concurrently with bundling in
2011. Beginning in 2012, facilities would be subject to up to a 2% annual reduction in Medicare reimbursement for failure to meet or exceed CMS quality performance standards, including performance standards related to anemia management and dialysis
adequacy. Bundling initiatives that have been implemented in other healthcare settings have occasionally resulted in lower utilization of services that had not previously been a part of the bundled payment.

ESA Reimbursement Developments.

®

®

®

®

®







Enbrel®Reimbursement.The majority of prescription claims for ENBREL are paid through private insurance companies. Under Medicare, ENBREL is reimbursed through the Part
D program, although less then 10% of all ENBREL U.S. prescriptions are reimbursed by Medicare.

Healthcare Reform.Healthcare reform, focused on expanding healthcare coverage to millions of uninsured Americans and reducing the rate of increase in the costs of healthcare, remains a priority for President Obama, U.S. Congress and a number of states.
Developments in this area have been highly dynamic and difficult to predict. As recently as February 23, 2010, President Obama released a new proposal for healthcare reform which includes a combination of provisions from both the Senate and House of
Representatives bills passed in late 2009. Certain healthcare reform proposals being considered, which may or may not be adopted into law, could:



•restrict the coverage and reimbursement of our products by Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs



•reduce the number of years of data exclusivity for innovative biological products potentially leading to earlier biosimilar competition and/or



•require additional healthcare reform costs to be borne by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.

At this time, we cannot predict which or whether any reform measures will be adopted into law.

Reimbursement Outside the United States

Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United States, the government-sponsored healthcare system has traditionally been the primary payer for all healthcare costs, including payment for
drugs and biologicals. Over the past several years, the reimbursement environment in Europe has become very challenging, with the advent of Health Technology Assessment (“HTA”) organizations (e.g., National Institute for Health and
Clinical Excellence (“NICE”) in the United Kingdom) that make recommendations and/or determinations of coverage and reimbursement based upon both the clinical as well as the economic value of a product. Although the methods employed by
different HTA agencies differ from country to country, the use of formal economic metrics has been increasing across Europe as well as in several emerging markets throughout the world.

With increased budgetary constraints, payers in many countries employ a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure. In some
countries, international price referencing is the primary mechanism for price control in which the ceiling price of a pharmaceutical or biological product is set based to the price in particular benchmark countries. These price referencing rules are
increasing in complexity as prices are more transparent and payers seek lower-price benchmarks against which to compare themselves. Additional cost-containment measures can include therapeutic reference pricing, including setting the reimbursement
rate for a given class of agents at the lowest price within the class, generic substitution and government-mandated price cuts. In many countries, the influence of regional and hospital payers also contributes to whether patients have access to
certain products. For example, a product may be successfully listed on a national formulary, but may also be subject to further evaluations or competitive bidding by payers at a regional or hospital level. Finally, payers in some countries are
beginning to experiment with alternative pricing mechanisms (e.g., payment caps) that facilitate greater predictability of payer budgets and require manufacturers to assume some financial risk.

Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials

Manufacturing

Biotechnology products, which are
produced in living systems, are inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory scale processes into
reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing operations consist of bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish and distribution activities for Aranesp®, Epoetin alfa, Neulasta®,
NEUPOGEN®, ENBREL, Vectibix®, Nplate®and other products
and product candidates, including denosumab, for both commercial and clinical purposes. Bulk manufacturing includes fermentation and cell culture, which are the processes by which our proteins are produced. The proteins are purified to a high
quality and then formulated into a stable form. The fill process dispenses the formulated bulk protein into vials or syringes. Finally, in the finish process, our products are packaged for distribution.







We operate commercial and clinical manufacturing facilities in several
locations throughout the United States, Puerto Rico and the Netherlands (see “Item 2. Properties”). Manufacturing of Sensipar®, our small molecule product, is performed entirely by third-party contract manufacturers. We also use and expect to continue to use third-party contract manufacturers
to produce or assist in the production of certain of our large molecule marketed products, including ENBREL and Nplate®, and a number of our clinical product candidates, including denosumab.

The global supply of our principal products is
dependent on actively managing the inventory produced at our facilities and by third-party contract manufacturers and the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities. During the manufacturing scale-up process, and even
after achieving sustainable commercial manufacturing, we may encounter difficulties or disruptions due to defects in raw materials or equipment, contamination or other factors which may impact product availability. (See“Item 1A. Risk
Factors — Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.”)

We have obtained from various parties licenses that we deem to be necessary or desirable for the manufacture of our products. These licenses generally require us to pay royalties to the licensors based on
product sales.

Commercial Bulk Manufacturing

We operate commercial bulk manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico and in several locations throughout the United States (see “Item
2. Properties”). Other than for ENBREL, we perform all of the commercial bulk manufacturing for our proteins. We supplement our own bulk manufacturing of ENBREL with a third-party contract manufacturer.

In addition to producing our own commercial quantities of bulk Epoetin alfa, we also supply bulk Epoetin alfa in the United States to J&J
under a supply agreement (see “Business Relationships — Johnson & Johnson”).

Commercial
Formulation, Fill and Finish Manufacturing

Our primary commercial formulation, fill and finish
manufacturing facility is located in Puerto Rico. In addition, we operate a commercial formulation, fill and finish manufacturing facility in California for Vectibix®and conduct certain finish activities in the Netherlands (see “Item 2. Properties”). Other than for Nplate®, we perform substantially all of our commercial formulation, fill and finish activities for our proteins in Puerto Rico. The formulation, fill and
finish for Nplate®is performed by a third-party contract manufacturer. In addition to the formulation, fill and
finish of ENBREL performed by us in Puerto Rico, fill and finish of a certain portion of ENBREL is also performed by third-party contract manufacturers (see “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We manufacture and formulate, fill and finish
substantially all our products at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at this facility, we may not be able to supply these products”).

Clinical Manufacturing

Clinical bulk, formulation, fill and finish manufacturing facilities are operated in several locations throughout the United States and in Puerto Rico (see “Item 2. Properties”). Certain
finishing activities for our clinical products are performed in the Netherlands. In addition, we also utilize third-party contract manufacturers for certain of our clinical products.

Distribution

We operate distribution centers in the United States,
principally in Kentucky and California, and the Netherlands for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and clinical products. In addition, we also use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our commercial and
clinical products in certain areas of the world.







Other

In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities noted above, our operations in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Netherlands perform key manufacturing support functions, including
quality control, process development, procurement, distribution and production scheduling. Certain of these manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated by the FDA and other international regulatory agencies (see
“Government Regulation — FDA Regulation of Manufacturing Standards”).

In preparation
for the anticipated launch of Prolia™, we have performed bulk manufacturing at our Boulder, Colorado
manufacturing facility and formulation, fill and finish manufacturing activities in Puerto Rico. We also have an agreement with a third-party contract manufacturer that allows us to supplement, if necessary, our own bulk manufacturing activities of
denosumab. In addition, in order to assist in meeting anticipated future demand, we are expanding our Puerto Rico bulk protein facilities to manufacture denosumab, as discussed below.

Manufacturing Initiatives

We have certain key ongoing initiatives to
assist in meeting our future manufacturing needs. To maintain supply, mitigate risks associated with the majority of our formulation, fill and finish operations being performed in a single facility, and to satisfy anticipated future demand for a
number of our late-stage product candidates, in particular denosumab, we are completing the construction and qualification of a new formulation and filling facility at our Puerto Rico site and the expansion and qualification of our existing bulk
protein facilities at our Puerto Rico site. Upon completion, these facilities will require licensure by the various regulatory authorities. In addition to these projects, we have initiatives designed to operate our facilities at appropriate
production capacity over the next few years, optimize manufacturing asset utilization, continue our use of third-party contract manufacturers and maintain a state of regulatory compliance. (See“Item 1A. Risk Factors — Manufacturing
difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.”)

Raw Materials and Medical
Devices

Certain raw materials necessary for the commercial and clinical manufacturing of our products are provided by
single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. Also, certain medical devices and components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. Certain of these raw
materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of these unaffiliated third-party suppliers and, in some cases, such proprietary products are specifically cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that they
must be obtained from the specific sole source and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such sole-sourced suppliers by
inventory management, relationship management and evaluating alternate sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial condition of certain suppliers, their ability to supply our needs and the market conditions for these items.

Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other countries
and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. In addition, one of our marketed products also includes bovine serum and human serum albumin (“HSA”). We continue to investigate alternatives to biological sources and
alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use of biologically-sourced raw materials as such raw materials may be subject to contamination and/or recall. Also, some countries in which we market our products may restrict the use of
certain biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. A material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restriction of the use of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from other
countries, used in the manufacture of our products could adversely impact or disrupt the commercial manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated withdrawal of our products from the market. (See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We
rely on single-source third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.”)

We
perform various procedures to assist in authenticating the source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used in the manufacture of our products, which include verification of the country of origin. These procedures are incorporated into
the manufacturing processes performed by us and our third-party contract manufacturers.







Business Relationships

From time to time, we enter into business relationships including, joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for the R&D,
manufacture and/or commercialization of products and product candidates. In addition, we also acquire product rights and have established R&D collaborations with third-parties to enhance our R&D capabilities and internally developed product
pipeline. These arrangements may provide for non-refundable, upfront license fees, R&D and commercial performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing. Our collaboration agreements with third parties are
performed on a “best efforts” basis with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success.

Trade
secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require parties to business relationships to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of the
business relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or obtain access to our information.

Kirin Holdings Company, Limited

We formed KA, a 50-50
joint venture with Kirin in 1984. KA develops and commercializes certain of our and Kirin’s product rights, which have been transferred to this joint venture. KA has given exclusive licenses to us to manufacture and market: (i) darbepoetin
alfa in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East, (ii) pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in the United States, Europe,
Canada, Australia and New Zealand, (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in the United States and (iv) romiplostim in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain
Central Asian, African and Middle East countries. We currently market darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, G-CSF, recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim under the brand names Aranesp®, Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®/GRANULOKINE®, EPOGEN®and Nplate®, respectively.

KA has also given exclusive licenses to Kirin to manufacture and market: (i) darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, G-CSF and romiplostim in Japan, the People’s Republic of China (“China”),
Taiwan, Korea and certain other countries in Asia, (ii) pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in Japan, China, Taiwan and Korea and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in Japan and China. Kirin markets darbepoetin alfa in Japan under the brand name
NESP®. Kirin markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in China under separate agreements with KA.
Kirin markets its G-CSF product in its respective territories under the trademark GRAN®/Grasin®/Filgrastim®. Kirin markets its recombinant human erythropoietin product in Japan under the trademark ESPO®. Kirin also markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in China under a separate agreement with Amgen Greater China Ltd., a subsidiary of Amgen Inc.

KA has licensed to J&J rights to recombinant human erythropoietin in all geographic areas of the world outside the United
States, China and Japan (see “—Johnson & Johnson”). Under its agreement with KA, J&J pays a royalty to KA based on sales. KA has also licensed to Roche rights to pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in certain geographic areas
of the world.

In connection with our various license agreements with KA, we pay KA royalties based on product sales. In
addition, we also receive payment from KA for conducting certain R&D activities on its behalf (see Note 8, “Related party transactions” to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

Johnson & Johnson

We granted J&J a license to commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in all indications other than dialysis and diagnostics. All recombinant human
erythropoietin sold by J&J in the United States is manufactured by us and sold by J&J under the trademark PROCRIT®(Epoetin alfa). PROCRIT®brand Epoetin alfa is identical to EPOGEN®brand Epoetin alfa, which is manufactured and sold by us in the U.S.
market for the dialysis indication. Pursuant to the license agreement with J&J, we earn a 10% royalty on net sales of PROCRIT®by J&J in the United States.







Outside the United States, with the exception of China and Japan,
J&J was granted rights to manufacture and commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human therapeutic for all uses under a licensing agreement with KA. With respect to its sales outside of the United States, J&J manufactures and
commercializes its own brand of Epoetin alfa which is then sold by a subsidiary of J&J under various trademarks such as EPREX®and ERYPO®. We are not
involved in the manufacture of Epoetin alfa sold by J&J outside of the United States.

Pfizer Inc.

Amgen and Pfizer are in a collaboration agreement to co-promote ENBREL in the United States and Canada. The rights to market ENBREL outside
of the United States and Canada are reserved to Pfizer. Under the agreement, a management committee comprised of equal representation from Amgen and Pfizer is responsible for overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL, including strategic
planning, the approval of an annual marketing plan, product pricing and the establishment of a brand team. The brand team, with equal representation from each party, prepares and implements the annual marketing plan, which requires a minimum level
of financial and sales personnel commitment from each party, and is responsible for all sales activities. Further, pursuant to the co-promotion agreement, Pfizer and Amgen each pay a defined percentage of all selling and marketing expenses approved
by the joint management committee. In addition, we pay Pfizer a percentage of the annual gross profits on our ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada attributable to all approved indications for ENBREL on a scale that increases as gross profits
increase; however, we maintain a majority share of ENBREL profits.

GlaxoSmithKline plc

In July 2009, we entered into a collaboration agreement with GSK for the commercialization of our late-stage product candidate,
denosumab, in Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico (the “Primary Territories”) for osteoporosis indications. We will commercialize denosumab for all indications in the United States and Canada and for oncology indications in the
Primary Territories. GSK will commercialize denosumab for all indications in countries where we do not currently have a commercial presence, including China, Brazil, India, Taiwan and South Korea (the “Expansion Territories”). In the
Expansion Territories, GSK will be responsible for all development and commercialization costs and will purchase denosumab from us to meet demand. We have the option of expanding our role in the commercialization of denosumab in the Primary
Territories and certain of the Expansion Territories in the future. In the Primary Territories, we will share equally in commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting for expenses, including an amount payable to
us in recognition of our discovery and development of denosumab that will decline as certain sales thresholds are met. GSK will also be responsible for bearing a portion of the cost of certain specified development activities.

Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited

In February 2008, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited
(“Takeda”), which provides them the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize for the Japanese market up to 12 clinical stage molecules, including Vectibix®, from our pipeline across a range of therapeutic areas, including oncology and inflammation. We have the right to participate in the promotion of these products in
Japan. In addition, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Takeda for the worldwide development and commercialization of our product candidate motesanib in the oncology area. Each party has the right to participate in the commercialization
of motesanib in the other party’s territory.

Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited

In July 2007, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Daiichi Sankyo, which provides them the exclusive rights to develop
and commercialize our late-stage product candidate, denosumab, in Japan in PMO, oncology and certain other indications. As part of the agreement, Amgen received exclusive worldwide rights to certain Daiichi Sankyo intellectual property to the extent
applicable to denosumab.







Fresenius Medical Care North America

In October 2006, we entered into a five-year sole sourcing and supply agreement with an affiliate of Fresenius Medical Care North America
(“Fresenius North America”) (a wholly owned subsidiary of Fresenius Medical Care), on its behalf and on behalf of certain of its affiliates, whereby they have agreed to purchase, and we have agreed to supply, all of Fresenius North
America’s commercial requirements for ESAs for use in managing the anemia of its hemodialysis patients in the United States and Puerto Rico, based on forecasts provided by Fresenius and subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement.

Government Regulation

Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of our products and our ongoing R&D activities.

In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and
effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies. In the United States, the Public Health Service Act, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and other federal and state
statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the raw materials and components used in the production of, research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion,
and distribution of our products on a product-by-product basis. The failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to a variety of administrative and/or judicially imposed sanctions. These sanctions could include the
FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawals of approvals, delay or suspension of clinical trials, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil
penalties and/or criminal prosecution.

Clinical Development.We must conduct extensive clinical trials designed to
establish the safety and efficacy of product candidates in order to file for regulatory approval to market a product. Product development and approval within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves our expenditure of
substantial resources, and any approval we obtain remains costly for us to maintain. After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, we file an investigational new drug (“IND”) application with the FDA to begin human testing.
The IND application automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA raises concerns or questions. In such a case, we and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin.

Typically, we undertake a three-phase human clinical testing program. In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to
investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product candidates in a small number of human subjects. In phase 2, we conduct clinical trials to investigate side effect profiles and efficacy of our product candidates in a larger number of
patients who have the disease or condition under study. In phase 3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study. The
time and expense required for us to perform this clinical testing is substantial and may vary by product. For example, the clinical trials for the BLA for Prolia

TM

were large and required substantial time and resources to recruit patients and significant expense to execute.
Historically, our products have required smaller, shorter trials. Foreign studies performed under an IND must meet the same requirements that apply to U.S. studies. The FDA will accept a foreign clinical study not conducted under an IND only if the
study is well-designed, well-conducted, performed by qualified investigators, and conforms to good clinical practice. Phase 1, 2 and 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified time period, if at all. (See “Item 1A. Risk
Factors — We may not be able to develop commercial products.”) The FDA monitors the progress of each trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion, re-evaluate, alter, suspend, or terminate the testing based upon the
data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s risk/benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in the trial. (See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell
any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications.”)

Applications. The results of
preclinical and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for biologic products subject to the Public Health Service Act or a new drug application (“NDA”) for drugs subject







to the approval provisions of the FDCA. The submission of the application is no guarantee that the FDA will find it complete and accept it for filing. If an application is accepted for filing,
following the FDA’s review, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application if it determines that the application does not provide an adequate basis for approval. We cannot take any action to market
any new drug or biologic product in the United States until our appropriate marketing application has been approved by the FDA.

Post-approval Phase.

The FDAAA also gave the FDA authority to require companies to implement a REMS for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh
the risks. The FDA may require the submission of a REMS before a product is approved or after approval based on new safety information, including new analyses of existing safety information. In determining whether a product will require a REMS, the
FDA may consider a number of factors including:



•estimated size of the population likely to use the product



•seriousness of the condition treated and expected benefits of the product



•duration of treatment with the product



•seriousness of known or potential adverse events associated with the product



•whether the product is a new molecular entity.

All REMS are required to have a timetable for assessment and may have one or more of the following three elements:



•distribution of a medication guide or a patient package insert to patients



•communication plan for the healthcare provider, such as a Dear Healthcare Professional Letter



•elements to ensure safe use including, but not limited to



¡specific training, experience or certification for prescribers



¡certification of medication dispensing sites and dispensing in limited settings



¡monitoring of specific patients



¡enrollment of patients in a registry.







Each REMS is unique and varies depending on the specific factors
required. Failure to comply with a REMS, including the submission of a required assessment or any modification to a REMS, may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties. We currently have approved REMS for our ESAs, ENBREL and Nplate®. Additionally, in response to the FDA’s request, under authority prescribed by the FDAAA, we are currently in
discussions with the FDA regarding an update to the existing REMS for ENBREL and a REMS for our product candidate ProliaTM.

“Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our ESA products continue to be under review and receive scrutiny by regulatory authorities.”

— Our current
products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval.”

The FDA also uses various advisory committees of external experts to assist in its mission to protect and promote the public health, to obtain independent expert advice on scientific, technical and policy matters. The committees are
generally advisory only and FDA officials are not bound to or limited by their recommendations. We have participated in meetings of the ODAC, the CRDAC and the ACRHD, among others, to address certain issues related to Aranesp®, EPOGEN®and ProliaTM, respectively. The FDA has also announced that it will call an advisory committee meeting in 2010 to re-evaluate the use of ESAs to treat anemia in patients with CKD and the advisory committee could
consider lowering targeted Hb levels and reducing approved dosing for ESAs.

FDA Regulation of Product Marketing and
Promotion. The FDA closely reviews and regulates the marketing and promotion of products. We are required to gain FDA approval before marketing or promoting a product as a treatment for a particular indication. Our product promotion for approved
product indications must comply with the statutory standards of the FDCA, and the FDA’s implementing regulations and standards. The FDA’s review of marketing and promotional activities encompasses, but is not limited to, direct-to-consumer
advertising, healthcare provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional activities involving the Internet. The FDA may also review
industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product (“off-label promotion”) or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws
and regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to
comply with the FDA regulations also can result in adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the U.S. Congress or other legislators.

FDA Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. The FDA regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products prior to providing
approval to market a product. If after receiving clearance from the FDA, we make a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing
Practice (“GMP”) regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA also conducts regular, periodic visits to re-inspect our equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes
following an initial approval. If, as a result of these inspections, the FDA determines that our equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and conditions of product approval, the FDA may seek
civil, criminal or administrative sanctions and/or remedies against us, including the suspension of our manufacturing operations.







Approval and Post-Approval Regulation Outside the United States.

Other







quarters, depending on the direction of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates, if we were found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, in addition to other
penalties available to the government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. There are also proposals related to both the Medicaid drug rebate program and the PHS drug pricing
program as part of healthcare reform which could significantly alter the programs.

We are also subject to regulation under the
Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other current and potential future federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations. Our R&D activities involve the
controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials and various radioactive compounds. We believe that our procedures comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations; however, the
risk of injury or accidental contamination cannot be completely eliminated. While we are not required to do so, we strive to conduct our research and manufacturing activities in a manner that meets the intents and purposes of the National Institutes
of Health Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research.

Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(“FCPA”) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to
obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA would include interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign
laws, rules and/or regulations.

Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates

Our vision is to deliver therapeutics that can make a meaningful difference in patients’ lives. Therefore, we focus our R&D on novel
human therapeutics for the treatment of grievous illness in the areas of oncology, hematology, inflammation, bone, nephrology and general medicine, which includes cardiology and neurology. We take a modality-independent approach to R&D —
that is, we identify targets, and then choose the modality best suited to address a specific target. As such, our discovery research programs may yield targets that lead to the development of human therapeutics delivered as large molecules (such as
proteins, antibodies and peptibodies) or small molecules.

To execute our clinical trial programs, we need to maintain an
effective development organization and associated R&D support organizations. We conduct clinical trial activities with both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial service providers. In order to increase the number of patients
available for enrollment for







our clinical trials, we have and will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of geographic locations. (See“Item 1A. Risk Factors — We must conduct
clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications.”)

We have major R&D centers in several locations throughout the United States and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller research centers in Canada and Germany, and smaller development facilities
throughout Europe and in Canada, Australia, Mexico, Hong Kong and India (see “Item 2. Properties”).

In
addition to product candidates and marketed products generated from our internal R&D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and technology rights and establish R&D collaborations with third parties, which enhance
our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These licenses and collaboration agreements generally provide for non-refundable, upfront license
fees, R&D and commercial performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing. (See “Business Relationships” and Note 3, “Acquisitions” to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R&D in areas where we have products or where we are developing product
candidates or new indications for existing products. For example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, which may limit the number of available patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. The competitive
marketplace for our product candidates is significantly dependent upon the timing of entry into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance, contributing to the product’s eventual success and
profitability. Accordingly, we expect that in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market is expected to be
important to our competitive position.

Various public and privately owned companies, research organizations, academic
institutions and governmental agencies conduct a significant amount of R&D in the biotechnology industry. We face competition in pursuing collaborative arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities from other pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies that also seek to license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed products from these entities. Accordingly, we may have difficulty entering into collaborative arrangements and licensing or acquiring
technologies, product candidates and marketed products on acceptable terms.

See “Government Regulation — Clinical
Development” for a discussion of the government regulation over clinical development.







The following table is a selection of certain of our product candidates by phase of
development in our therapeutic areas of focus as of February 5, 2010. Each target indication for product candidates in phase 3 is listed separately. For products in phase 1 and 2, the most advanced indication is shown. Additional product
candidate (pipeline) information can be found on our website at http://www.amgen.com. (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.)





MoleculeDisease/ConditionTherapeutic Area

Phase 3 Programs

Sensipar®(cinacalcet)Cardiovascular disease in patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism and chronic kidney disease undergoing maintenance dialysisNephrology

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)Anemia in heart failureNephrology

Prolia™ (denosumab)Postmenopausal osteoporosisBone

DenosumabMale osteoporosisBone

DenosumabCancer-related bone damage (skeletal-related events) from advanced malignancies in breast cancer, prostate cancer and solid
tumors including multiple myelomaHematology/Oncology

DenosumabPrevention of bone metastases in prostate cancerHematology/Oncology

DenosumabPrevention of bone metastases in breast cancerHematology/Oncology

Prolia™(denosumab)Bone loss induced by hormone ablation therapy in breast cancer or prostate cancerHematology/Oncology

MotesanibFirst-line non-small cell lung cancerHematology/Oncology

Vectibix®(panitumumab)First- and second-line colorectal cancerHematology/Oncology

Vectibix®(panitumumab)Metastatic and/or recurrent head and neck cancerHematology/Oncology



Phase 2 Programs

AMG 102Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 108Rheumatoid arthritisInflammation

AMG 222Type 2 diabetesGeneral Medicine

AMG 223HyperphosphatemiaNephrology

AMG 386Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 479Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 785Bone-related conditions, including postmenopausal osteoporosis and fracture healingBone

AMG 827Inflammatory diseasesInflammation

AMG 853AsthmaInflammation

Conatumumab (AMG 655)Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

DenosumabRheumatoid arthritisInflammation

Dulanermin (rhApo2L/TRAIL)Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

MotesanibFirst-line breast cancerHematology/Oncology

Omecamtiv mecarbil (AMG 423)Heart failureGeneral Medicine

Vectibix®(panitumumab)Locally advanced head and neck cancerHematology/Oncology

Nplate®(romiplostim)Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia in non-small cell lung cancer and lymphomaHematology/Oncology

Nplate®(romiplostim)Myelodysplastic syndromesHematology/Oncology



Phase 1 Programs

AMG 145HypercholesterolemiaGeneral Medicine

AMG 151Type 2 diabetesGeneral Medicine

AMG 157AsthmaInflammation

AMG 167Bone-related conditionsBone

AMG 191Inflammatory diseasesInflammation

AMG 208Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 221Type 2 diabetesGeneral Medicine

AMG 557Systemic lupus erythematosusInflammation

AMG 745Muscle-wasting disordersGeneral Medicine

AMG 747NeuroscienceGeneral Medicine

AMG 761AsthmaInflammation

AMG 811Systemic lupus erythematosusInflammation

AMG 820Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 888Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 900Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology



Phase 1clinical trials investigate safety and proper dose ranges of a product candidate in a small number of human subjects.



Phase 2clinical trials investigate side effect profiles and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.



Phase 3clinical trials investigate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.







The following text provides additional information about selected product candidates that
have advanced into human clinical trials.

AMG 102

AMG 102 is a fully human monoclonal antibody that blocks the action of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor. It is being investigated as a
cancer treatment.

Phase 2 studies of single agent AMG 102 for renal cell carcinoma (“RCC”) and glioblastoma
multiforme (“GBM”) were completed in 2009. Limited efficacy was seen in GBM and RCC when AMG 102 was administered in monotherapy, and the effect size was not large enough to warrant moving forward with late-stage studies in these
monotherapy indications.

Phase 2 combination studies with AMG 102 in the gastric, prostate, mCRC and small cell lung cancer
settings continue. We expect data from the phase 2 study in mCRC to be available in 2010.

AMG 108

AMG 108 is a fully human monoclonal antibody that targets inhibition of the action of interleukin-1 (“IL-1”).

AMG 222

AMG 222 is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of DPP-IV. It is being investigated as a treatment of type 2 diabetes. AMG 222 is being developed in partnership with Servier.

In July 2009, we received results from a phase 2a study of AMG 222 in patients with type 2 diabetes. The results support continued phase 2
development of AMG 222.

AMG 223

AMG 223 is an orally-administered polymer which binds phosphate. It is being investigated as a treatment of hyperphosphatemia in CKD patients on hemodialysis.

AMG 386

AMG 386 is a peptibody that binds to and inhibits angiopoietin 1 and 2. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In 2007 and 2008, we initiated five randomized phase 2 studies of AMG 386 for the treatment of RCC, metastatic breast cancer, ovarian cancer, gastric cancer and colorectal cancer, and numerous other supportive studies. Based on study
results, we plan to initiate a phase 3 trial in ovarian cancer. We expect the results from these other randomized phase 2 studies to be available in 2010 and 2011.

AMG 479

AMG 479 is a fully human monoclonal antibody antagonist of IGF-1
receptor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In 2007, we initiated a phase 2 study of AMG 479 as a potential
cancer therapeutic in Ewing’s sarcoma. We also initiated, in 2008, phase 2 studies for the treatment of advanced breast, pancreatic, colorectal and small cell lung cancers. We received the results from the phase 2 pancreatic cancer study in the
second half of 2009 and we plan to present the results at an upcoming medical meeting. We expect the results from the phase 2 Ewing’s sarcoma, metastatic breast cancer and mCRC studies to be available in 2010.

AMG 785

AMG 785 is a humanized monoclonal antibody that targets sclerostin, a protein secreted by bone cells that inhibits bone formation. AMG 785 (also known as CDP7851) is being developed in collaboration with UCB for bone-related conditions,
including PMO and fracture healing.







In 2009, we initiated phase 2 studies of AMG 785 for the treatment of PMO and fracture
healing.

AMG 827

AMG 827 is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to and blocks signaling via the interleukin-17 (“IL-17”) receptor. It is being investigated as a treatment for a variety of inflammatory
disorders.

In 2009, we initiated phase 2 studies of AMG 827 as a potential treatment for psoriasis and RA. We expect data from
the phase 2 study in psoriasis to be available in 2010.

AMG 853

AMG 853 is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of the CRTH2 and D-prostanoid receptors of prostaglandin D2. It is being
investigated as a treatment for asthma.

Phase 1 single- and multiple-ascending dose studies have been completed. A global,
randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, multiple dose phase 2 study in subjects with inadequately controlled asthma was initiated in December 2009.

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)

Aranesp®is a recombinant human protein agonist of the erythropoietic receptor.

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

The Reduction of Events with Darbepoetin alfa in Heart Failure (“RED-HF™”) Trial phase 3 study, initiated in 2006, is a large (2,600 subjects), global, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the
effect of treatment of anemia with darbepoetin alfa on morbidity and mortality in patients with symptomatic left ventricular heart failure. The RED-HF™Trial continues to enroll subjects. On December 8, 2009, the RED-HF™Trial Data Monitoring Committee (“DMC”) reviewed approximately 43% of the target number of primary endpoints. After careful review of outcomes and adverse
events, including the results of TREAT (which was conducted in subjects with CKD, anemia and type 2 diabetes who were not receiving dialysis), the RED-HF™Trial DMC recommended that the study continue as designed.

Conatumumab (AMG 655)

Conatumumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody
agonist that targets death receptor 5 (“DR5”) and induces apoptosis in sensitive tumor cells. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

We received the results from the phase 2 NSCLC and the soft tissue sarcoma studies in the second half of 2009 and we continue to analyze the data. We also received results from the phase 2 pancreatic
cancer study and we plan to present the results at an upcoming medical meeting. We expect data from an on-going phase 2 study in mCRC to be available in 2010.







Dulanermin (rhApo2L/TRAIL)

Dulanermin is a recombinant human protein that targets death receptors 4 (“DR4”) and DR5 and induces apoptosis in sensitive tumor
cells. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment. We are developing this molecule in collaboration with Genentech, Inc., a wholly owned member of the Roche Group.

Phase 2 data from the non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma and NSCLC studies have been analyzed and we plan to present the results at an upcoming medical meeting.

Denosumab

Denosumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that specifically targets a ligand known as RANKL (that binds to a receptor known as RANK) which is a key mediator of osteoclast formation, function and survival. Denosumab is being studied
across a range of conditions including osteoporosis, treatment-induced bone loss, bone metastases, multiple myeloma and RA.

The overall denosumab program remains on track with all completed phase 3 trials for denosumab having met all primary endpoints. The following chart is an overview of the phase 3 clinical development program for denosumab:



Program AreaIndicationEnrollmentStatusProjected Data AvailabilityOsteoporosisPMO Treatment (versus placebo)CompleteReceivedOsteoporosisPMO Treatment (versus ALN)CompleteReceivedOsteoporosisPMO PreventionCompleteReceivedOsteoporosisPMO Transition (from ALN)CompleteReceivedOsteoporosisMale OsteoporosisEnrolling2012OncologyTreatment-Induced Bone Loss-Prostate CancerCompleteReceivedOncologyTreatment-Induced Bone Loss-Breast CancerCompleteReceivedOncologyBone Metastases-Prostate CancerComplete2010(1)OncologyBone Metastases-Breast CancerApprovedTBD(2)OncologySkeletal-Related Events-Breast CancerCompleteReceivedOncologySkeletal-Related Events-Solid Tumors/multiple myelomaCompleteReceivedOncologySkeletal-Related Events-Prostate CancerCompleteReceived



(1)Event-driven study and consequently data availability may vary as a result

(2)TBD = to be determined

In 2009, we announced that a pivotal, phase 3, head-to-head trial evaluating denosumab versus Zometa®in the treatment of bone metastases in 2,046 patients with advanced breast cancer met its primary endpoint (non-inferiority compared to Zometa®) and secondary endpoints (superiority compared to Zometa®). Superior efficacy compared to Zometa®was demonstrated for both delaying the time to the first on-study SREs (fracture, radiation to bone, surgery to bone or spinal cord compression) (HR: 0.82 [95% CI
0.71 - 0.95]), and delaying the time to the first-and-subsequent SREs (HR: 0.77 [95% CI 0.66 - 0.89]). Both results were statistically significant in this 34 month study. The median time to first on-study SRE was not reached for denosumab and
therefore could not be estimated. The median time to first on-study SRE was 26.5 months for Zometa®, the current
standard of care. Overall, the incidence of adverse events and serious adverse events was consistent with what has previously been reported for these two agents. Of note, osteonecrosis of the jaw (“ONJ”), which had not been observed in
previously reported phase 3 studies with denosumab, was seen infrequently in both treatment groups (20 patients receiving denosumab as compared with 14 patients receiving Zometa®). There was no statistically significant difference in the rate of ONJ between the two treatment arms. Infectious adverse events were balanced between the two
treatment arms, as was OS and the time to cancer progression.

In 2009, we also announced that a pivotal,
phase 3, head-to-head trial evaluating denosumab administered subcutaneously versus Zometa®administered as an
intravenous infusion in the treatment of bone metastases in 1,776 advanced cancer patients with solid tumors (not including breast and prostate cancer) or multiple myeloma







met its primary endpoint. For the primary endpoint of this study, the median time to first on-study SRE (fracture, radiation to bone, surgery to bone or spinal cord compression) was 20.6 months
for those patients receiving denosumab and 16.3 months for those patients receiving Zometa®(HR: 0.84, 95% CI:
0.71-0.98), which is statistically significant for non-inferiority (p=0.0007). Although numerically greater, the delay in the time to first SRE associated with denosumab was not statistically superior compared to Zometa®based upon the statistical testing strategy (adjusted p=0.06) (secondary endpoint). The time to first-and-subsequent
SRE was also numerically greater but not statistically superior compared to Zometa®(HR: 0.90 [95% CI 0.77 -
1.04]) (secondary endpoint). Overall, the incidence of adverse events and serious adverse events was consistent with what has previously been reported for these two agents. Rates of ONJ were balanced and infrequent in both treatment groups (10
patients receiving denosumab as compared with 11 patients receiving Zometa®). Infectious adverse events were
balanced between the two treatment arms, as was OS and the time to cancer progression.

On February 8,
2010, we announced that a pivotal, phase 3, head-to-head trial evaluating denosumab versus Zometa®in the
treatment of bone metastases in 1,901 men with advanced prostate cancer met its primary endpoint of non-inferiority in time to first SRE and its secondary endpoints (superiority compared to Zometa®for both delaying the time to the first on-study SRE and delaying the time to the first-and-subsequent SREs). Denosumab demonstrated superiority over
Zometa®for both delaying the time to the first on-study SREs (fracture, radiation to bone, surgery to bone or
spinal cord compression) (HR: 0.82 [95% CI 0.71 - 0.95]), and delaying the time to the first-and-subsequent SREs (HR: 0.82 [95% CI 0.71 - 0.94]). Both results were statistically significant. Overall rates of adverse events and serious adverse
events, including infections, were generally similar between the two arms. ONJ was infrequent (22 patients receiving denosumab as compared with 12 patients receiving Zometa®) and there was no statistically significant difference between treatment arms. As with previous studies in advanced cancer patients, hypocalcemia was more frequent in
the denosumab arm. Both OS and the time to cancer progression were balanced between treatment arms.

The phase 3 ‘147
study evaluating denosumab in patients with non-metastatic prostate cancer to prevent bone metastases is ongoing. We expect to receive the results from this study the second half of 2010.

Motesanib

Motesanib is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1, 2 and 3, platelet-derived growth factor receptor and stem cell factor receptor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.
We are developing this product in collaboration with Takeda.

Enrollment in the phase 3 first-line NSCLC study (MONET1)
evaluating motesanib in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin for the first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC is nearly complete. Based on current event rates, we anticipate completion of the study in 2011.

In April 2009, Amgen and Millennium announced the phase 2 trial in metastatic breast cancer has been completed and the results support
continued development.

Nplate®(romiplostim)

Nplate®is a peptibody agonist of the TPO receptor.

Nplate®is the first FDA-approved agent that acts directly to increase platelet production for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in splenectomized (spleen removed) and
non-splenectomized adults with chronic ITP, who have had an insufficient response to corticosteroids, immunoglobulins or splenectomy.

In December 2009, we announced results from its first phase 1/2 study evaluating the safety and efficacy of Nplate®in children with chronic ITP. Results of the study showed that treatment with Nplate®appeared to be generally well-tolerated compared to placebo in children (aged 12 months to less than 18 years old) with chronic ITP (treatment related adverse events
= 18% versus 20%, respectively).

In addition, we announced results from three studies on the safety and
efficacy of Nplate®in adult patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (“MDS”). Data from two separate
phase 2 studies showed that patients with low







and intermediate risk MDS currently receiving either decitabine or lenalidomide showed reduced incidence of clinically significant thrombocytopenic events and platelet transfusions with the
addition of Nplate®treatment.

We are also evaluating Nplate®in chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia.

Omecamtiv mecarbil (AMG 423)

Omecamtiv mecarbil is a small molecule activator of cardiac myosin. Omecamtiv
mecarbil is being investigated to improve cardiac contractility in subjects with heart failure. We are developing this product in collaboration with Cytokinetics, Inc. (“Cytokinetics”).

In May 2009, Cytokinetics and Amgen Inc. announced that Amgen had exercised its option to obtain an exclusive license, worldwide (excluding
Japan), to Cytokinetics’ cardiac contractility program, which includes omecamtiv mecarbil.

Sensipar®(cinacalcet)

Sensipar®/Mimpara®is an
orally-administered small molecule that lowers PTH levels in blood by signaling through the calcium-sensing receptor in parathyroid tissue to inhibit PTH secretion. It also lowers blood calcium and phosphorous levels.

The phase 3 EValuation Of Cinacalcet HCl Therapy to Lower CardioVascular Events (“E.V.O.L.V.E.™”) trial, initiated in 2006, is a large (3,800 patient), multi-center, international, randomized, double-blind
study to assess the effects of Sensipar®on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity in patients with CKD
undergoing maintenance dialysis. The E.V.O.L.V.E.™study completed enrollment in January 2008. Based on current
event rates, we anticipate completion of the study in dialysis patients in 2011.

Vectibix®(panitumumab)

Vectibix®is a fully human monoclonal antibody antagonist of the
EGFr pathway. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

®

®

KRAS

KRAS

KRAS

®

KRAS

®

KRAS

®

®

KRAS

®

KRAS

®

KRAS

Also in September 2009, we announced detailed results from the phase 3 ‘203 trial evaluating Vectibix®administered in combination with FOLFOX (an oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy) as the first-line treatment of







®

KRAS

®

KRAS

KRAS

®

KRAS

®

KRAS

®

KRAS

KRAS

KRAS

In November 2009, we announced that the phase 3 ‘203 trial evaluating Vectibix®administered in combination with FOLFOX (an oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy) as a first-line treatment of mCRC failed
to meet a secondary endpoint of OS. The prospective analysis of the ‘203 study showed that Vectibix®, when
added to a FOLFOX chemotherapy regimen in patients withKRASwild-type mCRC, resulted in a median OS of 23.9 months compared to 19.7 months for patients treated with FOLFOX alone. The median OS difference of 4.2 months in the Vectibix®arm did not reach statistical significance (HR: 0.83, p=0.072). OS appeared to be reduced in patients withKRASmutant tumors receiving Vectibix®. Although not statistically significant, this result emphasizes
the importance, as described in product labeling, of ensuring that patients receiving Vectibix®do not bear
tumors containingKRASmutations.

In 2007, we initiated a phase 3 study for the first-line
treatment of metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (“SCCHN”) as well as two randomized phase 2 studies in locally advanced SCCHN testing Vectibix®in combination with chemoradiotherapy or with radiotherapy alone. We expect the results from this study to be available in 2010. Vectibix®is also being investigated in combination with other investigational anti-cancer therapies.

Human Resources

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 17,200 staff members, which include approximately 200 part-time staff members. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue attracting and
retaining qualified personnel in sufficient numbers to meet our needs. None of our staff members are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have experienced no work stoppages. We consider our staff relations to be good.

Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we
generally require our staff members, material consultants and scientific advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or the consulting relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently
the same or similar information or obtain access to our information.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company as of January 31, 2010 are as follows:

Mr. Kevin W. Sharer, age 61, has served as a director of the Company since November 1992. Chief Executive Officer and President of
the Company and has also been Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2001. From October 1992 to May 2000, Mr. Sharer served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. From April 1989 to October 1992, Mr. Sharer was
President of the Business Markets Division of MCI







Communications Corporation (“MCI”). From February 1984 to March 1989, Mr. Sharer held numerous executive capacities at General Electric Company (“GE”). Mr. Sharer is
a director of Chevron Corporation and Northrop Grumman Corporation. He is a trustee of the California Institute of Technology, or Caltech.

Mr. David W. Beier, age 61, became Senior Vice President, Global Government and Corporate Affairs in March 2008. He joined the Company in 2003 as Senior Vice President, Global Government Affairs.
Previously, Mr. Beier was a partner with the law firm of Hogan and Hartson in Washington, D.C. From 1998 to early 2001, Mr. Beier served as Chief Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President of the United States. He also held positions as
Vice President of Government Affairs and Public Policy for Genentech and staff counsel in the U.S. House of Representatives. Mr. Beier is a director of ARYx Therapeutics, Inc.

Dr. Fabrizio Bonanni, age 63, became Executive Vice President, Operations in August 2007. He has served as Senior Vice President,
Manufacturing of the Company since 2004. Dr. Bonanni joined the Company in 1999 as Senior Vice President, Quality and Compliance and in June 2001 he also became the Corporate Compliance Officer. Previously, Dr. Bonanni held various
management positions at Baxter International, Inc. from 1974 to 1999, including positions as Corporate Vice President, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs and Corporate Vice President, Quality System.

Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 47, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in April 2007. He joined the Company in
2006 as Vice President, Operations Strategy. Previously, Mr. Bradway had an 18 year career at Morgan Stanley in New York and London where he was a managing director in investment banking. Mr. Bradway led Morgan Stanley’s healthcare
practice in Europe for several years and also ran Morgan Stanley’s European banking department.

Mr. Thomas J.
Flanagan, age 60, became Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in October 2006. From June 2004 to October 2006, Mr. Flanagan served as Vice President, Information Systems. From December 1995 to May 2004, Mr. Flanagan served
in a variety of executive positions including Chief Information Officer and Vice President, Global Service Delivery at MCI.

Mr. Brian McNamee, age 53, became Senior Vice President, Human Resources in June 2001. From November 1999 to June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999,
Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division of GE. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resource positions at GE.

Mr. George J. Morrow, age 57, became Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing in January 2001 and became Executive
Vice President, Global Commercial Operations in April 2003. From January 1999 to December 2000, Mr. Morrow was President and Chief Executive Officer of Glaxo Wellcome Inc. (“Glaxo”), a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline. From January 1997
to December 1998, Mr. Morrow was Managing Director of Glaxo Wellcome U.K., also a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline. From May 1993 to December 1996, Mr. Morrow was Group Vice President for Commercial Operations of Glaxo. Mr. Morrow
currently serves on the Board of Directors of Align Technology, Inc.

Dr. Roger M. Perlmutter, age 57, became
Executive Vice President, Research and Development in January 2001. From July 1999 to December 2000, Dr. Perlmutter was Executive Vice President, Worldwide Basic Research and Preclinical Development of Merck Research Laboratories. From February
1999 to July 1999, Dr. Perlmutter served as Executive Vice President of Merck Research Laboratories, and from February 1997 to January 1999, as Senior Vice President of Merck Research Laboratories. From May 1989 to January 1997,
Dr. Perlmutter was also Chairman of the Department of Immunology, University of Washington, and from January 1991 to January 1997, Professor in the Departments of Immunology, Biochemistry and Medicine, University of Washington. From July 1984
to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter served as Investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at the University of Washington. Dr. Perlmutter currently serves on the Board of Directors of StemCells, Inc.

Ms. Anna S. Richo, age 49, became Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer in June 2008. From December 2003 to June 2008,
Ms. Richo served as Vice President, Law. Prior to Amgen, she spent 12







years at Baxter Healthcare Corporation in roles of increasing responsibility in law, including Vice President, Law, for Baxter’s BioScience Division. Also, for more than five years,
Ms. Richo served on the Board of Directors of Cytyc Corporation and was a member of the Audit and Finance Committees.

Mr. David J. Scott, age 57, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2004. From May 1999 to February 2004, Mr. Scott served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Medtronic, Inc. and also
as Secretary from January 2000. From December 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Scott served as General Counsel of London-based United Distillers & Vintners. Mr. Scott also served in executive roles at Grand Metropolitan plc and RJR
Nabisco, Inc., and was an attorney in private practice.

Geographic Area Financial Information

For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Note 21, “Segment information — Geographic
information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Investor Information

Financial and other information about us is available on our website (http://www.amgen.com) (This website address is not intended to function
as a hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not intended to be a part of this filing). We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or submitting such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.
In addition, we have previously filed registration statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the
SEC’s internet address at http://www.sec.gov. Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



