Item 1.BUSINESS



Overview



Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as
    “Amgen,” “the Company,” “we,”
    “our” or “us”) is the world’s largest
    independent biotechnology medicines company. We discover,
    develop, manufacture and market medicines for grievous
    illnesses. We focus solely on human therapeutics and concentrate
    on innovating novel medicines based on advances in cellular and
    molecular biology. Our mission is to serve patients.



We were incorporated in 1980 and organized as a Delaware
    corporation in 1987. Our public website is www.amgen.com. On our
    website, investors can find press releases, financial filings
    and other information about the Company. The
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
    website, www.sec.gov, also offers access to reports and
    documents we have electronically filed with or furnished to the
    SEC. These website addresses are not intended to function as
    hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in
    the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this
    filing.



As of December 31, 2010, we had 17,400 staff members
    worldwide. Approximately 6,700 of our staff members work in our
    research and development (“R&D”) function,
    approximately 4,600 work in manufacturing, approximately 4,200
    work in our commercial operations and the rest are in general
    and administrative functions.



®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

tm



We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United
    States, Europe and Canada. We have also entered into agreements
    with third parties to assist in the commercialization and
    marketing of certain of our products in specified geographic
    areas. (See Business Relationships.) Together with our partners,
    we market our products to healthcare providers, including
    physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and
    pharmacies. Most patients receiving our principal products for
    approved indications are covered by either government or private
    payer healthcare programs, which influence demand. The
    reimbursement environment continues to evolve with greater
    emphasis on both cost containment and demonstration of the
    economic value of products.



In addition to our marketed products, we have various product
    candidates inmid-to-latestage development in a variety of therapeutic areas, including
    oncology, hematology, inflammation, bone, nephrology,
    cardiovascular and general medicine, which includes neurology.
    Our R&D organization has expertise in multiple treatment
    modalities, including large molecules (such as proteins,
    antibodies and peptibodies) and small molecules.



Our manufacturing operations consist of bulk manufacturing,
    formulation, fill and finish and distribution activities for all
    of our principal products as well as most of our product
    candidates. We operate commercialand/orclinical manufacturing facilities in the United States, Puerto
    Rico and the Netherlands. (See Item 2. Properties.)





Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and
    risky; and failure rates are high. Product development cycles
    are very long — approximately 10 to 15 years from
    discovery to market. A new medicine must undergo many years of
    preclinical and clinical testing to establish its safety and
    efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels and with
    an acceptable benefit-risk profile. Biological products, which
    are produced in living systems, are inherently complex due to
    naturally occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized
    knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are
    required to transform laboratory-scale processes into
    reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. Upon approval,
    marketed products in our industry generally face substantial
    competition.



Our industry is also highly regulated, and various U.S. and
    foreign regulatory bodies have substantial authority over how we
    conduct our business. Government authorities in the United
    States and other countries regulate the manufacturing and
    marketing of our products as well as our ongoing R&D
    activities. In recent years, regulators have placed a greater
    scrutiny on drug safety. This has led to, and may in the future
    lead to: fewer products being approved by the U.S. Food and
    Drug Administration (“FDA”) or other regulatory
    bodies; delays in receiving approvals; additional safety-related
    requirements; restrictions on the use of products, including
    expanded safety labeling, or required risk management activities.



Significant
    Developments



Following is a summary of significant developments that occurred
    in 2010 and early 2011 affecting our business. A more detailed
    discussion of each development follows in the appropriate
    section.



Denosumab



•The FDA approved
    Prolia®for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at a
    high risk of fracture.•The European Commission (“EC”) granted marketing
    authorization for
    Prolia®for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at
    increased risk of fractures and for the treatment of bone loss
    associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer at
    increased risk of fractures.•The FDA approved
    XGEVAtmfor the prevention of skeletal related events (“SREs”)
    in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors.
    XGEVAtmis not indicated for the prevention of SREs in patients with
    multiple myeloma.•We submitted a marketing authorization application to the
    European Medicines Agency (“EMA”) for denosumab for
    the reduction of SREs in cancer patients.•We announced that a phase 3 trial evaluating
    XGEVAtmversus placebo in men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer
    met its primary endpoint by significantly improving bone
    metastasis-free survival. This study will form the basis of
    planned marketing applications, which we expect to submit to
    regulatory authorities beginning in the first half of 2011, for
    the prevention of bone metastases in prostate cancer.



Healthcare
    Reform



•A new healthcare reform law was enacted in the United States
    that, among other provisions, imposes additional costs on the
    biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries and authorizes the
    FDA to approve biosimilars.



ESAs



•The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
    (“CMS”) released its Final Rule on Bundling in
    Dialysis, effective January 1, 2011, which provides a
    single payment for all dialysis services, including drugs that
    were previously reimbursed separately (except for oral drugs
    without intravenous equivalents for which the bundling rules
    have been postponed).







•CMS engaged in a number of activities to examine the use of ESAs
    in certain patients with kidney disease, including holding a
    March 2010 meeting of the Medicare Evidence
    Development & Coverage Advisory Committee
    (“MEDCAC”), opening a National Coverage Analysis
    (“NCA”) in June 2010 to examine the use of ESAs to
    manage anemia in patients with chronic kidney disease
    (“CKD”) and dialysis-related anemia as well as holding
    another MEDCAC meeting in January 2011 to review the impact of
    ESA use on renal transplant graft survival.



•We announced that the FDA approved a risk evaluation and
    mitigation strategy (“REMS”) for ESAs that requires,
    among other elements, that healthcare providers and institutions
    who prescribe ESAs to patients with cancer receive additional
    training and document their risk discussions with their cancer
    patients prior to initiating a new course of ESA therapy.
    Healthcare providers and institutions who fail to comply with
    the REMS program requirements, including enrolling in the ESA
    REMS program and meeting ongoing compliance obligations, will
    have their access to ESAs suspended. Beginning February 16,
    2011, we must ensure that our distributors do not ship ESAs to
    any healthcare provider or institution until such provider or
    institution has enrolled in the ESA APPRISE (Assisting Providers
    and cancer Patients with Risk Information for the Safe use of
    ESAs) Oncology Program.



•We are working with the FDA to determine the appropriate use of
    ESAs in CKD patients and to determine any future ESA labeling
    changes required in connection with our Trial to Reduce
    Cardiovascular Events with
    Aranesp®Therapy (“TREAT”) study or the October 2010
    Cardiovascular and Renal Drug Advisory Committee
    (“CRDAC”) meeting.



Vectibix®



•We submitted our application to the EMA for marketing
    authorization for the use of
    Vectibix®in first- and second-line treatment of metastatic colorectal
    cancer (“mCRC”) in patients whose tumors contain
    wild-typeKRASgenes.•We filed supplemental Biologics License Application
    (“BLA”) submissions with the FDA for first- and
    second-line mCRC.•We announced that a phase 3 trial evaluating
    Vectibix®as a first-line treatment in patients with recurrentand/ormetastatic squamous cell head and neck cancer failed to meet its
    primary endpoint.



Other
    Developments



•We initiated a phase 3 study in recurrent ovarian cancer for AMG
    386.•We announced plans to begin a phase 3 study in first-line
    metastatic pancreatic cancer for ganitumab (AMG 479).•We announced that we anticipate data for a phase 3 motesanib
    study for advanced non small cell lung cancer
    (“NSCLC”) in the first half of 2011.•We recently announced an agreement to acquire BioVex Group, Inc.
    (“BioVex”). BioVex is a privately held biotechnology
    company developing treatments for cancer and the prevention of
    infectious disease, including
    OncoVEXGM-CSF,

    a novel oncology vaccine in phase 3 trials for the treatment of
    melanoma and head and neck cancer. The acquisition, which is
    subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to close
    during the three months ended March 31, 2011.



Marketed
    Products



We market our principal products,
    Aranesp®,

    EPOGEN®,

    Neulasta®,

    NEUPOGEN®and ENBREL in supportive cancer care, nephrology and
    inflammation. Certain of our marketed products face, and our
    product candidates, if approved, are also expected to face,
    substantial competition, including from products marketed by
    large pharmaceutical corporations, which may have greater
    clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing,
    financial and human resources than we do. Our products’
    competitive position among other biological and





pharmaceutical products may be based on, among other things,
    safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, patient
    convenience/delivery devices, price, reimbursement and patent
    position and expirations.



Over the next several years, the existing patents on our
    principal products will begin to expire, and we expect to face
    increasing competition thereafter, including from biosimilar
    products. A “biosimilar” product is a follow-on
    version of another biological product for which marketing
    approval is sought or has been obtained based on a demonstration
    that it is “highly similar” to the original reference
    product. This demonstration will typically consist of
    comparative analytical, preclinical and clinical data from the
    biosimilar product to show that it has similar safety and
    efficacy as the reference product. The 2010 U.S. healthcare
    reform legislation authorized the FDA to approve biosimilar
    products under a new, abbreviated pathway. Consequently, we
    expect to face greater competition, including from manufacturers
    with biosimilar products approved in Europe that may seek to
    quickly obtain U.S. approval, subject to our ability to
    enforce our patents. In the European Union (“EU”), we
    are already facing increasing competition from biosimilars given
    an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars in the EU.



Further, the introduction of new products or the development of
    new processes or technologies by competitors or new information
    about existing products may result in increased competition for
    our marketed products, even for those protected by patents, or
    in a reduction of price that we receive from selling our
    products. In addition, the development of new treatment options
    or standards of care may reduce the use of our products,
    particularly in supportive cancer care, or may limit the utility
    and application of ongoing clinical trials for our product
    candidates.



and/or



ESAs



Aranesp®and
    EPOGEN®are our registered trademarks for darbepoetin alfa and Epoetin
    alfa, respectively, both of which are ESAs, proteins that
    stimulate red blood cell production. Red blood cells transport
    oxygen to all cells of the body. Without adequate amounts of
    erythropoietin, the red blood cell count is reduced. A deficient
    red blood cell count can result in anemia, a condition in which
    insufficient oxygen is delivered to the body’s organs and
    tissues. Anemia can be associated with chronic renal failure
    (“CRF”) in patients either on or not on dialysis.
    Individuals with CRF suffer from anemia because they do not
    produce sufficient amounts of erythropoietin, which is normally
    produced in healthy kidneys. Anemia can also result from
    chemotherapy treatments for patients with non-myeloid
    malignancies.



ESA products, including ours, have faced and continue to face
    challenges. For example, based on adverse safety results
    observed beginning in late 2006 in various ESA studies,
    performed by us and by others, that explored





the use of ESAs in settings different from those outlined in the
    FDA approved label, the product labeling of our ESA products in
    the United States and the EU has been updated several times to
    reflect those safety concerns. In addition, due in part to
    certain of these developments, reimbursement of our ESA products
    in the United States was also revised resulting in changes in
    the way ESAs are used in clinical practice, including by
    decreasing the number of treated patients, average dose and
    duration of ESA therapy. Certain of these developments have had
    a material adverse impact on sales of our ESA products, in
    particular
    Aranesp®sales in the U.S. supportive cancer care setting,
    reflecting an overall decline in the segment.



Further, we believe that the following recent and pending
    developments could also have a material adverse impact on future
    sales of
    Aranesp®and/orEPOGEN®:





•On January 1, 2011, the Final Rule on Bundling in Dialysis
    became effective which provides a single payment for all
    dialysis services, including drugs, supplies, and non-routine
    laboratory tests that were previously reimbursed separately.
    Under the Final Rule, dialysis providers were given the choice
    of opting into the new bundled payment system in its entirety on
    January 1, 2011, or phasing in over time. Substantially all
    dialysis providers in the United States have opted into the
    bundled payment system in its entirety. We expect the bundled
    payment system to decrease dose utilization of
    EPOGEN®and that this decrease will have a material adverse impact on
    our
    EPOGEN®sales.



•On March 24, 2010, CMS held a MEDCAC meeting to examine the
    currently available evidence on the use of ESAs to manage anemia
    in patients who have CKD. Although there was no clear outcome
    from the MEDCAC meeting, on June 16, 2010, CMS opened an
    NCA to examine the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients with
    CKD and dialysis-related anemia, which is generally CMS’s
    first step toward developing a National Coverage Determination
    (“NCD”). Generally, an NCD is a national policy
    statement granting, limiting or excluding Medicare coverage or
    reimbursement for a specific medical item or service. Medicare
    currently does not have an NCD for the use of ESAs for anemia in
    patients who have CKD but has historically reimbursed for the
    use of ESAs in this setting. CMS has stated that the NCA process
    for ESAs will conclude on or before June 16, 2011, but CMS
    could propose an NCD at any time prior to that deadline. In
    addition, on January 19, 2011, CMS held another MEDCAC
    meeting, this time to review the available evidence on the
    impact of ESA use on renal transplant graft survival.





•

®

®

®



•On October 18, 2010, the FDA held a CRDAC meeting to review
    results from the TREAT study conducted in CRF patients not on
    dialysis with type-2 diabetes and moderate anemia, and how those
    results inform the appropriate use of ESAs in patients with CKD.
    Prior to the CRDAC meeting, we submitted for the FDA’s
    review proposed labeling changes regarding the use of ESAs in
    CRF patients not on dialysis that would limit treatment to
    patients who are most likely to benefit, specifically those with
    significant anemia (hemoglobin (“Hb”) levels <10
    grams per deciliter (“g/dL”)), and who are at high
    risk for transfusion and for whom





transfusion avoidance is considered clinically important,
    including those in whom it is important to preserve kidney
    transplant eligibility. In addition to narrowing the patient
    population, we are proposing a more conservative dosing
    algorithm in those patients. We are working with the FDA to
    determine the appropriate use of ESAs in CKD patients and to
    determine any future ESA labeling changes required in connection
    with TREAT or the CRDAC meeting.



•We are working with the FDA to make ESA product package insert
    changes associated with the Physician’s Labeling Rule
    (“PLR”) conversion process. During the process of
    converting from the existing format to the new PLR format, the
    FDA and Amgen are evaluating the package insert information to
    ensure that it accurately reflects current knowledge and may
    revise, add to or remove information appearing in the old format
    that could substantively impact the content of the product
    package insert.



In addition to the above, following the FDA’s Oncologic
    Drugs Advisory Committee (“ODAC”) meeting in May 2004,
    we proposed a pharmacovigilance program for
    Aranesp®comprised of five studies to explore the use of ESAs in settings
    different from those outlined in the FDA approved label. The
    studies were subsequently designated by the FDA as PMCs. Of the
    five studies, one was sponsored by Amgen while the other four
    were investigator-sponsored. Results of certain of those studies
    contributed to safety-related product labeling changes for our
    ESA products and changes in reimbursement, as noted above. Of
    the five studies, three are complete with final results of the
    remaining studies expected in 2011. In addition, Johnson and
    Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development
    (“J&JPRD”), a subsidiary of J&J,and/orits
    investigators have conducted numerous studies proposed at the
    2004 ODAC meeting. All of these studies are closed to enrollment
    and summary results were submitted to the FDA.



Based on our discussions with the FDA in response to the May
    2007 ODAC meeting, we and J&JPRD have carefully considered
    potential new study designs to determine the effects of ESAs on
    survival and tumor outcomes in anemic patients with metastatic
    cancer receiving concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy.
    Based on those discussions, we have initiated a randomized,
    double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 non-inferiority study
    evaluating overall survival when comparing advanced NSCLC
    patients on
    Aranesp®to patients receiving placebo (“Study’782”) as
    part of our
    Aranesp®pharmacovigilance program. In addition, J&JPRD’s
    EPO-ANE-3010 study in breast cancer is also ongoing. Both
    studies are designated by the FDA as PMR clinical trials.



Adverse events or results of any of these studies could further
    affect product safety labeling, healthcare provider prescribing
    behavior, regulatory or private healthcare organization medical
    guidelinesand/orreimbursement practices related to
    Aranesp®.



Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)



We were granted an exclusive license byKirin-Amgen,Inc. (“KA”), a joint venture between Kirin Holdings
    Company, Limited (“Kirin”) and Amgen (see Business
    Relationships — Kirin Holdings Company, Limited), to
    manufacture and market
    Aranesp®in the United States, all European countries, Canada, Australia,
    New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries
    and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle
    East.



We market
    Aranesp®primarily in the United States and Europe.
    Aranesp®was launched in 2001 in the United States and Europe for
    the treatment of anemia associated with CRF (both in patients on
    dialysis and patients not on dialysis) and is also indicated for
    the treatment of anemia due to concomitant chemotherapy in
    patients with non-myeloid malignancies.



Worldwide
    Aranesp®sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $2.5 billion, $2.7 billion and
    $3.14 billion, respectively. For the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    U.S. Aranesp®sales were $1.1 billion, $1.3 billion and
    $1.65 billion, respectively, and international
    Aranesp®sales were $1.4 billion, $1.4 billion and
    $1.49 billion, respectively.





Our outstanding material patents for darbepoetin alfa are
    described in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins5/15/2024Europe(1)Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins8/16/2014







(1)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to
    supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and
    the length of any such extension will vary by country.



Our principal European patent relating to Epoetin alfa expired
    in December 2004. Although we do not market
    EPOGEN®in Europe, upon expiration of this patent, some companies
    received approval to market products, including biosimilars,
    that compete with
    Aranesp®in Europe, as further discussed below.



Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in addressing anemia associated with chemotherapyand/orrenal
    failure negatively impact
    Aranesp®sales. In the United States,
    Aranesp®competes with
    EPOGEN®,

    primarily in the U.S. hospital dialysis clinic setting. The
    following table reflects companies and their currently marketed
    products that compete with
    Aranesp®in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care
    and nephrology segments, unless otherwise indicated. The table
    and the following discussion of competitor marketed products and
    products in development may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.PROCRIT®(1)Centocor(2)EuropeEPREX®/ERYPO®Janssen-Cilag(2)EuropeNeoRecormon®F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (“Roche”)EuropeRetacrittm(3)/Silapo®(3)Hospira Inc.. (“Hospira”)/Stada Arzneimittel AGEuropeBinocrit®(3)/Epoetin

    alfa
    Hexal®(3)/Abseamed®(3)Sandoz GmbH (“Sandoz”)/Hexal Biotech Forschungs GmbH
    (“Hexal”)/Medice Arzneimittel Pütter GmbH &
    Company KGEuropeMIRCERA®(4)RocheEuropeEporatio®/Biopoin®ratiopharm GmbH
    (“ratiopharm”)(5)/CT

    Arztneimittel GmbH (“CT Arztneimittel”)







(1)Aranesp®competes with
    PROCRIT®in the supportive cancer care and pre-dialysis settings.(2)A subsidiary of J&J.(3)Biosimilar product.(4)Competes with
    Aranesp®in the nephrology segment only. Pursuant to a December 2009
    settlement agreement between Amgen and Roche, Roche is allowed
    to begin selling
    MIRCERA®in the United States in mid-2014 under terms of a limited
    license agreement.
    MIRCERA®has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of anemia
    associated with CRF.(5)A subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (“Teva
    Pharmaceutical”).



In addition to competition from these marketed products, the
    following products in development could compete with
    Aranesp®in the future:



•Affymax Inc. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited
    (“Takeda”) are co-developing peginesatide, an ESA for
    the treatment of anemia in CRF patients on dialysis and they
    have announced plans to file for regulatory approval in the
    United States in the second quarter of 2011.•Reliance Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd. (“Reliance Life
    Sciences”) has an epoetin biosimiliar (Epostim) that they
    filed for regulatory approval for in Europe.





EPOGEN®(Epoetin alfa)



We were granted an exclusive license to manufacture and market
    EPOGEN®in the United States under a licensing agreement with KA. We
    have retained exclusive rights to market
    EPOGEN®in the United States for dialysis patients. We granted Ortho
    Pharmaceutical Corporation, a subsidiary of J&J (which has
    assigned its rights under the Product License Agreement to
    Centocor), a license to commercialize recombinant human
    erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in
    all indications other than dialysis. (See Business
    Relationships — Johnson & Johnson.)



We launched
    EPOGEN®in the United States in 1989 for the treatment of anemia
    associated with CRF in patients who are on dialysis. We market
    EPOGEN®in the United States for the treatment of anemic adult and
    pediatric patients with CRF who are on dialysis.
    EPOGEN®is indicated for elevating or maintaining the red blood cell
    level (as determined by hematocrit or Hb measurements) and
    decreasing the need for blood transfusions in these patients.



EPOGEN®sales in the United States for the years ended December 31,
    2010, 2009 and 2008 were $2.5 billion, $2.6 billion
    and $2.5 billion, respectively.



Our outstanding material patents for Epoetin alfa are described
    in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Process of making erythropoietin8/15/2012U.S.Product claims to erythropoietin8/20/2013U.S.Pharmaceutical compositions of erythropoietin8/20/2013U.S.Cells that make certain levels of erythropoietin5/26/2015





Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in addressing anemia associated with renal failure
    negatively impact
    EPOGEN®sales. In the United States, as noted above,
    EPOGEN®and
    Aranesp®compete with each other, primarily in the U.S. hospital
    dialysis clinic setting. In addition,
    EPOGEN®could face additional competition from those products in
    development noted in the
    Aranesp®section above that may be used in dialysis in the United States.



Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)/NEUPOGEN®(Filgrastim)



We were granted an exclusive license to manufacture and market
    Neulasta®and
    NEUPOGEN®in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia and New
    Zealand under a licensing agreement with KA. (See Business
    Relationships — Kirin Holdings Company, Limited.)



®

®

®

®

®

®

®



We market
    Neulasta®and
    NEUPOGEN®primarily in the United States and Europe. Filgrastim is also
    marketed under the brand name
    GRANULOKINE®in Italy.
    Neulasta®was launched in the United States and





Europe in 2002 and is indicated to decrease the incidence of
    infection associated with chemotherapy-induced febrile
    neutropenia in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies.
    Administration of
    Neulasta®in all cycles of chemotherapy is approved for patients receiving
    myelosuppressive chemotherapy associated with a clinically
    significant risk of febrile neutropenia.
    NEUPOGEN®was launched in the United States and Europe in 1991.
    NEUPOGEN®is indicated for reducing the incidence of infection as
    manifested by febrile neutropenia for patients with non-myeloid
    malignancies undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy; reducing
    the duration of neutropenia and neutropenia-related consequences
    for patients with non-myeloid malignancies undergoing
    myeloablative chemotherapy followed by bone marrow
    transplantation; reducing the incidence and duration of
    neutropenia-related consequences in symptomatic patients with
    congenital neutropenia, cyclic neutropenia or idiopathic
    neutropenia (collectively, severe chronic neutropenia);
    mobilizing peripheral blood progenitor cells (“PBPC”)
    in cancer patients who have undergone myeloablative chemotherapy
    for stem cell transplantation; and reducing the recovery time of
    neutrophils and the duration of fever following induction or
    consolidation chemotherapy treatment in adult patients with
    acute myeloid leukemia (“AML”).



Worldwide
    Neulasta®/NEUPOGEN®sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $4.8 billion, $4.6 billion and $4.7 billion,
    respectively.
    U.S. Neulasta®/NEUPOGEN®sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $3.6 billion, $3.4 billion and $3.4 billion,
    respectively. International
    Neulasta®/NEUPOGEN®sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $1.2 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion,
    respectively.



Our outstanding material patents for pegfilgrastim are described
    in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Pegylated G-CSF10/20/2015Europe(1)Pegylated G-CSF2/8/2015







(1)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to
    supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and
    the length of any such extension will vary by country.



Our outstanding material patents for Filgrastim are described in
    the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.G-CSF polypeptides12/3/2013U.S.Methods of treatment using G-CSF polypeptides12/10/2013





Our principal European patent relating to G-CSF expired in
    August 2006. Upon expiration of that patent, some companies
    received approval to market products, including biosimilars,
    that compete with
    NEUPOGEN®and
    Neulasta®in Europe, as further discussed below.



Neulasta®and/orNEUPOGEN®also face competition in some circumstances from companies
    marketing or developing treatments for neutropenia associated
    with chemotherapy, for bone marrow and PBPC transplant patients,
    severe chronic neutropenia and AML. Further,
    NEUPOGEN®competes with
    Neulasta®in the United States and Europe, and
    NEUPOGEN®sales have been adversely impacted by conversion to
    Neulasta®.

    However, we believe the conversion in the United States is
    substantially complete and that a significant amount of the
    conversion in Europe has already occurred.





The following table reflects companies and their currently
    marketed products that compete with
    Neulasta®and/orNEUPOGEN®in the United States and Europe in the supportive cancer care
    setting. The table and the following discussion of competitor
    marketed products and products in development may not be
    exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Leukine®Bayer HealthCare PharmaceuticalsEuropeGranocyte®Chugai Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd./Sanofi-AventisEuropeRatiograstim®(1)/FilgrastimRatiopharm®(1)/Biograstim®(1)ratiopharm(2)/CT

    ArztneimittelEuropeTevagrastim®(1)Teva PharmaceuticalEuropeZarzio®(1)/Filgrastim

    Hexal®(1)Sandoz/HexalEuropeNivestim®(1)Hospira







(1)Biosimilar product.(2)A subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical.



In February 2010, Teva Pharmaceutical announced that the FDA had
    accepted for review its BLA seeking U.S. approval to market
    XM02 to boost white blood cells under the brand name
    Neutrovaltm.

    On September 30, 2010, the FDA issued a Complete Response
    Letter requesting additional information from Teva
    Pharmaceutical to complete the review of its applications for
    approval of
    Neutrovaltm.

    Neutrovaltmis currently sold under the brand name
    Tevagrastim®in several European countries. If approved in the United States,
    this drug would compete with
    NEUPOGEN®and
    Neulasta®.

    On November 30, 2009, Teva Pharmaceutical filed a
    declaratory judgment action against us alleging that certain of
    our
    NEUPOGEN®patents are invalid and not infringed by
    Neutrovaltm,

    and on January 15, 2010, we filed an answer and
    counterclaims seeking a declaratory judgment that our patents
    are valid and infringed. Pretrial proceedings are ongoing and no
    trial date has yet been set. (See Note 19, Contingencies
    and commitments to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)



Other companies with short-acting filgrastims in phase 3
    clinical development for Europe are:



•Merck & Company, Inc. (“Merck”) (MK-4214).•Intas/Apotex Inc. (Neukine).•Reliance Life Sciences (Religrast).•Biocon Ltd./Celgene Corporation (“Celgene”) (Nufil).



In addition, Teva Pharmaceutical has two long-acting filgrastims
    in phase 3 clinical development for Europe (XM-22 and Neugranin).



Enbrel®(etanercept)



ENBREL is our registered trademark for etanercept, our TNF
    receptor fusion protein that inhibits the binding of TNF to its
    receptors, which can result in a significant reduction in
    inflammatory activity. TNF is one of the chemical messengers
    that help regulate the inflammatory process. When the body
    produces too much TNF, it overwhelms the immune system’s
    ability to control inflammation of the joints or of
    psoriasis-affected skin areas. ENBREL is similar to a protein
    that the body produces naturally, and like this protein, it
    binds certain TNF molecules before they can trigger inflammation.



We acquired the rights to ENBREL in July 2002 with our
    acquisition of Immunex Corporation (“Immunex”). ENBREL
    was launched in November 1998 for the treatment of rheumatoid
    arthritis (“RA”). In addition, ENBREL is now indicated
    for the treatment of adult patients with the following
    conditions: moderately to severely active RA; chronic moderate
    to severe plaque psoriasis patients who are candidates for
    systemic therapy or phototherapy; active psoriatic arthritis;
    and active ankylosing spondylitis. ENBREL is also approved for
    the treatment of moderately to severely active polyarticular
    juvenile idopathic arthritis in patients ages 2 and older.





We market ENBREL under a collaboration agreement with Pfizer
    Inc. (“Pfizer”) in the United States and Canada, which
    expires in the fourth quarter of 2013. (See Business
    Relationships — Pfizer Inc.) The rights to market
    and sell ENBREL outside the United States and Canada are
    reserved to Pfizer.



ENBREL sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009
    and 2008 were $3.5 billion, $3.5 billion and
    $3.6 billion, respectively.



Our outstanding material patents for etanercept are described in
    the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.TNFR DNA vectors, cells and processes for making proteins10/23/2012U.S.Aqueous
    Formulation(1)2/27/2023







(1)This formulation patent relates to the currently approved liquid
    formulation of ENBREL, which formulation accounts for the
    majority of ENBREL sales in the United States. ENBREL is also
    sold as a lyophilized formulation that requires reconstituting
    before it can be administered to the patient. Accordingly, a
    potential competitor may be able to develop an alternative
    formulation of etanercept, including the lyophilized
    formulation, and compete in the marketplace prior to the
    expiration of the liquid formulation patent.



Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in treating rheumatologic conditions, which includes
    moderate to severe RA; moderate to severe polyarticular juvenile
    idiopathic arthritis; ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic
    arthritis; and dermatologic conditions, which includes moderate
    to severe plaque psoriasis, could negatively impact ENBREL
    sales. Certain of the treatments for these indications include
    generic methotrexate and other products.



The following table reflects companies and their currently
    marketed products that primarily compete with ENBREL in the
    United States and Canada in the inflammatory disease setting.
    The table and the following discussion of competitor marketed
    products and products in development may not be exhaustive.



CompetitorTerritoryTherapeutic AreaMarketed ProductCompetitorU.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologyREMICADE®Centocor(1)/MerckU.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologyHUMIRA®Abbott Laboratories (“Abbott”)U.S. & CanadaRheumatology & DermatologySimponi®Centocor(1)U.S. & CanadaRheumatologyCimzia®UCB/ Nektar TherapeuticsU.S. & CanadaRheumatologyOrencia®Bristol-Myers Squibb Corporation (“BMS”)U.S. & CanadaRheumatologyRituxan®RocheU.S.RheumatologyActemra®RocheU.S. & CanadaDermatologyStelara®Centocor(1)U.S. & CanadaDermatologyAmevive®Biogen IDEC Inc.







(1)A subsidiary of J&J.



In addition to competition from the above-noted marketed
    products, various competitors are developing products that may
    compete with ENBREL in the future, as discussed below:



•BMS submitted a supplemental BLA in the United States in October
    2010 for subcutaneous
    Orencia®.•Pfizer released phase 3 data for its small molecule oral JAK
    program (tofacitinib) in RA and has initiated phase 3 trials in
    psoriasis.•AstraZeneca PLC and Rigel Pharmaceuticals Inc. initiated phase 3
    trials in RA for their small molecule (fostamatinib).•Celgene initiated phase 3 clinical trials in both psoriasis and
    psoriatic arthritis for its small molecule (apremilast).





In addition, several pharmaceutical companies announced their
    intent to produce biosimilars that may compete with ENBREL.



Other



Our other marketed products are
    Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet),
    Vectibix®(panitumumab),
    Nplate®(romiplostim),
    Prolia®(denosumab) and
    XGEVAtm(denosumab).



Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)



Sensipar®is our registered trademark in the United States and
    Mimpara®is our registered trademark in Europe for cinacalcet, our small
    molecule medicine used in treating CKD patients on dialysis who
    produce too much parathyroid hormone (“PTH”), a
    condition known as secondary hyperparathyroidism. In 2004,
    Sensipar®/Mimpara®was approved in the United States and Europe for the treatment
    of secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD patients on dialysis and
    for the treatment of hypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid
    carcinoma. In 2008,
    Mimpara®was approved in Europe for the reduction of hypercalcemia in
    patients with primary hyperparathyroidism where a
    parathyroidectomy is not clinically appropriate or is
    contraindicated. We market
    Sensipar®primarily in the United States and
    Mimpara®primarily in Europe.



In addition, as previously discussed, CMS released the Final
    Rule on Bundling in Dialysis, effective January 1, 2011,
    resulting in a bundled payment system for dialysis facilities.
    Oral drugs without intravenous equivalents, such as
    Sensipar®and phosphate binders, will continue to be reimbursed separately
    under the Medicare Part D benefit until 2014 when they will
    be reimbursed under the bundled payment system. Inclusion in the
    bundled payment system may reduce utilization of these oral
    drugs and have a material adverse impact on
    Sensipar®sales. (See Reimbursement.)



Worldwide
    Sensipar®/Mimpara®sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $714 million, $651 million and $597 million,
    respectively.



Our outstanding material patents for cinacalcet are described in
    the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Calcium receptor-active molecules including species10/23/2015U.S.(1)Calcium receptor-active molecules12/14/2016U.S.Methods of treatment12/14/2016Europe(2)Calcium receptor-active molecules10/23/2015







(1)An election of U.S. Patent No. 6,011,068 for patent term
    extension has been submitted to the U.S. Patent and Trademark
    Office which will extend this patent until March 8, 2018.(2)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to
    supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and
    the length of any such extension will vary by country.



Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in treating secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients
    with CKD on dialysisand/orhypercalcemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma negatively
    impact
    Sensipar®/Mimpara®sales.





The following table reflects companies and their currently
    marketed products that compete with
    Sensipar®in the United States and with
    Mimpara®in Europe in the nephrology segment for patients with CKD on
    dialysis. The table and discussion below of competitor marketed
    products and products in development may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Hectorol®Genzyme Corporation (“Genzyme”)U.S.Rocaltrol®RocheU.S.Calcijex®AbbottU.S.Calcium
    Acetate®Roxane Laboratories/SandozU.S. & EuropeZemplar®AbbottU.S. & EuropeRenagel®GenzymeU.S. & EuropeRenvela®GenzymeU.S. & EuropePhosLo®/Rephoren®Fresenius Medical CareU.S. & EuropeOsvaRen®Fresenius Medical CareU.S. & EuropeFosrenol®Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Plc





On July 25, 2008, we filed a lawsuit against Teva
    Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceutical (together
    defined as “Teva”) and Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc.
    (“Barr”) for infringement of four
    Sensipar®patents. The lawsuit was based on Abbreviated New Drug
    Applications filed by Teva and Barr that sought approval to
    market generic versions of
    Sensipar®.

    Following trial, on January 7, 2011, the U.S. District
    Court for the District of Delaware granted an injunction
    prohibiting Teva and Barr from commercializing generic versions
    of
    Sensipar®in the United States until expiration of three of those patents.
    (See Note 19, Contingencies and commitments to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.) These generic versions could
    compete with
    Sensipar®in the future.



Vectibix®(panitumumab)



®

®

®

®

®

KRAS

®

®

KRAS

KRAS

KRAS

®

KRAS



In 2009, we announced results from the ’203 and ’181
    pivotal phase 3 trials evaluating
    Vectibix®in combination with chemotherapy (FOLFOX or FOLFIRI) as a first-
    and second-line treatment for mCRC, respectively. Both studies
    demonstrated that
    Vectibix®administered with chemotherapy significantly improved
    progression-free survival in patients with wild-typeKRASmCRC. Additionally, both studies showed numeric improvements
    in median overall survival in the same patient population. The
    numeric improvements in median overall survival failed to
    achieve statistical significance. It was previously agreed with
    the FDA that the ’181 study would serve as the confirmatory
    trial for establishing full approval for the mCRC indication.





On April 16, 2010, our application for marketing
    authorization for the use of
    Vectibix®in first- and second-line treatment of mCRC in patients whose
    tumors contain wild-typeKRASgenes was submitted to the
    EMA. In the United States, we filed supplemental BLA submissions
    for first- and second-line mCRC with the FDA on October 29,
    2010 and November 4, 2010. Both the EMA and FDA filings
    included the data from the ’203 and ’181 clinical
    trials. In addition, the FDA has indicated that in order for
    Vectibix®to be approved for these indications, there must be a
    commercially available, FDA-approvedKRAStest kit. We
    continue to work with our partner QIAGEN N.V. to support their
    submission of a Premarket Application for approval of this test
    kit.



On February 8, 2011, we and four other sponsor companies
    met with the FDA and the ODAC to discuss the status of our
    respective PMCs for product indications that had been granted
    accelerated approval by the FDA prior to 2009, including
    Vectibix®.

    At that meeting, we updated the Committee on the completion and
    submission of the main PMC for
    Vectibix®,

    the confirmatory ’181 study, and participated in an open
    discussion with the ODAC on the accelerated approval process.



Worldwide
    Vectibix®sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $288 million, $233 million and $153 million,
    respectively.



Our outstanding material patents for panitumumab are described
    in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Human monoclonal antibodies to EGFr4/8/2020U.S.Human monoclonal antibodies to EGFr5/5/2017EuropeFully human antibodies that bind EGFr12/3/2017Europe(1)Human monoclonal antibodies to EGFr5/5/2018







(1)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to
    supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and
    the length of any such extension will vary by country.



Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in treating mCRC after disease progression on, or
    following fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan-
    containing chemotherapy regimens negatively impact
    Vectibix®sales. The following table reflects companies and their
    currently marketed products that compete with
    Vectibix®in the United States and Europe. The table may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Erbitux®Eli Lilly and Company (“Eli Lilly”)/BMSEuropeErbitux®Merck KGaA





Nplate®(romiplostim)



In August 2008, the FDA approved
    Nplate®,

    our platelet producer for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in
    splenectomized (spleen removed) and non-splenectomized adults
    with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (“ITP”).
    Nplate®works by raising and sustaining platelet counts. We were granted
    an exclusive license by KA to manufacture and market
    Nplate®in the United States, all European countries, Canada, Australia,
    New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries
    and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle
    East. In February 2009, we announced that the EC had granted
    marketing authorization for
    Nplate®for the treatment of splenectomized adult chronic ITP patients
    who are refractory to other treatments (eg, corticosteroids,
    immunoglobulins). In the EU,
    Nplate®may also be considered as second-line treatment for adult
    non-splenectomized ITP patients where surgery is contraindicated.



We currently have an approved REMS for
    Nplate®,

    which includes a medication guide, a healthcare provider
    communication plan and certain elements to assure safe use
    (including restricted distribution, registry, healthcare
    provider, institution and patient enrollment). As required, we
    have submitted REMS assessment reports to the FDA and are
    working with the FDA to determine any additional modifications
    to the REMS that will be needed.





Worldwide
    Nplate®sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $229 million, $110 million and $17 million,
    respectively.



Our outstanding material patents for romiplostim are described
    in the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpirationU.S.Thrombopoietic compounds1/19/2022Europe(1)Thrombopoietic compounds10/22/2019







(1)In some cases, this European patent may also be entitled to
    supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and
    the length of any such extension will vary by country.



Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly
    successful in treating thrombocytopenia in splenectomized and
    non-splenectomized adults with chronic ITP negatively impact
    Nplate®sales. The following table reflects currently marketed products
    that compete with
    Nplate®in the United States and Europe. The table may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S.Promacta®GlaxoSmithKline plc (“GSK”)EuropeRevolade®GSK





Prolia®/XGEVAtm(denosumab)



In 2010, we launched
    Prolia®and
    XGEVAtm,

    both of which contain the same active ingredient but which are
    approved for different indications, patient populations, doses
    and frequencies of administration. We have a collaboration
    agreement with Glaxo Group Limited (“Glaxo”), a wholly
    owned subsidiary of GSK, for the commercialization of denosumab
    in certain countries. (See Business Relationships —
    Glaxo Group Limited.)



Prolia®



On June 1, 2010, the FDA approved
    Prolia®for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at
    high risk for fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic
    fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture, or patients who
    have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis
    therapy. We estimate that the majority of potential
    U.S. Prolia®patients are covered under Medicare and the remaining patients
    under commercial plans. (See Reimbursement.) Future
    U.S. product sales for
    Prolia®will depend on the willingness of primary care physicians to
    prescribe, the availability of reimbursement for and patient
    acceptance of the product.



On May 25, 2010, the EC granted marketing authorization for
    Prolia®for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at
    increased risk of fractures and for the treatment of bone loss
    associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer at
    increased risk of fractures. The timing of reimbursement
    authority approval of pricing in individual EU countries will
    vary by country, which could follow the EC approval by many
    months. For example, on July 1, 2010,
    Prolia®received reimbursement authority in Germany. On October 27,
    2010, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence
    (“NICE”) in the United Kingdom (“UK”)
    recommended
    Prolia®for National Health Service (“NHS”) reimbursement as a
    treatment option for certain postmenopausal women who are at
    increased risk of primary and secondary osteoporotic fractures
    if other treatments available on the publicly-funded NHS are
    unsuitable.



Worldwide
    Prolia®sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 were
    $33 million.





The following table and discussion reflect other companies and
    their currently marketed products that compete with
    Prolia®.

    The table and the discussion of competitor marketed products and
    product in development may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S. & EuropeFOSAMAX®(1)MerckU.S. & EuropeActonel®/AtelviatmWarner Chilcott PLCU.S. & EuropeBoniva®/Bonviva®RocheU.S. & EuropeEvista®Eli LillyU.S. & EuropeForteo®/ForsteotmEli LillyU.S. & EuropeMiacalcin®Novartis AG (“Novartis”)U.S. & EuropeAclasta®/Reclast®NovartisEuropeConbriza®PfizerEuropeFablyn®Pfizer







(1)Merck’s patent covering the use of
    FOSAMAX®to treat bone loss expired in the United States in February
    2008. Following the patent expiry, generic alendronate, which
    competes with
    FOSAMAX®and
    Prolia®,

    became available.



Over the next several years, we expect certain additional
    marketed products noted above to lose patent protection, at
    which time we expect that generic versions of these products
    would become commercially available and compete with
    Prolia®.



In addition to competition from the above-noted marketed
    products, Merck has a new cathepsin-K inhibitor, odanacatib, in
    phase 3 clinical trials that could compete with
    Prolia®in the future.



XGEVAtm



On November 18, 2010, the FDA approved
    XGEVAtmfor the prevention of SREs in patients with bone metastases from
    solid tumors.
    XGEVAtmis not indicated for the prevention of SREs in patients with
    multiple myeloma.



We also submitted a marketing authorization application to the
    EMA on June 4, 2010 for denosumab for the reduction of SREs
    in cancer patients.



On December 12, 2010, we announced top-line results from a
    phase 3 trial evaluating
    XGEVAtmversus placebo in men with castrate-resistant prostate cancer.
    The trial, known as the ’147 study, demonstrated that
    XGEVAtmsignificantly improved median bone metastasis-free survival by
    4.2 months compared to placebo (primary endpoint) and
    significantly improved time to first occurrence of bone
    metastases (secondary endpoint). Overall survival was similar
    between the
    XGEVAtmand placebo groups (secondary endpoint). This study will form
    the basis of planned marketing applications, which we expect to
    submit to regulatory authorities beginning in the first half of
    2011, for the prevention of bone metastasis in prostate cancer.
    (See Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates.)



U.S.
    XGEVAtmsales for the year ended December 31, 2010 were
    $8 million.





The following table reflects currently marketed products that
    compete with
    XGEVAtm.

    The table may not be exhaustive.



TerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorU.S. & EuropeZometa®(1)NovartisU.S. & EuropeAredia®(2)Novartis







(1)Novartis has indicated that patent protection on the active
    ingredient for
    Zometa®will expire in 2013 in the United States and 2012 in other major
    markets. At such time, we expect that generic forms of
    zoledronic acid may become commercially available and compete
    with
    Zometa®and
    XGEVAtm.(2)Novartis’s patent covering the use of
    Aredia®to treat tumor-induced hypercalcemia, osteolysis from multiple
    myeloma and bone metastases from breast cancer expired in the
    United States in 2001. Following the patent expiry, generic
    pamidronate, which competes with
    Aredia®and
    XGEVAtm,

    became available from other companies.



Our outstanding material patents for denosumab are described in
    the following table.



TerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpiration(1)U.S.RANKL antibodies; methods of interfering with RANK signaling12/22/2017U.S.Methods of treatment11/11/2018U.S.RANKL antibodies including sequences11/28/2023EuropeRANKL antibodies12/22/2017EuropeMedical use of RANKL antibodies4/15/2018EuropeRANKL antibodies including epitope binding2/23/2021EuropeRANKL antibodies including sequences6/25/2022







(1)The expiration dates may be subject to change if delays in
    regulatory approval lead to extensions of patent terms in the
    United States and/or supplemental protection in Europe.



Marketing
    and Distribution



We maintain sales and marketing forces primarily in the United
    States, Europe and Canada to support our currently marketed
    products. We have also entered into agreements with third
    parties to assist in the commercialization and marketing of
    certain of our products in specified geographic areas. (See
    Business Relationships.) Together with our partners, we market
    our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or
    their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. We
    also market certain products directly to consumers throughdirect-to-consumerprint and television advertising, and also through the Internet.
    In addition, for certain of our products, we promote programs to
    increase public awareness of the health risks associated with
    the diseases these products treat, as well as providing support
    to various patient education and support programs in the related
    therapeutic areas. (See Government Regulation — FDA
    Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion for a discussion
    of the government regulation over product marketing and
    promotion.)



In the United States, we sell primarily to wholesale
    distributors of pharmaceutical products. We utilize those
    wholesale distributors as the principal means of distributing
    our products to healthcare providers. In Europe, we sell
    principally to healthcare providersand/orwholesalers depending on the distribution practice in each
    country. We monitor the financial condition of our larger
    customers and limit our credit exposure by setting credit
    limits, requiring letters of credit and obtaining credit
    insurance, as we deem appropriate.



We had product sales to three large wholesaler customers each
    accounting for more than 10% of total revenues for the years
    ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. On a combined
    basis, these distributors accounted for 71% and 88% for 2010 of
    worldwide gross revenues and U.S. gross product sales,
    respectively, as noted in the table





below. Certain information with respect to these distributors
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is as
    follows (dollar amounts in millions):



201020092008AmerisourceBergen Corporation:Gross product sales$7,678$7,179$7,099% of total gross revenues38%37%37%% of U.S. gross product sales47%46%46%McKesson Corporation:Gross product sales$3,913$3,694$3,594% of total gross revenues19%19%19%% of U.S. gross product sales24%24%23%Cardinal Health, Inc.:Gross product sales$2,813$2,841$2,823% of total gross revenues14%15%15%% of U.S. gross product sales17%18%18%





Reimbursement



Sales of all of our principal products are dependent in large
    part on the availability and extent of coverage and
    reimbursement from third-party payers, including government and
    private insurance plans. Most patients receiving our products
    are covered by government healthcare programs or private
    insurers. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursementand/orpricing of our products to control costs or to affect levels of
    use of our products, and private insurers may adopt or be
    influenced by government coverage and reimbursement
    methodologies. Worldwide use of our products may be affected by
    cost containment pressures and cost shifting from governments
    and private insurers to healthcare providers or patients in
    response to ongoing initiatives to reduce or reallocate
    healthcare expenditures. An increasing worldwide focus on
    patient access controls and cost containment by public and
    private insurers has resulted, and may continue to result, in
    reduced reimbursement rates for our products. In addition,
    recent healthcare reform efforts enacted in the United States
    have made substantial long-term changes to the reimbursement of
    our products, and those changes have had, and are expected to
    continue to have, a significant impact on our business.



U.S.
    Reimbursement System



Our principal products are sold primarily in the United States
    and healthcare providers, including doctors, hospitals and other
    healthcare professionals and providers, are reimbursed for their
    services by the government through Medicare, Medicaid and other
    government healthcare programs as well as through private
    payers. Government healthcare programs are funded primarily
    through the payment of taxes by individuals and businesses. The
    public and private components of this multi-payer system are
    described below.



Medicare
    and Other Forms of Public Health Insurance



Medicare is a federal program administered by the federal
    government that covers individuals age 65 and over as well
    as those with certain disabilities and end stage renal disease
    (“ESRD”), regardless of their age. The primary
    Medicare programs that affect reimbursement for our products are
    Medicare Part B, which covers physician services and
    outpatient care, and Medicare Part D, which provides a
    voluntary outpatient prescription drug benefit. CMS is the
    federal agency responsible for administering Medicare (as well
    as Medicaid, described below) and, among its responsibilities,
    has authority to issue Medicare NCDs which are national policy
    statements granting, limiting or excluding Medicare coverage for
    specific medical items or services. In addition, CMS has
    authority to issue manual policy issuances and updates as well
    as reimbursement codes for drugs and other items, which
    determine how products and services are reimbursed. Medicare
    Administrative Contractors have authority to issue local
    coverage determinations. CMS sometimes uses advisory committees
    of external experts in order to obtain





independent expert advice on scientific, technical and policy
    matters. For example, the MEDCAC was established to provide
    independent guidance and expert advice to CMS on specific
    clinical topics. The MEDCAC reviews and evaluates medical
    literature, technology assessments, and examines data and
    information on the effectiveness and appropriateness of medical
    items and services that are covered under Medicare, or that may
    be eligible for coverage under Medicare.



Medicare Part B Coverage of Drugs and
    ESRD.

®



Medicare Part D.Medicare Part D provides
    a voluntary prescription drug benefit for Medicare eligible
    beneficiaries. The coverage is available through various private
    plans that provide insurance coverage for prescription drugs for
    a monthly premium. The list of prescription drugs covered by
    Medicare Part D plans varies by plan, but drug lists
    maintained by individual plans must cover certain classes of
    drugs and biologicals; specifically the statute stipulates that
    Medicare Part D plans have at least two drugs in each
    unique therapeutic category or class, subject to certain
    exceptions. Medicare patients who obtain ENBREL and
    Sensipar®under retail coverage, where they are primarily provided, are
    typically covered by Medicare Part D.



Medicaid.Medicaid is a joint federal and state
    program administered by individual states for low-income and
    disabled eligible beneficiaries. CMS also has responsibility for
    federal administration of the Medicaid program. Under federal
    law, states must cover low-income adults and children, pregnant
    women, disabled individuals and seniors, and states have the
    option of expanding eligibility beyond those groups of
    beneficiaries. Medicaid is financed jointly by the states and
    federal government through taxes. Medicaid offers a broad set of
    benefits, including prescription drugs. Medicaid includes the
    Drug Rebate Program which requires manufacturers to provide
    rebates to the states for products covered and reimbursed by
    state Medicaid programs.



See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our sales depend on
    coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.



Private
    Health Insurance



Employer-sponsored insurance.Employer-sponsored
    insurance currently represents the main pathway by which
    Americans receive private health insurance. Many employers
    provide health insurance as part of employees’ benefit
    packages. Insurance plans are administered by private companies,
    both for-profit andnot-for-profit,and some companies are “self-insured” (i.e., they pay
    for all healthcare costs incurred by employees directly through
    a plan administered by a third party). Generally,
    employer-sponsored insurance premiums are paid primarily by
    employers and secondarily by employees.



Individual market.The individual market covers part
    of the population that is self-employed or retired. In addition,
    it covers some people who are unable to obtain insurance through
    their employers. The plans are administered by private insurance
    companies. Individuals payout-of-pocketinsurance premiums for coverage, and the benefits vary widely
    according to plan specifications.





Reimbursement
    of Our Principal Products



Aranesp

®

,

    Neulasta

®

and
    NEUPOGEN

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

tm

®



Since 2005, in the physician office setting under Medicare
    Part B,
    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®and
    NEUPOGEN®have been reimbursed at 106% of their ASP (sometimes referred to
    as “ASP+6%”), and in 2011 will continue to be
    reimbursed at this rate pursuant to the 2011 Medicare Physician
    Fee Schedule Final Rule. In the hospital outpatient
    setting, from 2006 to 2010 Medicare reimbursement rates fell
    incrementally from ASP+6% to ASP+4%, but rose in 2011 to ASP+5%
    pursuant to the 2011 Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment
    Final Rule. CMS has the regulatory authority to further adjust
    formulas in future years. The extent to which commercial payers
    adopt the use of ASP as a payment methodology is often based on
    the contractual relationship between the provider and the
    insurer.



Dialysis Reimbursement.Currently, dialysis
    providers in the United States are reimbursed for
    EPOGEN®primarily by Medicare through the ESRD Program, which is
    established by federal law and implemented by CMS. The ESRD
    Program reimburses Medicare providers for 80% of allowed
    dialysis costs; the remainder is paid by other sources,
    including patients, state Medicaid programs, private insurance,
    and to a lesser extent, state kidney patient programs. Until
    January 1, 2011, Medicare reimbursed for separately
    billable dialysis drugs (including
    EPOGEN®and
    Aranesp®)

    administered in both freestanding and hospital-based dialysis
    centers, at ASP+6%, using the same payment amount methodology
    used in the physician clinic setting under Part B. On
    January 1, 2011, CMS’s bundled payment system went
    into effect for dialysis facilities which provides a single
    payment for all dialysis services including drugs, supplies and
    non-routine laboratory tests that were previously reimbursed
    separately. Key provisions under the new system include:



•Unit of payment — CMS will provide a per treatment
    unit of payment. Consistent with past policy, ESRD facilities
    can be paid for up to three treatments per week, unless medical
    necessity justifies more frequent treatments.•Payment rate — for 2011, the base rate is $229.63 per
    treatment.•Oral drugs without intravenous equivalents — oral-only
    drugs, such as
    Sensipar®and phosphate binders, will remain under the Medicare
    Part D benefit until 2014 when they will be reimbursed
    under the bundled payment system.





Dialysis providers were given the choice of opting into the new
    bundled payment system 100% on January 1, 2011, or phasing
    in over a four-year period. Substantially, all dialysis
    providers in the United States have opted into the bundled
    payment system in its entirety.



To encourage dialysis facilities to continue to provide quality
    dialysis treatment under the new bundled payment system, on
    December 29, 2010, CMS issued the Final Rule to implement
    the ESRD Quality Improvement Program (“QIP”). Under
    the QIP, beginning in 2012, ESRD facilities will be subject to a
    payment penalty of up to 2% of amounts reimbursed for failure to
    meet or exceed CMS’ quality performance standards,
    including performance standards related to anemia management and
    dialysis adequacy. Under the QIP, the penalty will be based on a
    composite score of measures as follows:



•The percent of Medicare patients with Hb levels below 10 g/dL
    constitutes 50% of the weighting.•The percent of Medicare patients with Hb levels above 12 g/dL
    represents 25% of the weighting.•The percent of Medicare patients with an average Urea Reduction
    Ratio of greater than or equal to 65% constitutes 25% of the
    weighting.



Notwithstanding the implementation of the QIP in 2012, we expect
    the bundled payment system to decrease dose utilization of
    EPOGEN®and that this decrease will have a material adverse impact on
    EPOGEN®sales. Further, if CMS issues an NCD for the use of ESAs in
    patients who have kidney disease (see Other ESA Reimbursement
    Developments below), CMS could further adjust the bundled
    payment systemand/orthe
    QIP.



Other ESA Reimbursement Developments.Since April 1,
    2006, Medicare reimbursement for ESAs administered to dialysis
    patients has been subject to a Erythropoietin Monitoring Policy
    (“EMP”), the Medicare payment review mechanism used by
    CMS to monitor
    EPOGEN®and
    Aranesp®utilization and appropriate hematocrit outcomes of dialysis
    patients. The EMP was revised, effective January 1, 2008,
    requiring a 50% reduction in Medicare reimbursement if a
    patient’s Hb is above 13 g/dL for three or more consecutive
    months. In addition, the revised EMP reduces the monthly dosing
    limits to 400,000 international units (“IUs”) of
    EPOGEN®,

    from 500,000 IUs, and to 1,200 micrograms (“mcgs”) of
    Aranesp®,

    from 1,500 mcgs.



On March 14, 2007, CMS announced a review of all Medicare
    policies related to the administration of ESAs in non-renal
    disease applications as part of an NCA, which is generally
    CMS’ first step toward developing an NCD. As a result of
    that review, CMS initiated an NCD for non-renal ESAs. After
    various CMS proposals and a public comment period, CMS issued a
    final NCD on July 30, 2007. The 2007 NCD determined that
    ESA treatment was not reasonable and necessary for certain
    clinical conditions and established Medicare coverage parameters
    for FDA-approved ESA use in oncology. We believe the
    restrictions in the 2007 NCD changed the way ESAs are used in
    clinical practice, for example, by decreasing the number of
    treated patients, the average ESA dose and the duration of ESA
    therapy. We believe this restriction on coverage of ESAs in the
    2007 NCD has had a material adverse effect on the coverage,
    reimbursement and sales of
    Aranesp®,

    and our business and results of operations. In addition, many
    private payers have implemented portions of the 2007 NCD and we
    believe many healthcare providers have reduced ESA utilization
    for all of their patients regardless of insurance coverage.



On March 24, 2010, CMS held a MEDCAC meeting to examine the
    currently available evidence on the use of ESAs to manage anemia
    in patients who have CKD. Although there was no clear outcome
    from the MEDCAC meeting, on June 16, 2010, CMS opened a new
    NCA to examine the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients with
    CKD and dialysis-related anemia, which is generally CMS’
    first step toward developing an NCD. CMS has stated that the NCA
    process for ESAs will conclude on or before June 16, 2011,
    but CMS could propose a new NCD at any time prior to that
    deadline. Additionally, on January 19, 2011, CMS held
    another MEDCAC meeting, this time to review the available
    evidence on the impact of ESA use on renal transplant graft
    survival.



ENBREL Reimbursement.The majority of prescription claims
    for ENBREL are paid through private insurance companies. Under
    Medicare, ENBREL is reimbursed through the Part D program,
    although less than 10% of all ENBREL U.S. prescriptions are
    reimbursed by Medicare.





Prolia®Reimbursement



We estimate that the majority of potential
    U.S. Prolia®patients are covered under Medicare and the remaining under
    commercial plans. Beginning in 2010,
    Prolia®has been reimbursed under Medicare Part B through the buy
    and bill process. (See Reimbursement of Our Principal
    Products —
    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®and
    NEUPOGEN®.)

    The buy and bill reimbursement process for
    Prolia®has required, and is expected to continue to require, time to
    become established, particularly among primary care physicians
    who may have limited experience using this reimbursement
    process. We expect that U.S. Medicare Part D plans
    will begin to cover
    Prolia®in 2011 and that commercial coverage will continue to expand as
    more commercial plans make their decisions about
    Prolia®coverage and reimbursement.



Medicaid
    Reimbursement



.



Related to our participation in the Medicaid drug rebate program
    is a requirement that we extend comparable discounts under the
    Public Health Service (“PHS”) drug pricing program to
    a variety of community health clinics and other entities that
    receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as
    hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of Medicare and
    Medicaid beneficiaries. As more fully described below, the list
    of entities to which we are required to extend these discounts
    also expanded as a result of the new healthcare reform law.







incorrect. Finally, we are required to disclose in our FSS
    contract proposal all commercial pricing that is equal to or
    less than our proposed FSS pricing, and subsequent to award of
    an FSS contract, we are required to monitor certain commercial
    price reductions and extend commensurate price reductions to the
    government, under the terms of the FSS contract Price Reductions
    Clause. Among the remedies available to the government for any
    failure to properly disclose commercial pricingand/orto
    extend FSS contract price reductions is recoupment of any FSS
    overcharges that may result from such omissions.



U.S. Healthcare Reform.In March 2010, the Patient
    Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”) and
    the companion Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act, which
    made certain changes and adjustments to the PPACA, primarily
    with respect to the PPACA’s financial and budgetary
    impacts, were signed into law. We refer to those two laws
    collectively as the “new healthcare reform law.” The
    new healthcare reform law imposes additional costs on and
    reduces the revenue of companies in the biotechnology and
    pharmaceutical industries. The following paragraphs describe
    certain provisions of the new healthcare reform law that will
    affect the reimbursement of our products.



The new healthcare reform law increased the rebates we pay to
    the states for our products that are covered and reimbursed by
    state Medicaid programs. The healthcare reform law increased the
    minimum base Medicaid rebate rate payable on our products
    reimbursed by Medicaid from 15.1% to 23.1% of the AMP of the
    product, or if it is greater, the difference between the AMP and
    the best price available from us to any non-government customer.
    The change in the minimum rebate percentage was effective on
    January 1, 2010. The healthcare reform law also extended
    the Medicaid drug rebate program to patients in Medicaid managed
    care insurance plans for whom rebates were not previously
    required. The extension of rebates to patients in Medicaid
    managed care plans was effective on March 23, 2010.





Since the Medicare Part D drug benefit took effect in 2006,
    beneficiaries enrolled in Part D plans have been required
    to pay 100% of their prescription drug costs after their total
    drug spending exceeds an initial coverage limit until they
    qualify for catastrophic coverage. This coverage gap is
    sometimes referred to as the Part D “doughnut
    hole.” The new healthcare reform law reduces the
    “doughnut hole” by requiring manufacturers like us to
    provide a 50% discount to Medicare Part D patients whose
    prescription expenses exceed the Part D prescription drug
    coverage limit but have not yet reached the catastrophic
    coverage threshold. This provision became effective
    January 1, 2011.



The new healthcare reform law also expands the Medicaid
    eligibility to include those with incomes up to 133% of the
    federal poverty level (“FPL”), from 100% of the FPL.
    This provision becomes effective January 1, 2014.



We estimate that the total impact of U.S. healthcare reform
    in 2011 to us, including the industry fee described above, will
    be in the range of $400 million to $500 million.





Reimbursement
    Outside the United States



Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United
    States, government-sponsored healthcare systems have
    traditionally been the primary payers of all healthcare costs,
    including payment for drugs and biologicals. Over the past
    several years, the reimbursement environment in Europe has
    become very challenging, with the advent of Health Technology
    Assessment (“HTA”) organizations (eg, NICE in the UK)
    that make recommendationsand/ordeterminations of coverage and reimbursement based on both the
    clinical as well as the economic value of a product. Although
    the methods employed by different HTA agencies vary from country
    to country, the use of formal economic metrics has been
    increasing across Europe as well as in several emerging markets
    throughout the world. In addition to determining whether or not
    a new product will be reimbursed, these agencies are becoming
    increasingly involved in setting the maximum price at which the
    product will be reimbursed — the
    “value-based” price for a product.



With increased budgetary constraints, payers in many countries
    employ a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure.
    In some countries, international price referencing is the
    primary mechanism for price control whereby the ceiling price of
    a pharmaceutical or biological product is set based on the
    prices in particular benchmark countries. These price
    referencing rules are increasing in complexity as prices become
    more transparent and payers seek lower-price benchmarks against
    which to compare themselves. Additional cost-containment
    measures can include therapeutic reference pricing (eg, setting
    the reimbursement rate for a given class of agents at the lowest
    price within the class), generic substitution and
    government-mandated price cuts.



While mandatory price reductions have been a recurring aspect of
    business for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in
    the EU, given the current worldwide economic conditions, some EU
    governmental agencies have increased the frequencyand/orsize
    of such mandatory price reductions to extract further cost
    savings. For example, in 2010, countries such as Greece
    announced price reductionsand/ormandated rebates for certain pharmaceutical and biological
    products that substantially exceeded prior levels. Other
    countries may followand/ortake
    similar or more extensive actions to reduce expenditures on
    drugs and biologics, including implementing mandatory price
    reductions, establishing preferences for biosimilar products, or
    reducing the amount of reimbursement.



In many countries, the influence of regional and hospital payers
    also contributes to whether patients have access to certain
    products. For example, a product may be successfully listed on a
    national formulary, but may also be subject to further
    evaluations or competitive bidding by payers at a regional or
    hospital level. Finally, payers in some countries are beginning
    to experiment with alternative payment mechanisms (eg, payment
    caps) as a means to maintain access to innovative therapies.



Fraud and
    Abuse Regulations Related to Reimbursement



As participants in government reimbursement programs, we are
    subject to various U.S. federal and state laws, as well as
    foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare “fraud and
    abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws.
    (See Government Regulation — Other.) Violations of
    fraud and abuse laws can result in stringent enforcement
    penalties up to and including complete exclusion from federal
    healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid).



Manufacturing,
    Distribution and Raw Materials



Manufacturing



Biological products, which are produced in living systems, are
    inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular
    variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process
    and product characterization are required to transform
    laboratory scale processes into reproducible commercial
    manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing operations consist of
    bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish and
    distribution activities. Bulk manufacturing includes
    fermentation and cell culture, which are the processes by which
    our proteins are produced. The proteins are purified to a high
    quality and then formulated into a stable form. The fill process





dispenses the formulated bulk protein into vials or syringes.
    Finally, in the finish process, our products are packaged for
    distribution.



We operate commercialand/orclinical manufacturing facilities in the United States, Puerto
    Rico and the Netherlands. (See Item 2. Properties.)
    Manufacturing of
    Sensipar®/Mimpara®,

    our small molecule product, is currently performed by
    third-party contract manufacturers, although we are in the
    process of transferring certain finishing aspects to our
    facility in Puerto Rico. We also use and expect to continue to
    use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in
    the production of certain of our large molecule marketed
    products, including ENBREL,
    Nplate®,

    Prolia®and
    XGEVAtmas well as a number of our clinical product candidates. In
    addition to producing our own commercial quantities of Epoetin
    alfa, we also supply Epoetin alfa in the United States to
    J&J under a supply agreement. (See Business
    Relationships — Johnson & Johnson.)



The global supply of our principal products depends on actively
    managing the inventory produced at our facilities and by
    third-party contract manufacturers and the uninterrupted and
    efficient operation of our facilities and those of our
    third-party contract manufacturers. During the manufacturingscale-upprocess, and even after achieving sustainable commercial
    manufacturing, we may encounter difficulties or disruptions due
    to defects in raw materials or equipment, contamination or other
    factors that could impact product availability. (See
    Item 1A. Risk Factors — Manufacturing
    difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our
    products and limit our product sales and — We rely on
    third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical
    devices and components.)



We have obtained from various parties certain licenses we deem
    necessary or desirable for the manufacture of our products. The
    licenses generally require us to pay royalties to the licensors
    based on product sales.



Commercial
    Bulk Manufacturing



We operate commercial bulk manufacturing facilities in Puerto
    Rico and in several locations throughout the United States. (See
    Item 2. Properties.) We perform all of the commercial bulk
    manufacturing of all of our proteins except ENBREL,
    Prolia®and
    XGEVAtm,

    which we supplement with a third-party contract manufacturer.



Commercial
    Formulation, Fill and Finish Manufacturing



Our primary commercial formulation, fill and finish
    manufacturing facility is located in Puerto Rico. We perform the
    commercial formulation, fill and finish manufacturing for our
    proteins at that facility, except for
    Vectibix®and
    Nplate®.

    We operate a commercial formulation, fill and finish
    manufacturing facility in the United States for
    Vectibix®and the formulation, fill and finish for
    Nplate®is performed by a third-party contract manufacturer. In addition
    to the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL performed by us in
    Puerto Rico, fill and finish of a certain portion of ENBREL is
    also performed by third-party contract manufacturers. We also
    conduct certain finish activities in the Netherlands. (See
    Item 2. Properties.)



Clinical
    Manufacturing



Clinical bulk, formulation, fill and finish manufacturing
    facilities are operated primarily in our Thousand Oaks,
    California location. (See Item 2. Properties.) Certain
    finishing activities for our clinical products are performed in
    the Netherlands. In addition, we also utilize third-party
    contract manufacturers for certain of our clinical products.



See Item 1A. Risk Factors — We perform a
    substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing activities at
    our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility and a substantial amount
    of our clinical manufacturing activities at our Thousand Oaks,
    California manufacturing facility; if significant natural
    disasters or production failures occur at the Puerto Rico
    facility, we may not be able to supply these products or, at the
    Thousand Oaks facility, we may not be able to continue our
    clinical trials.



Distribution



We operate distribution centers in the United States,
    principally in Kentucky and California, and in the Netherlands
    for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and
    clinical products. In addition, we also





use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our
    commercial and clinical products in certain areas of the world.



Other



In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities
    noted above, our operations in the United States, Puerto Rico
    and the Netherlands perform key manufacturing support functions,
    including quality control, process development, procurement,
    distribution and production scheduling. Certain of those
    manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated
    by the FDA as well as other international regulatory agencies.
    (See Government Regulation — FDA Regulation of
    Manufacturing Standards.)



Manufacturing
    Initiatives



We have multiple ongoing initiatives that are designed to
    optimize our manufacturing network and mitigate risks while
    continuing to ensure adequate supply of our commercial products.
    For example, we are completing the construction and
    qualification of a new formulation and filling facility at our
    Puerto Rico site in order to mitigate the risk associated with
    the majority of our formulation and fill operations being
    performed in a single facility and we are qualifying the
    expansion of our existing bulk protein facilities at our Puerto
    Rico site in order to maintain supply and to satisfy anticipated
    future demand for denosumab. Upon completion, the facilities
    will require licensure by the various regulatory authorities.



We have also entered into an agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim
    (“BI”) for the divestiture of our manufacturing
    facility in Fremont, California to further optimize our
    manufacturing network.



In addition to these projects, we have initiatives designed to
    operate our facilities at appropriate production capacity over
    the next few years, further optimize manufacturing asset
    utilization, continue our use of third-party contract
    manufacturers and maintain a state of regulatory compliance.
    (See Item 1A. Risk Factors — Manufacturing
    difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our
    products and limit our product sales.)



Raw
    Materials and Medical Devices



Certain raw materials necessary for the commercial and clinical
    bulk manufacturing of our products are provided by unaffiliated
    third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only source
    for such materials. Also, certain medical devices and components
    necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of our products
    are provided by unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of
    which may be the sole source. Certain of the raw materials,
    medical devices and components are the proprietary products of
    those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically
    cited in our drug application with regulatory agencies so that
    they must be obtained from the specific sole source or sources
    and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until
    the regulatory agency approved such supplier. We currently
    attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by
    inventory management, relationship management and evaluation of
    alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial
    condition of certain suppliers, their ability to supply our
    needs and the market conditions for these items.



Certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and
    clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other
    countriesand/orderived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues. In
    addition, one of our marketed products also uses bovine serum
    and human serum albumin (“HSA”). Some countries in
    which we market our products may restrict the use of certain
    biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. We
    continue to investigate alternatives to certain biological
    sources and alternative manufacturing processes that do not
    require the use of certain biologically derived substances
    because such raw materials may be subject to contaminationand/orrecall. A material shortage, contamination, recalland/orrestriction of the use of certain biologically derived
    substances or other raw materials, which may be sourced from
    other countries and that are used in the manufacture of our
    products could adversely impact or disrupt the commercial
    manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated
    withdrawal of our products from the market. (See Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — We rely on third-party suppliers for
    certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.)





We perform various procedures to assist in authenticating the
    source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used
    in the manufacture of our products, which include verification
    of the country of origin. These procedures are incorporated into
    the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract
    manufacturers perform.



Business
    Relationships



From time to time, we enter into business relationships
    including, joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for
    the R&D, manufactureand/orcommercialization of products and product candidates. In
    addition, we also acquire product and R&D technology rights
    and establish R&D collaborations with third-parties to
    enhance our strategic position within our industry by
    strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities,
    product pipeline and marketed product base. These arrangements
    generally provide for non-refundable upfront license fees,
    R&D and commercial performance milestone payments, cost
    sharing, royalty paymentsand/orprofit sharing. Our collaboration agreements are performed on a
    “best efforts” basis with no guarantee of either
    technological or commercial success and each is unique in nature.



Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and
    proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade
    secrets, we generally require parties to business relationships
    to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of
    the business relationship with us. However, others could either
    develop independently the same or similar information or obtain
    access to our information.



Kirin
    Holdings Company, Limited



We formed KA, a50-50joint
    venture with Kirin in 1984. KA develops and commercializes
    certain of our and Kirin’s product rights, which have been
    transferred to this joint venture. KA has given exclusive
    licenses to us to manufacture and market: (i) darbepoetin
    alfa in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New
    Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and
    certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East,
    (ii) pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in the United States, Europe,
    Canada, Australia and New Zealand, (iii) recombinant human
    erythropoietin in the United States and (iv) romiplostim in
    the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand,
    Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain
    countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East. We
    currently market darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, G-CSF,
    recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim under the brand
    names
    Aranesp®,

    Neulasta®,

    NEUPOGEN®/GRANULOKINE®,

    EPOGEN®and
    Nplate®,

    respectively.



KA has also given exclusive licenses to Kirin to manufacture and
    market: (i) darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, G-CSF and
    romiplostim in Japan, the People’s Republic of China
    (“China”), Taiwan, Korea and certain other countries
    in Asia, and (ii) recombinant human erythropoietin in Japan
    and China. Kirin markets darbepoetin alfa in Japan under the
    brand name
    NESP®.

    Kirin markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in
    China under separate agreements with KA. Kirin markets its G-CSF
    product in its respective territories under the trademark
    GRAN®/Grasin®/Filgrastim®.

    Kirin markets its recombinant human erythropoietin product in
    Japan under the trademark
    ESPO®.

    Kirin also markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in
    China under a separate agreement with Amgen Greater China Ltd.,
    a subsidiary of Amgen Inc.



KA has licensed to J&J rights to recombinant human
    erythropoietin in all geographic areas of the world outside the
    United States, China and Japan. (See Johnson &
    Johnson.) Under its agreement with KA, J&J pays a royalty
    to KA based on sales. KA has also licensed to Roche rights to
    pegfilgrastim and G-CSF in certain geographic areas of the world.



In connection with our various license agreements with KA, we
    pay KA royalties based on product sales. In addition, we also
    receive payment from KA for conducting certain R&D
    activities on its behalf. (See Note 7, Related party
    transactions to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)





Johnson &
    Johnson



We granted J&J a license to commercialize recombinant human
    erythropoietin as a human therapeutic in the United States in
    all indications other than dialysis and diagnostics. All
    recombinant human erythropoietin sold by J&J in the United
    States is manufactured by us and sold by J&J under the
    trademark
    PROCRIT®(Epoetin alfa).
    PROCRIT®brand Epoetin alfa is identical to
    EPOGEN®brand Epoetin alfa, which is manufactured and sold by us in the
    U.S. market for the dialysis indication. Pursuant to the
    license agreement with J&J, we earn a 10% royalty on net
    sales of
    PROCRIT®by J&J in the United States.



Outside the United States, with the exception of China and
    Japan, J&J was granted rights to manufacture and
    commercialize recombinant human erythropoietin as a human
    therapeutic for all uses under a licensing agreement with KA.
    With respect to its sales outside of the United States, J&J
    manufactures and commercializes its own brand of Epoetin alfa
    which is then sold by a subsidiary of J&J under various
    trademarks such as
    EPREX®and
    ERYPO®.

    We are not involved in the manufacture of Epoetin alfa sold by
    J&J outside of the United States.



Pfizer
    Inc.



agreed-upon



Glaxo
    Group Limited



In July 2009, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Glaxo for the commercialization of denosumab for osteoporosis
    indications in Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico (the
    “Primary Territories”). We retained the rights to
    commercialize denosumab for all indications in the United States
    and Canada and for oncology indications in the Primary
    Territories. Under a related agreement, Glaxo will commercialize
    denosumab for all indications in countries, excluding Japan,
    where we do not currently have a commercial presence, including
    China, Brazil, India, Taiwan and South Korea (the
    “Expansion Territories”). In the Expansion
    Territories, Glaxo will be responsible for all development and
    commercialization costs and will purchase denosumab from us to
    meet demand. We have the option of expanding our role in the
    future in the commercialization of denosumab in the Primary
    Territories and certain of the Expansion Territories. In the
    Primary Territories, we share equally in the commercialization
    profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting
    for expenses, including an amount payable to us in recognition
    of our discovery and development of denosumab. Glaxo will also
    be responsible for bearing a portion of the cost of certain
    specified development activities in the Primary Territories.



Takeda
    Pharmaceutical Company Limited



In February 2008, we entered into a collaboration agreement with
    Takeda, which provides Takeda the exclusive rights to develop
    and commercialize for the Japanese market up to 12 clinical
    stage molecules from our pipeline across a range of therapeutic
    areas, including oncology and inflammation. The products include
    Vectibix®which received regulatory approval in Japan in 2010 for
    unresectable, advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer with
    wild-typeKRAS, AMG 386, which is in a phase 3 trial in
    the United States for recurrent ovarian cancer, and





ganitumab (AMG 479) which is expected to enter into a phase
    3 trial in the United States for first-line metastatic
    pancreatic cancer in 2011. We have the right to participate in
    the promotion of the products in Japan. In addition, we entered
    into a collaboration agreement with Takeda for the worldwide
    development and commercialization of our product candidate
    motesanib in the oncology area. Each party has the right to
    participate in the commercialization of motesanib in the other
    party’s territory.



Daiichi
    Sankyo Company, Limited



In July 2007, we entered into a collaboration and license
    agreement with Daiichi Sankyo, which provides Daiichi Sankyo the
    exclusive rights to develop and commercialize denosumab in Japan
    in postmenopausal osteoporosis (“PMO”), oncology and
    certain other indications. As part of the agreement, Amgen
    received exclusive worldwide rights to certain Daiichi Sankyo
    intellectual property to the extent applicable to denosumab.



Fresenius
    Medical Care North America



In October 2006, we entered into a five-year sole sourcing and
    supply agreement with an affiliate of Fresenius Medical Care
    North America (“Fresenius North America”) (a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Fresenius Medical Care), on its behalf and
    on behalf of certain of its affiliates, whereby Fresenius North
    America agreed to purchase, and we have agreed to supply, all of
    Fresenius North America’s commercial requirements for ESAs
    for use in managing the anemia of its hemodialysis patients in
    the United States and Puerto Rico, based on forecasts provided
    by Fresenius and subject to the terms and conditions of the
    agreement.



Government
    Regulation



Regulation by government authorities in the United States and
    other countries is a significant factor in the production and
    marketing of our products and our ongoing R&D activities.



In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for
    therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety
    and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory
    bodies. In the United States, the Public Health Service Act, the
    Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) and the
    regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as other federal and
    state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the
    raw materials and components used in the production, research,
    development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling,
    storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion,
    and distribution of our products. Failure to comply with the
    applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to a variety
    of administrativeand/orjudicially imposed sanctions. The sanctions could include the
    FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawals
    of approvals, delay or suspension of clinical trials, warning
    letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial
    suspension of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil
    penaltiesand/orcriminal prosecution.



Clinical Development.We must conduct extensive clinical
    trials designed to establish the safety and efficacy of product
    candidates in order to file for regulatory approval to market a
    product. Product development and approval within that regulatory
    framework takes a number of years and involves our expenditure
    of substantial resources, and any approval we obtain remains
    costly for us to maintain. After laboratory analysis and
    preclinical testing in animals, we file an investigational new
    drug application (“IND”) with the FDA to begin human
    testing. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days
    after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA raises concerns or
    questions. In such a case, we and the FDA must resolve any
    outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin.



Typically, we undertake a three-phase human clinical testing
    program. In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to
    investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product
    candidates in a small number of human subjects. In phase 2, we
    conduct clinical trials to investigate side effect profiles and
    the efficacy of our product candidates in a larger number of
    patients who have the disease or condition under study. In phase
    3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the safety and
    efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients
    who have the disease or condition under study. The time and
    expense required for us to perform this clinical testing is
    substantial and may vary by product. For example, the clinical
    trials for the BLA for
    Prolia®/XGEVAtmwere large and required substantial time and resources to
    recruit patients and significant expense to execute.
    Historically, our products have required smaller, shorter
    trials. Foreign studies performed under an IND must meet the
    same





requirements that apply to U.S. studies. The FDA will
    accept a foreign clinical study not conducted under an IND only
    if the study is well-designed, well-conducted, performed by
    qualified investigators, and conforms to good clinical practice.
    Phase 1, 2 and 3 testing may not be completed successfully
    within any specified time period, if at all. (See Item 1A.
    Risk Factors — We may not be able to develop
    commercial products.) The FDA monitors the progress of each
    trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion,
    re-evaluate, alter, suspend, or terminate the testing based on
    the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s
    risk/benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in
    the trial. (See Item 1A. Risk Factors — We must
    conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize
    and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for
    new indications.)



Applications.The results of preclinical and clinical
    trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for
    biologic products subject to the Public Health Service Act or a
    new drug application (“NDA”) for drugs subject to the
    approval provisions of the FDCA. The submission of the
    application is no guarantee that the FDA will find it complete
    and accept it for filing. If an application is accepted for
    filing, following the FDA’s review, the FDA may grant
    marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the
    application if it determines that the application does not
    provide an adequate basis for approval. We cannot take any
    action to market any new drug or biologic product in the United
    States until our appropriate marketing application has been
    approved by the FDA.



Post-approval Phase.



The FDAAA also gave the FDA authority to require companies to
    implement a REMS for a product to ensure that the benefits of
    the drugs outweigh the risks. While risk management activities
    and programs are not new, with FDAAA the FDA gained new
    authority to implement specific risk management requirements and
    new enforcement power to ensure that the goals of the REMS are
    being met. The FDA began to implement REMS in 2008. The FDA may
    require the submission of a REMS before a product is approved or
    after approval based on new safety information, including new
    analyses of existing safety information. In determining whether
    a product will require a REMS before the product is approved,
    the FDA may consider a number of factors including:



•estimated size of the population likely to use the product;•seriousness of the condition treated and expected benefits of
    the product;•duration of treatment with the product;•seriousness of known or potential adverse events associated with
    the product; and•whether the product is a new molecular entity.





All REMS are required to have a timetable for assessment and may
    have one or more of the following:







•distribution of a medication guide or a patient package insert
    to patients;•communication plan for the healthcare provider or institution,
    such as a Dear Healthcare Professional Letter;•elements to assure safe use including, but not limited to:



¡specific training, experience or certification for prescribers;¡certification of medication dispensing sites and dispensing in
    limited settings;¡monitoring of specific patients; and¡enrollment of patients in a registry.



Each REMS is unique and varies depending on the specific factors
    required. While the elements of REMS may vary, all REMS require
    the sponsor to submit periodic assessment reports to the FDA to
    demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met. Failure to
    comply with a REMS, including submission of a required
    assessment or any modification to a REMS, may result in
    substantial civil or criminal penalties and can result in
    additional limitations being placed on a product’s use and,
    potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. We
    currently have approved REMS for our ESAs, ENBREL,
    Prolia®and
    Nplate®.

    Because REMS are relatively new, the FDA and sponsor companies
    continue to learn how best to implement, operate and monitor the
    effectiveness of REMS, and the requirements of our REMS and
    those of other companies may change over time.



®

®

®

®

®

®,

®

tm



The FDA also uses various advisory committees of external
    experts to assist in its mission to protect and promote the
    public health, to obtain independent expert advice on
    scientific, technical and policy matters. The committees are
    generally advisory only and FDA officials are not bound to or
    limited by their recommendations. We have participated in
    meetings of the ODAC, the CRDAC and the Advisory Committee for
    Reproductive Health Drugs, among others, to address certain
    issues related to our products, including
    Aranesp®,

    EPOGEN®and
    Prolia®.



FDA Approval of Biosimilar Products.The new healthcare
    reform law authorizes the FDA to approve biosimilar products
    under a separate, abbreviated pathway. The new law establishes a
    period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference
    products in order to preserve incentives for future innovation
    and outlines statutory criteria for science-based biosimilar
    approval standards that take into account patient safety
    considerations. Under this framework, data exclusivity protects
    the data in the innovator’s regulatory application by
    prohibiting others, for a period of 12 years, from gaining
    FDA approval based in part on reliance or reference to the
    innovator’s data in their application to the FDA. The new
    law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic
    products. While the FDA now has the authority to approve
    biosimilar products, the FDA has not announced whether it will
    first





publish guidance or rules for biosimilar applicants before
    approving biosimilar products. The FDA held a public meeting in
    November 2010 to seek stakeholder input on the subject and
    accepted written comments through 2010.



FDA Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion.The
    FDA closely reviews and regulates the marketing and promotion of
    products. We are required to obtain FDA approval before
    marketing or promoting a product as a treatment for a particular
    indication. Our product promotion for approved product
    indications must comply with the statutory standards of the
    FDCA, and the FDA’s implementing regulations and standards.
    The FDA’s review of marketing and promotional activities
    encompasses, but is not limited to,direct-to-consumeradvertising, healthcare provider-directed advertising and
    promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare
    professionals, promotional programming and promotional
    activities involving the Internet. The FDA may also review
    industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities. The
    FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting
    unapproved uses of a product (“off-label promotion”)
    or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and
    regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures,
    injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters,
    which may require corrective advertising or other corrective
    communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply
    with the FDA’s regulations also can result in adverse
    publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the
    U.S. Congress or other legislators.



FDA Regulation of Manufacturing Standards.The FDA
    regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and
    processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products
    prior to providing approval to market a product. If after
    receiving approval from the FDA, we make a material change in
    manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional
    regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to
    current Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”)
    regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by the FDA
    through its facilities inspection program. The FDA also conducts
    regular, periodic visits to re-inspect our equipment,
    facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial
    approval. If, as a result of those inspections, the FDA
    determines that our equipment, facilities, laboratories or
    processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and
    conditions of product approval, the FDA may seek civil, criminal
    or administrative sanctionsand/orremedies against us, including suspension of our manufacturing
    operations. Such issues may also delay the approval of new
    products undergoing FDA review.



Approval and Post-Approval Regulation Outside the United
    States.

sub-pathway

follow-up



Other.We are also subject to various federal and state
    laws, as well as foreign laws, pertaining to healthcare
    “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and
    false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to
    solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for,
    or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase
    or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a
    state or federal program. The federal government and the states
    have published regulations that identify “safe
    harbors” or exemptions for certain arrangements that do not





and/or



We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety
    and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource
    Conservation and Recovery Act and other current and potential
    future federal, state or local laws, rulesand/orregulations. Our R&D activities involve the controlled use
    of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials and
    various radioactive compounds. We believe our procedures comply
    with the standards prescribed by federal, state or local laws,
    rulesand/orregulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental
    contamination cannot be completely eliminated. While we are not
    required to do so, we strive to conduct our research and
    manufacturing activities in a manner that meets the intents and
    purposes of the National Institutes of Health Guidelines for
    Recombinant DNA Research.



Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
    (“FCPA”) prohibits U.S. corporations and their
    representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making
    payments to any foreign government official, government staff
    member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to
    obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes
    interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many
    countries.



Our present and future business has been and will continue to be
    subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rulesand/orregulations.



Research
    and Development and Selected Product Candidates



Our vision is to deliver therapeutics that can make a meaningful
    difference in patients’ lives. Therefore, we focus our
    R&D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of
    grievous illness in the areas of oncology, hematology,
    inflammation, bone, nephrology, cardiovascular and general
    medicine, which includes neurology. We take a
    modality-independent approach to R&D — that is,
    we identify targets, and then choose the modality best suited to
    address a specific target. As such, our discovery research
    programs may yield targets that lead to the development of human
    therapeutics delivered as large molecules (such as proteins,
    antibodies and peptibodies) or small molecules.



We have major R&D centers in several locations throughout
    the United States and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller
    research centers in Canada and Germany, and smaller development
    facilities throughout Europe and in Canada, Australia, Mexico,
    Hong Kong and India. (See Item 2. Properties.)



To execute our clinical trial programs, we need to maintain an
    effective development organization and associated R&D
    support organizations. We conduct clinical trial activities with
    both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial
    service providers. In order to increase the number of patients
    available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we have and
    will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a
    number of geographic locations. (See Item 1A. Risk
    Factors — We must conduct clinical trials in humans
    before we can commercialize and sell any of our product
    candidates or existing products for new indications.)



Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R&D in
    areas where we have products or where we are developing product
    candidates or new indications for existing products. For
    example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible
    patients, which may limit the number of available patients who
    meet the criteria for certain





clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product
    candidates is significantly dependent upon the timing of entry
    into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in
    gaining product acceptance, contributing to the product’s
    eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that
    in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop
    products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval
    and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market is
    expected to be important to our competitive position.



In addition to product candidates and marketed products
    generated from our internal R&D efforts, we acquire
    companies, acquire and license certain product and R&D
    technology rights and establish R&D collaborations with
    third parties to enhance our strategic position within our
    industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D
    capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These
    licenses and collaboration agreements generally provide for
    non-refundable upfront license fees, R&D and commercial
    performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty paymentsand/orprofit sharing.



Various public and privately owned companies, research
    organizations, academic institutions and governmental agencies
    conduct a significant amount of R&D in the biotechnology
    industry. We face competition in pursuing collaborative
    arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities from other
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to
    license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed
    products from these entities. Accordingly, we may have
    difficulty entering into collaborative arrangements and
    licensing or acquiring technologies, product candidates and
    marketed products on acceptable terms.



See Government Regulation — Clinical Development for a
    discussion of the government regulation over clinical
    development.





The following table is a selection of certain of our product
    candidates by phase of development in our therapeutic areas of
    focus as of February 9, 2011, unless otherwise indicated.
    Each target indication for product candidates in phase 3 is
    listed separately. Additional product candidate (pipeline)
    information can be found on our website athttp://www.amgen.com.(This website address is not intended to function as a
    hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not
    intended to be a part of this filing.)





MoleculeDisease/ConditionTherapeutic Area



Phase 3 Programs

AMG 386Ovarian cancerHematology/Oncology

Ganitumab (AMG 479)Pancreatic cancerHematology/Oncology

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)Anemia in heart failureNephrology

MotesanibFirst-line non-small cell lung cancerHematology/Oncology

Prolia®(denosumab)Male osteoporosisBone

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)Cardiovascular disease in patients with secondary
    hyperparathyroidism and chronic kidney disease undergoing
    maintenance dialysisNephrology

Vectibix®(panitumumab)First- and second-line colorectal cancerHematology/Oncology

XGEVAtm(denosumab)Prevention of bone metastases in prostate cancerHematology/Oncology

XGEVAtm(denosumab)Prevention of bone metastases in breast cancerHematology/Oncology



Phase 2 Programs

AMG 386Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

Ganitumab (AMG 479)Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 785Bone-related conditions, including postmenopausal osteoporosis
    and fracture healingBone

AMG 827Inflammatory diseasesInflammation

AMG 853AsthmaInflammation

ConatumumabVarious cancer typesHematology/Oncology

DenosumabRheumatoid arthritisInflammation

MotesanibFirst-line breast cancerHematology/Oncology

Nplate®(romiplostim)Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopeniaHematology/Oncology

Nplate®(romiplostim)Myelodysplastic syndromesHematology/Oncology

Omecamtiv mecarbil (AMG 423)Heart failureCardiovascular

Rilotumumab (AMG 102)Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)Post Renal TransplantNephrology

Vectibix®(panitumumab)Locally advanced head and neck cancerHematology/Oncology



Phase 1 Programs

AMG 139Inflammatory diseasesInflammation

AMG 145HypercholesterolemiaCardiovascular

AMG 151Type 2 diabetesGeneral Medicine

AMG 157AsthmaInflammation

AMG 167Bone-related conditionsBone

AMG 181Ulcerative colitisInflammation

AMG 191Inflammatory diseasesInflammation

AMG 208Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 221Type 2 diabetesGeneral Medicine

AMG 319Hematologic malignanciesHematology/Oncology

AMG 337Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 557Systemic lupus erythematosusInflammation

AMG 745Muscle-wasting disordersGeneral Medicine

AMG 747NeuroscienceGeneral Medicine

AMG 761AsthmaInflammation

AMG 780Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 811Systemic lupus erythematosusInflammation

AMG 820Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 888Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

AMG 900Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology

Dulanermin (rhApo2L/TRAIL)Various cancer typesHematology/Oncology







Phase 1clinical trials investigate safety
    and proper dose ranges of a product candidate in a small number
    of human subjects.Phase 2clinical trials investigate side
    effect profiles and efficacy of a product candidate in a large
    number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.Phase 3clinical trials investigate the
    safety and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of
    patients who have the disease or condition under study.





The following text provides additional information about
    selected product candidates that have advanced into human
    clinical trials.



AMG



AMG 386 is a peptibody that inhibits the interaction between the
    endothelial cell-selective Tie2 receptor and its ligands Ang1
    and Ang2. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.



In 2007 and 2008, we initiated five randomized phase 2 studies
    of AMG 386 for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma
    (“RCC”), metastatic breast cancer, ovarian cancer,
    gastric cancer and colorectal cancer, and numerous other
    supportive studies. In June 2010 at a medical meeting, we
    presented the results from the phase 2 recurrent ovarian cancer
    trial. Based on study results, we initiated a phase 3 study in
    recurrent ovarian cancer in 2010. We also initiated a phase 1b
    study in first-line ovarian cancer in 2010. We are initiating
    other phase 2 studies in 2011.



Ganitumab
    (AMG 479)



Ganitumab (AMG 479) is a fully human monoclonal antibody
    antagonist of IGF-1 receptor. It is being investigated as a
    cancer treatment.



In 2007, we initiated a phase 2 study of ganitumab (AMG
    479) as a potential cancer therapeutic in Ewing’s
    sarcoma. We also initiated, in 2008, phase 2 studies for the
    treatment of advanced breast, pancreatic, colorectal and small
    cell lung cancers. We reported the results from the phase 2
    Ewing’s sarcoma and pancreatic cancer studies at a medical
    meeting in June 2010 and results from the breast cancer study at
    a meeting in December 2010. Results from a study in mCRC in
    combination with
    Vectibix®were reported at a meeting in January 2011. We are initiating a
    phase 3 study in first-line metastatic pancreatic cancer in 2011.



Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)



Aranesp®is a recombinant human protein agonist of the erythropoietin
    receptor.



The Reduction of Events with Darbepoetin alfa in Heart Failure
    (“RED-HF®”)

    Trial phase 3 study, initiated in 2006, is a large (2,600
    subjects planned), global, randomized, double-blind,
    placebo-controlled study to evaluate the effect of treatment of
    anemia with darbepoetin alfa on morbidity and mortality in
    patients with symptomatic left ventricular heart failure. The
    RED-HF®Trial continues to enroll subjects and we anticipate completion
    of the study in 2012.



Motesanib



Motesanib is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of
    vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1, 2 and 3,
    platelet-derived growth factor receptors and stem cell factor
    receptor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment. We are
    developing this product in collaboration with Takeda/Millennium
    Pharmaceuticals.



Enrollment in the phase 3 first-line NSCLC study (MONET1)
    evaluating motesanib in combination with paclitaxel and
    carboplatin for the first-line treatment of advanced NSCLC is
    complete. Based on current event rates, we anticipate completion
    of the study in the first half of 2011.



At a medical meeting in June 2010, we shared the results of
    biomarkers as predictors of response to treatment with motesanib
    or bevacizumab in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel in
    patients with NSCLC or in combination with paclitaxel in
    patients with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.



Denosumab



Denosumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that specifically
    targets a ligand known as RANKL (that binds to a receptor known
    as RANK) which is a key mediator of osteoclast formation,
    function, and survival. Denosumab is being studied across a
    range of conditions including osteoporosis, treatment-induced
    bone loss, RA and numerous tumor types across the spectrum of
    cancer-related bone diseases.



Prolia®(denosumab)



The phase 3 study evaluating
    Prolia®patients with male osteoporosis is ongoing.





XGEVAtm(denosumab)



In February 2010, we announced that a pivotal, phase 3,head-to-headstudy evaluating
    XGEVAtmversus
    Zometa®(zoledronic acid) in the treatment of bone metastases in 1,901
    men with advanced prostate cancer met its primary and secondary
    endpoints.
    XGEVAtmdemonstrated superiority over
    Zometa®for both delaying the time to the first on-study SRE (fracture,
    radiation to bone, surgery to bone or spinal cord compression)
    (hazard ratio (“HR”) 0.82, 95% confidence interval
    (“CI”): 0.71, 0.95), and reducing the rate of multiple
    SREs (HR 0.82, 95% CI: 0.71, 0.94). Both results were
    statistically significant.



In December 2010, we announced top-line results from a phase 3
    trial evaluating
    XGEVAtmversus placebo in 1,432 men with non-metastatic
    castrate-resistant prostate cancer. The trial, known as the
    ’147 study, demonstrated that
    XGEVAtmsignificantly improved median bone metastasis-free survival by
    4.2 months (HR=0.85, 95%CI 0.73-0.98,p=0.03) compared to placebo (primary endpoint), and
    significantly improved time to first occurrence of bone
    metastases (secondary endpoint). Overall survival was similar
    between the
    XGEVAtmand placebo groups (secondary endpoint). Overall rates of
    adverse events and serious adverse events were generally similar
    between
    XGEVAtmand placebo, with hypocalcemia and osteonecrosis of the jaw
    (“ONJ”) observed at increased frequencies in the
    XGEVAtmarm. The yearly rate of ONJ in the
    XGEVAtm-treated

    group was similar to what has been observed in prior
    XGEVAtmtrials. This study will form the basis of planned marketing
    applications, which we expect to submit to regulatory
    authorities beginning in the first half of 2011, for a new
    indication for the prevention of bone metastases in prostate
    cancer.



Also, we are currently conducting a study for the prevention of
    bone metastases in patients with breast cancer and are planning
    an additional SRE study in patients with multiple myeloma.



Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)



Sensipar®/Mimpara®is an orally-administered small molecule that lowers PTH levels
    in blood by signaling through the calcium-sensing receptor in
    parathyroid tissue to inhibit PTH secretion. It also lowers
    blood calcium and phosphorous levels.



The phase 3 EValuation Of Cinacalcet HCl Therapy to Lower
    CardioVascular Events
    (“E.V.O.L.V.Etm”)

    trial, initiated in 2006, is a large (3,800 patient),
    multi-center, international, randomized, double-blind study to
    assess the effects of
    Sensipar®/Mimpara®in mortality and cardiovascular morbidity in patients with CKD
    undergoing maintenance dialysis. The
    E.V.O.L.V.Etmstudy completed enrollment in January 2008. Based on current
    event rates, we anticipate completion of the study in dialysis
    patients in 2012.



Sensipar®/Mimpara®is also being evaluated in post renal transplant patients.



Vectibix®(panitumumab)



Vectibix®is a monoclonal antibody antagonist of the EGFr pathway. It is
    being investigated as a cancer treatment.



On April 16, 2010, our application for marketing
    authorization for the use of
    Vectibix®in first- and second-line treatment of mCRC in patients whose
    tumors contain wild-typeKRASgenes was submitted to the
    EMA. In the United States, we filed supplemental BLA submissions
    for first- and second-line mCRC with the FDA on October 29,
    and November 4, 2010.



In August 2010, we announced top-line results from a randomized
    phase 3 trial evaluating
    Vectibix®as a first-line treatment in patients with recurrentand/ormetastatic squamous cell head and neck cancer. The data showed
    the addition of
    Vectibix®to platinum-based chemotherapy did not result in a statistically
    significant improvement in overall survival, the primary
    endpoint, compared to chemotherapy alone [median
    11.1 months versus 9.0 months, HR 0.87 (95% CI: 0.73,
    1.05)]. Secondary endpoints of progression-free survival [median
    5.8 months versus 4.6 months, HR 0.78 (95% CI: 0.66,
    0.92)] and objective response rate (36% versus 25%) were
    numerically improved but were not tested for statistical
    significance.



Additionally, we have two ongoing phase 2 trials in locally
    advanced head and neck cancer.





AMG



AMG 785 is a humanized monoclonal antibody that targets
    sclerostin, a protein secreted by bone cells that inhibits bone
    formation. AMG 785 (also known as CDP7851) is being developed in
    collaboration with UCB for bone-related conditions, including
    PMO and fracture healing.



In 2009, we initiated phase 2 studies of AMG 785 for the
    treatment of PMO and fracture healing (tibial diaphyseal).



In 2010, we initiated a phase 2 study of AMG 785 for the
    treatment of fracture healing (hip).



AMG



AMG 827 is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds to and
    blocks signaling via the interleukin-17 receptor. It is being
    investigated as a treatment for a variety of inflammatory
    disorders.



In 2009, we initiated phase 2 studies of AMG 827 as a potential
    treatment for psoriasis and RA. In 2010, we initiated phase 2
    studies of AMG 827 as a potential treatment for Crohn’s
    disease and asthma. We received the results from the phase 2
    study in psoriasis in 2010 and plan to share these data at an
    upcoming medical meeting.



AMG



AMG 853 is an orally-administered small molecule antagonist of
    the CRTH2 and D-prostanoid receptors of prostaglandin D2. It is
    being investigated as a treatment for asthma.



Phase 1 single- and multiple-ascending dose studies have been
    completed. A global, randomized, double-blind, placebo
    controlled, multiple dose phase 2 study in subjects with
    inadequately controlled asthma was initiated in December 2009
    and is ongoing.



Conatumumab



Conatumumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody agonist that
    targets death receptor 5 and induces apoptosis in sensitive
    tumor cells. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.



We have an ongoing phase 2 study in mCRC.



Nplate®(romiplostim)



Nplate®is a peptibody agonist of the TPO receptor.



In December 2010, we announced results at a medical meeting from
    studies evaluating
    Nplate®in adult and pediatric patients with chronic immune (idiopathic)
    thrombocytopenic purpura.



Results from completed phase 2 studies in myelodysplastic
    syndromes (“MDS”) were presented in 2010. In late
    February 2011, an independent Data Monitoring Committee
    (“DMC”) recommended that we modify the study conduct
    in another ongoing phase 2 study exploring the use of
    Nplate®in MDS, expressing concern that the demonstrated benefits seen
    in treated patients might not outweigh the potential risks of
    accelerated disease progression to AML. The DMC was also
    concerned that transient blast cell increases in the
    Nplate®arm put patients at risk for diagnosis of, and treatment for,
    AML, irrespective of whether or not the disease had actually
    developed. We accepted the recommendation of the DMC and
    notified investigators that subjects in this study should
    discontinue
    Nplate®treatment and enter into the observational long-termfollow-upphase of the study.



Nplate®is also being evaluated in chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia.



Omecamtiv
    mecarbil (AMG 423)



Omecamtiv mecarbil is a small molecule activator of cardiac
    myosin. Omecamtiv mecarbil is being investigated to improve
    cardiac contractility in subjects with heart failure. We are
    developing this product in collaboration with Cytokinetics, Inc.
    (“Cytokinetics”).





Rilotumumab
    (AMG 102)



Rilotumumab (AMG 102) is a fully human monoclonal antibody
    that blocks the action of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter
    factor. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.



Results from a study in mCRC in combination with
    Vectibix®were reported at a meeting in January 2011. Phase 2 combination
    studies with rilotumumab (AMG 102) in the gastric,
    prostate, mCRC and small cell lung cancer settings continue.



Human
    Resources



As of December 31, 2010, Amgen had approximately 17,400
    staff members, which includes approximately 300 part-time
    staff members. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    continue attracting and retaining qualified personnel in
    sufficient numbers to meet our needs. None of our staff members
    are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have
    experienced no work stoppages. We consider our staff relations
    to be good.



Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and
    proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade
    secrets, we generally require our staff members, material
    consultants and scientific advisors to execute confidentiality
    agreements upon commencement of employment or a consulting
    relationship with us. However, others could either develop
    independently the same or similar information or obtain access
    to our information.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



The executive officers of the Company as of February 11,
    2011 are as follows:



Mr. Kevin W. Sharer, age 62, has served as a director
    of the Company since November 1992. Mr. Sharer has been the
    Company’s Chief Executive Officer since May 2000 and has
    also been Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2001.
    From May 2000 to May 2010, Mr. Sharer also served as the
    Company’s President. From October 1992 to May 2000,
    Mr. Sharer served as President and Chief Operating Officer
    of the Company. From April 1989 to October 1992,
    Mr. Sharer was President of the Business Markets Division
    of MCI Communications Corporation. From February 1984 to March
    1989, Mr. Sharer held numerous executive capacities at
    General Electric Company (“GE”). Mr. Sharer is a
    director of Chevron Corporation and Northrop Grumman
    Corporation. He is Chairman of the Board of the Los Angeles
    County Museum of Natural History.



Mr. David W. Beier, age 62, became Senior Vice
    President, Global Government and Corporate Affairs in March
    2008. He joined the Company in 2003 as Senior Vice President,
    Global Government Affairs. Previously, Mr. Beier was a
    partner with the law firm of Hogan and Hartson in
    Washington, D.C. From 1998 to early 2001, Mr. Beier
    served as Chief Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President of
    the United States. He also held positions as Vice President of
    Government Affairs and Public Policy for Genentech and staff
    counsel in the U.S. House of Representatives.
    Mr. Beier is a director of ARYx Therapeutics, Inc.



Dr. Fabrizio Bonanni, age 64, became Executive Vice
    President, Operations in August 2007. He has served as Senior
    Vice President, Manufacturing of the Company since 2004.
    Dr. Bonanni joined the Company in 1999 as Senior Vice
    President, Quality and Compliance, and in June 2001 he also
    became the Corporate Compliance Officer. Previously,
    Dr. Bonanni held various management positions at Baxter
    International, Inc. from 1974 to 1999, including positions as
    Corporate Vice President, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs and
    Corporate Vice President, Quality System.



Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 48, became President and
    Chief Operating Officer of Amgen in May 2010. Mr. Bradway
    joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations
    Strategy and served as Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer from April 2007 to May 2010. Prior to joining
    the Company, he was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in
    London where he had responsibility for the firm’s banking
    department and corporate finance activities in Europe.
    Mr. Bradway joined Morgan Stanley in New York as a health
    care industry investment banker in 1985 and moved to London in
    1990 where he served as head of the firm’s international
    health care investment banking activities until assuming broader
    corporate finance management responsibilities.





Mr. Brian McNamee, age 54, became Senior Vice
    President, Human Resources in June 2001. From November 1999 to
    June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human
    Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999,
    Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division
    of GE. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held
    human resource positions at GE.



Mr. Jonathan M. Peacock, age 52, became Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2010. Prior
    to joining Amgen, Mr. Peacock served as Chief Financial and
    Administration Officer of Novartis Pharmaceuticals AG beginning
    in 2005. From 1998 to 2005, Mr. Peacock was a partner at
    McKinsey and Co., where he co-led the European Corporate Finance
    Practice. Mr. Peacock was also a partner at Price
    Waterhouse in London and New York from 1993 to 1998.



Dr. Roger M. Perlmutter, age 58, became Executive Vice
    President, Research and Development in January 2001. From July
    1999 to December 2000, Dr. Perlmutter was Executive Vice
    President, Worldwide Basic Research and Preclinical Development
    of Merck Research Laboratories. From February 1999 to July 1999,
    Dr. Perlmutter served as Executive Vice President of Merck
    Research Laboratories, and from February 1997 to January 1999,
    as Senior Vice President of Merck Research Laboratories. From
    May 1989 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter was also Chairman
    of the Department of Immunology, University of Washington, and
    from January 1991 to January 1997, Professor in the Departments
    of Immunology, Biochemistry and Medicine, University of
    Washington. From July 1984 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter
    served as Investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at
    the University of Washington. Dr. Perlmutter currently
    serves on the Board of Directors of StemCells, Inc.



Ms. Anna S. Richo, age 50, became Senior Vice
    President and Chief Compliance Officer in June 2008. From
    December 2003 to June 2008, Ms. Richo served as Vice
    President, Law. Prior to Amgen, she spent 12 years at
    Baxter Healthcare Corporation in roles of increasing
    responsibility in law, including Vice President, Law, for
    Baxter’s BioScience Division. Also, for more than five
    years, Ms. Richo served on the Board of Directors of Cytyc
    Corporation and was a member of the Audit and Finance Committees.



Mr. David J. Scott, age 58, became Senior Vice
    President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2004. From May
    1999 to February 2004, Mr. Scott served as Senior Vice
    President and General Counsel of Medtronic, Inc. and also as
    Secretary from January 2000. From December 1997 to April 1999,
    Mr. Scott served as General Counsel of London-based United
    Distillers & Vintners. Mr. Scott also served in
    executive roles at Grand Metropolitan plc and RJR Nabisco, Inc.,
    and was an attorney in private practice.



Geographic
    Area Financial Information



For financial information concerning the geographic areas in
    which we operate, see Note 20, Segment
    information — Geographic information to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.



Investor
    Information



Financial and other information about us is available on our
    website(http://www.amgen.com)(This website address is not intended to function as a
    hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not
    intended to be a part of this filing). We make available on our
    website, free of charge, copies of our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after filing or submitting such material
    electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. In
    addition, we have previously filed registration statements and
    other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be
    inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference
    room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549
    or at the SEC’s internet address athttp://www.sec.gov(This website address is not intended to function as a
    hyperlink, and the information contained in the SEC’s
    website is not intended to be a part of this filing).
    Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public
    reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.





