Item 1.BUSINESS

Amgen Inc. (including its subsidiaries, referred to as “Amgen,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is committed to unlocking the potential of biology for patients suffering from serious illnesses by discovering, developing, manufacturing and delivering innovative human therapeutics. This approach begins by using tools like advanced human genetics to unravel the complexities of disease and understand the fundamentals of human biology.

Amgen focuses on areas of high unmet medical need and leverages its biologics manufacturing expertise to strive for solutions that improve health outcomes and dramatically improve people's lives. A biotechnology pioneer, Amgen has grown to be one of the world's leading independent biotechnology companies, has reached millions of patients around the world and is developing a pipeline of medicines with breakaway potential.

Amgen was incorporated in California in 1980 and became a Delaware corporation in 1987. Amgen operates in one business segment: human therapeutics.



Significant Developments

Following is a summary of significant developments that occurred in2014and early2015affecting our business.

Products/Pipeline

Cardiovascular

Repatha™(evolocumab)*

•In August 2014, we announced that the phase 3 YUKAWA-2 (StudY of LDL-Cholesterol Reduction Using a Monoclonal PCSK9 Antibody in Japanese Patients With Advanced Cardiovascular Risk) study evaluating evolocumab in combination with statin therapy in Japanese patients with high cardiovascular risk and high cholesterol met its co-primary endpoints.

•In September 2014, we announced that we submitted a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for the treatment of high cholesterol.

•In November 2014, we announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) accepted for review our Biologics License Application (BLA) for evolocumab for the treatment of high cholesterol.

Corlanor®(ivabradine)*

•In August 2014, we announced that the FDA granted priority review designation for the treatment of chronic heart failure.

•In January 2015, we announced a three-month extension of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) target action date due to a request from the FDA for submission of additional existing clinical data, which has been submitted.

Inflammation

Brodalumab

•In April 2014, we announced the initiation of two phase 3 studies in patients with psoriatic arthritis.

•In 2014, we and AstraZeneca Plc. (AstraZeneca) announced that all three phase 3 AMAGINE™trials evaluating brodalumab in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis met all their primary endpoints.

Nephrology

AMG 416

•In July 2014, we announced that a phase 3 study evaluating AMG 416 for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) receiving hemodialysis, met its primary and all secondary endpoints.

•In August 2014, we announced that a second placebo-controlled phase 3 study evaluating AMG 416 for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD, receiving hemodialysis, met its primary and all secondary endpoints.

* FDA provisionally approved trade name










Oncology

BLINCYTO™(blinatumomab)

•In October 2014, we announced that we submitted an MAA to the EMA for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia-negative relapsed/refractory B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), a rapidly progressing cancer of the blood and bone marrow.

•In December 2014, we announced that the FDA has granted approval of BLINCYTO™for the treatment of patients with Philadelphia chromosome-negative (Ph-) relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor ALL. This indication is approved under accelerated approval and continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification of clinical benefit in subsequent trials. Commercial sales launched in December 2014.

Kyprolis®(carfilzomib) for Injection

•In August 2014, we and our subsidiary Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Onyx) announced that a planned interim analysis demonstrated that the phase 3 clinical trial ASPIRE (CArfilzomib, Lenalidomide, and DexamethaSone versus Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone for the treatment of PatIents with Relapsed Multiple MyEloma) met its primary endpoint of progression-free survival (PFS). While the data for overall survival, a secondary endpoint, are not yet mature, the analysis showed a trend in favor ofKyprolis®in combination with REVLIMID®(lenalidomide) and low-dose dexamethasonethat did not reach statistical significance.

•In August 2014, we and Onyx announced that the phase 3 clinical trial FOCUS (CarFilzOmib for AdvanCed Refractory MUltiple Myeloma European Study) did not meet its primary endpoint of improving overall survival.

•In January 2015, we and Onyx announced the submission of a supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) to the FDA and an MAA to the EMA for Kyprolis®to seek approval for the treatment of patients with relapsed multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy. In the United States, the sNDA is designed to support the conversion of accelerated approval to full approval and expand the current approved indication. In the European Union (EU), Kyprolis®received orphan drug designation and the MAA has been granted accelerated assessment.

Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)

•In December 2014, the FDA granted approval of the Neulasta®Delivery Kit, including the On-body Injector for Neulasta®.

Rilotumumab

•In November 2014, we announced the termination of all Amgen-sponsored clinical studies of rilotumumab in advanced gastric cancer, including the phase 3 RILOMET-1 and RILOMET-2 studies.

Talimogene laherparepvec

•In July 2014, we announced that we submitted a BLA in the United States for regionally and distantly metastatic melanoma.

•In September 2014, we announced that we submitted an MAA to the EMA for the treatment of adults with regionally and distantly metastatic melanoma.

•In January 2015, we announced a three-month extension of the PDUFA target action date for our BLA due to a request from the FDA for submission of additional existing manufacturing data, which has been submitted.

Trebananib

•In November 2014, we announced the top-line secondary endpoint results of overall survival from the phase 3 TRINOVA-1 trial in women with recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. The study, which evaluated trebananib plus paclitaxel versus placebo plus paclitaxel, did not demonstrate a statistically significant improvement in overall survival. We have terminated the clinical development program in recurrent ovarian cancer.

Biosimilars

•In October 2014, we announced that the phase 3 study evaluating efficacy and safety of biosimilar candidate ABP 501 compared with Humira®(adalimumab) in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis met its primary endpoint.

•In February 2015, we announced that the phase 3 study evaluating efficacy and safety of biosimilar candidate ABP 501 compared with Humira®in patients with moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA) met its primary and key secondary endpoints.










Next-Generation Biomanufacturing

•In 2014, we completed facilities construction and entered the licensure process for a Next-Generation Biomanufacturing facility in Singapore. We believe, when licensed, this facility will enable us to increase our manufacturing productivity versus conventional alternatives at lower capital costs and operating expense.

Reallocating Resources to Drive Growth

•During the second half of 2014, we announced a restructuring plan which will reduce staff by between 3,500 and 4,000 positions by the end of 2015. In addition, we will close our facilities in the states of Washington and Colorado, and will reduce the number of buildings at our headquarters in Thousand Oaks, California. The total pre-tax restructuring charges are expected to range between approximately $935 million and $1,035 million. As of December 31, 2014, $558 million of these charges have been incurred.












Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products

Our sales and marketing forces are mainly located in the United States and Europe. Additionally, we continue to expand the commercialization and marketing of our products into new geographic markets, including Latin America and parts of the Middle East. This is achieved either through the establishment of our own sales and marketing force, acquisition of existing third-party operations or product licenses, or in partnership with third parties. See Business Relationships. Together with our partners, we market our products to healthcare providers, including physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies.

In the United States, we sell primarily to pharmaceutical wholesale distributors. We utilize those wholesale distributors as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers. We also market certain products directly to consumers through direct-to-consumer print and television advertising, as well as through the Internet. For further discussion, see Government Regulation—Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. Outside the United States, we sell principally to healthcare providers and/or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors depending on the distribution practice in each country.

Our product sales to three large wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012. On a combined basis, these wholesalers accounted for approximately94%, 93% and 94% of our U.S. gross product sales, respectively, and approximately77%, 75% and 76% of our worldwide gross revenues, respectively. We monitor the financial condition of our larger customers, and we limit our credit exposure by setting credit limits and, for certain circumstances, requiring letters of credit.

For financial information related to our one business segment, see Part IV—Consolidated Statements of Income, Consolidated Balance Sheets and Note 19, Segment information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We market our principal products primarily in the United States in oncology, inflammation, nephrology and bone health. The following chart shows our product sales by principal product and by geography for the years endedDecember 31, 2014,2013and2012.














Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)/NEUPOGEN®(filgrastim)

We market Neulasta®, a pegylated protein based on the filgrastim molecule, primarily in the United States and Europe. Neulasta®was launched in 2002 and is indicated to decrease the incidence of infection associated with chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia in cancer patients with non-myeloid malignancies. In December 2014, the FDA granted approval of the Neulasta®Delivery Kit, including the On-body Injector for Neulasta®. We market NEUPOGEN®, a recombinant-methionyl human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), primarily in the United States, Canada and Europe. NEUPOGEN®was launched in 1991 and is used primarily in the indication for reducing the incidence of infection as manifested by febrile neutropenia for patients with non-myeloid malignancies undergoing myelosuppressive chemotherapy associated with a significant incidence of severe neutropenia with fever.

Enbrel®(etanercept)

We market ENBREL primarily in the United States. It was launched in 1998 and is used primarily in the indications for the treatment of adult patients with the following conditions:

•moderately to severely active RA,

•chronic moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis patients who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy, and

•active psoriatic arthritis.

The rights to market and sell ENBREL outside the United States and Canada are reserved to Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer).

XGEVA®/Prolia®(denosumab)

We market XGEVA®and Prolia®primarily in the United States and Europe. Both products contain the same active ingredient but are approved for different indications, patient populations, doses and frequencies of administration.

XGEVA®was launched in the United States in 2010 and is used primarily in the indication for the prevention of skeletal-related events (SREs) (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors. It is not indicated for the prevention of SREs in patients with multiple myeloma. XGEVA®was launched in Europe in 2011 and is used primarily in the indication for the prevention of SREs in adults with bone metastases from solid tumors.

Prolia®was launched in the United States and Europe in 2010. In the United States, it is used primarily in the indication for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture, defined as a history of osteoporotic fracture, or multiple risk factors for fracture, or patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. In Europe, Prolia®is used primarily for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fractures.

ESAs (erythropoiesis-stimulating agents)

EPOGEN®(epoetin alfa)

We market EPOGEN®in the United States for dialysis patients. It was launched in 1989, and we market it for the indication to treat a lower-than-normal number of red blood cells (anemia) caused by CKD in patients on dialysis to lessen the need for red blood cell transfusions. The majority of our sales are to two large dialysis providers.

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)

We market Aranesp®primarily in Europe and in the United States. It was launched in 2001 and is indicated for the treatment of anemia associated with CKD (in both patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis) and the treatment of anemia due to concomitant myelosuppressive chemotherapy in patients with non-myeloid malignancies.

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)

We market cinacalcet as Sensipar®primarily in the United States and as Mimpara®primarily in Europe. It was launched in 2004 and is used primarily in the indication for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD patients on dialysis.

Other Marketed Products

We market several other products including Kyprolis®(marketed by Onyx, an Amgen subsidiary), Nplate®(romiplostim), Vectibix®(panitumumab) and BLINCYTO™.












Patents

The following table describes our outstanding material patents for the indicated product by territory, general subject matter and latest expiry date. One or more patents with the same or earlier expiry date may fall under the same “general subject matter” and are not separately listed.





ProductTerritoryGeneral Subject MatterExpiration

Neulasta®(pegfilgrastim)U.S.Pegylated G-CSF10/20/2015

EuropePegylated G-CSF(1)2/8/2015

Enbrel®(etanercept)U.S.Methods of treating psoriasis8/13/2019

U.S.Aqueous formulation and methods of treatment using the formulation(2)6/8/2023

U.S.Fusion protein, and pharmaceutical compositions11/22/2028

U.S.DNA encoding fusion protein, and methods of making fusion protein4/24/2029

Prolia®/XGEVA®(denosumab)U.S.RANKL antibodies; and methods of use(3)12/22/2017

U.S.Methods of treatment6/25/2022

U.S.Nucleic acids encoding RANKL antibodies, and methods of producing RANKL antibodies11/30/2023

U.S.RANKL antibodies including sequences2/19/2025

EuropeRANKL antibodies(1)12/22/2017

EuropeMedical use of RANKL antibodies(1)4/15/2018

EuropeRANKL antibodies including epitope binding2/23/2021

EuropeRANKL antibodies including sequences(1)6/25/2022

EPOGEN®(epoetin alfa)U.S.Cells that make certain levels of erythropoietin5/26/2015

Aranesp®(darbepoetin alfa)U.S.Glycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins5/15/2024

EuropeGlycosylation analogs of erythropoietin proteins(1)8/16/2014

Sensipar®/Mimpara®(cinacalcet)U.S.Calcium receptor-active molecules including species10/23/2015

U.S.Methods of treatment12/14/2016

U.S.Calcium receptor-active molecules3/8/2018

EuropeCalcium receptor-active molecules(1)10/23/2015

Vectibix®(panitumumab)U.S.Human monoclonal antibodies to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFr)4/8/2020

EuropeHuman monoclonal antibodies to EGFr(1)5/5/2018

Nplate®(romiplostim)U.S.Thrombopoietic compounds1/19/2022

EuropeThrombopoietic compounds(1)10/22/2019

Kyprolis®(carfilzomib)U.S.Compositions, and methods of treatment(4)4/14/2025

EuropeCompositions8/8/2025

BLINCYTO™(blinatumomab)U.S.Bifunctional polypeptides(4)4/21/2019

U.S.Method of administration9/28/2027

EuropeBifunctional polypeptides4/21/2019

EuropeMethod of administration11/29/2026

(1)A European patent with this subject matter may also be entitled to supplemental protection in one or more countries in Europe and the length of any such extension will vary by country. For example, supplementary protection certificates have been issued related to the indicated products for patents in at least the following countries:

•pegfilgrastim -  France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2017

•darbepoetin alfa - France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2016

•denosumab - France, Italy and Spain, expiring in2025

•cinacalcet - France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2019

•panitumumab - France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2022

•romiplostim - France, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom, expiring in 2024












(2)This formulation patent relates to the currently approved liquid formulation of ENBREL, which formulation accounts for the majority of ENBREL sales in the United States. However, ENBREL is also sold as an alternative lyophilized formulation that requires reconstituting before it can be administered to the patient.

(3)The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued a Notice of Final Determination that a patent with this subject matter is eligible for patent term extension with an expiry of September 17, 2021.

(4)A patent with this subject matter may be entitled to patent term extension in the United States.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. Our competitors market products or are actively engaged in R&D in areas where we have products, where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. Our competitive positions may be based on, among other things, safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, patient convenience/delivery devices, price, reimbursement, timing of market entry and patent position and expiration.

Certain of the existing patents on our principal products have recently expired or will expire this year or over the next few years, and we expect to face increasing competition thereafter, including from biosimilars. A biosimilar is another version of a biological product for which marketing approval is sought or has been obtained based on a demonstration that it is “biosimilar” to the original reference product. See Government Regulation. We may also compete against biosimilar or generic versions of our competitors’ products. In the EU, we continue to face competition from biosimilars. In the United States after patent expiration, we expect to face greater competition than today, including from manufacturers with biosimilars approved in Europe, which may seek to obtain U.S. approval.

Some of our products compete with each other. For example, Aranesp®and EPOGEN®compete in the United States, primarily in the dialysis setting. Neulasta®competes with NEUPOGEN®,as Neulasta®is administered as a single dose per chemotherapy cycle while NEUPOGEN®requires more frequent dosing. NEUPOGEN®sales have been adversely impacted by conversion to Neulasta®, which we believe is substantially complete.

The introduction of new products, the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or the emergence of new information about existing products may result in increased competition for our marketed products, even for those protected by patents, or in a reduction of the price that we receive from selling our products. In addition, the development of new treatment options or standards of care may reduce the use of our products or may limit the utility and application of ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates. For further discussion, see Item 1A. Risk Factors—We expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars and Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our products face substantial competition.

The following table reflects our significant competitors and is not exhaustive.

ProductTerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorsNeulasta®/NEUPOGEN®U.S.Granix®(1)Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (Teva)EuropeLonquex®(2)TevaEuropeFilgrastim biosimilars(3)VariousENBRELU.S. & CanadaREMICADE®Janssen Biotech, Inc. (Janssen)(8)/Merck & Company, Inc.U.S. & CanadaHUMIRA®AbbVie Inc.U.S. & CanadaSTELARA®(4)Janssen(8)XGEVA®U.S. & EuropeZometa®Novartis AG (Novartis)U.S. & EuropeZoledronate genericsVariousProlia®U.S. & EuropeAlendronate genericsVariousU.S. & EuropeRaloxifene genericsVariousU.S. & EuropeZoledronate genericsVariousEPOGEN®U.S.MIRCERA®(5)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (Roche)Aranesp®U.S.PROCRIT®(6)Janssen(8)EuropeEPREX®/ERYPO®Janssen-Cilag(8)EuropeEpoetin alfa biosimilars(3)VariousEuropeMIRCERA®(5)Roche












ProductTerritoryCompetitor Marketed ProductCompetitorsSensipar®(7)/Mimpara®U.S. & EuropeActive Vitamin D analogsVariousVectibix®U.S. & EuropeErbitux®Eli Lilly/Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS); Merck KGaAU.S. & EuropeAvastin®Genentech, Inc. (a Member of the Roche Group)Nplate®U.S. & EuropePromacta®/Revolade®GlaxoSmithKline plcKyprolis®U.S.VELCADE®Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.(9)U.S.REVLIMID®Celgene CorporationU.S.POMALYST®Celgene Corporation

(1)Granix®launched at the end of 2013 and could have an impact over time on sales of NEUPOGEN®and, to a lesser extent, Neulasta®.

(2)Lonquex®is a long-acting filgrastim product launched in Europe.

(3)Approved via the EU biosimilar regulatory pathway.

(4)Dermatology only.

(5)MIRCERA®has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal failure in patients on and not on dialysis. Roche began selling MIRCERA®in October 2014 in the United States under terms of a limited patent license obtained from Amgen in connection with the settlement of patent litigation. It competes with Aranesp®in the nephrology segment only.

(6)PROCRIT®competes with Aranesp®in the supportive cancer care and pre-dialysis settings.

(7)Teva and Barr Pharmaceuticals have received tentative approval from the FDA for generic versions of Sensipar®that could compete with Sensipar®in the future. There is an injunction prohibiting them from commercializing in the United States until expiration of the patents.

(8)A subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson (J&J).

(9)A wholly-owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited.

Future Biosimilar Competition

Neulasta®/NEUPOGEN®

Apotex, Inc. announced that the FDA accepted for filing their applications, under the abbreviated pathway, for pegfilgrastim, a biosimilar version of Neulasta®, on December 17, 2014, and for filgrastim, a biosimilar version of NEUPOGEN®, on February 17, 2015. On January 7, 2015, Sandoz, a Novartis company, announced that the FDA Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee (ODAC) recommended approval of its investigational biosimilar filgrastim, to be known in the United States as ZARXIO™. The Committee also recommended approval of the biosimilar for use in all indications included in the reference product’s (NEUPOGEN®) label. If approved, we anticipate NEUPOGEN®may begin to face competition from the launch of ZARXIO™in the United States. The Sandoz biosimilar filgrastim is the subject of ongoing litigation between us and Sandoz. See Part IV—Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

EPOGEN®

On December 16, 2014, Hospira, Inc. submitted a BLA to the FDA for Retacrit™, a proposed biosimilar to EPOGEN®, under the abbreviated pathway.



Reimbursement

Sales of our principal products are dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. In the United States, healthcare providers are reimbursed for covered services and products they use through Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs as well as through private payers. We are required to provide specified rebates or discounts to certain of these government funded programs. For many years, federal and state governments in the United States have pursued methods to reduce the cost of these programs. For example, in 2010 the United States enacted major healthcare reform legislation (known as the “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act” or “ACA”) that had significant impacts which include: a requirement to offer discounts for Medicare Part D drugs in the coverage gap, an increase in the rebates we pay for our










products that are covered and reimbursed by state Medicaid programs, a requirement to pay rebates on Medicaid managed care utilization, the expansion of entities eligible for discounts under the 340B Drug Pricing Program, and a new fee (the U.S. healthcare reform federal excise fee on Branded Prescription Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Importers (BPD fee)). Such changes have had, and are expected to continue to have, a material adverse impact on our business. At present, Medicare payment rates are affected by across-the-board federal budget cuts commonly referred to as “sequestration”. Under sequestration, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), the federal agency responsible for administering Medicare and Medicaid, reduced Medicare payments to providers by 2% beginning in 2013. In addition, in the effort to contain the U.S. federal deficit, our industry could be considered a potential source of savings via legislative proposals that have been debated but not enacted. It remains uncertain as to what proposals, if any, may be included as part of future federal budget deficit reduction actions that would directly or indirectly affect us and our business.

Particular legislative and regulatory developments that would have a significant impact on Amgen include: changes to how the Medicare program covers and reimburses current and future drugs for patients with End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) (including Sensipar®), changes in the payment rate or new rebate requirements for covered drugs (which could impact many of our principal products, including Aranesp®, Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®, Prolia®and XGEVA®) and policies for payment and coverage of biosimilars.

Efforts are also being made in the private sector to reduce healthcare costs, notably by healthcare payers and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. We expect insurers and providers to continue efforts to reduce the cost and/or utilization of healthcare products, including our products. These measures include consolidation of insurers in the United States and the emergence of large integrated (insurer-provider) delivery networks to consolidate purchasing and negotiating power.

Generally, in countries outside the United States, government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for drugs and biologics. With increased budgetary constraints, payers in many countries employ a variety of measures to exert downward price pressure. These measures can include mandatory price controls, price referencing, therapeutic reference pricing, increasing mandates or incentives for generic substitution and biosimilar usage, and government-mandated price cuts. In addition, healthcare reform and related legislative proposals in such countries as France, Germany and Poland, as well as austerity plans in a number of countries, including Spain, Greece, Italy, Ireland and Portugal, have targeted the pharmaceutical sector with multiple mechanisms to reduce government healthcare expenditures. We expect that countries will continue to take aggressive actions to reduce expenditures on drugs and biologics. Similarly, fiscal constraints may also impact the extent to which countries are willing to approve new innovative therapies and/or allow access to new technologies. For example, many Health Technology Assessment (HTA) organizations use formal economic metrics such as cost-effectiveness to determine coverage and reimbursement of new therapies, and these organizations are proliferating in established and emerging markets.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers.



Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials

Manufacturing

The products we manufacture include both biologics and small molecule drugs. The majority of our products are biologics which are produced in living cells and are inherently complex due to naturally-occurring molecular variations. Highly specialized knowledge and extensive process and product characterization are required to transform laboratory-scale processes into reproducible commercial manufacturing processes. For additional information regarding manufacturing facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

We perform most of our bulk manufacturing, formulation, fill and finish activities in our Puerto Rico facility and also conduct finish activities in the Netherlands. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers:

•to manufacture Sensipar®/Mimpara®, except for certain fill and finish activities performed by us in Puerto Rico;

•to supplement commercial bulk manufacturing, as needed, for ENBREL, Prolia®, XGEVA®and Vectibix®;

•to supplement certain portions of fill and finish for ENBREL; and

•to supplement formulation, fill and finish of Nplate®.

In addition, we utilize single-source third-party contract manufacturers for Kyprolis®.

Clinical bulk, formulation, fill and finish manufacturing facilities are operated primarily in our Thousand Oaks, California, and West Greenwich, Rhode Island locations. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers for certain clinical products.










See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and the global supply of our products.

Distribution

We operate distribution centers in the United States—principally in Kentucky and California—and the Netherlands for worldwide distribution of the majority of our commercial and clinical products. We also use third-party distributors to supplement distribution of our products worldwide.

Other

In addition to the manufacturing and distribution activities noted above, our operations in the United States, Puerto Rico and the Netherlands include key manufacturing support functions, including quality control, process development, procurement, production scheduling and warehousing. Certain of those manufacturing and distribution activities are highly regulated by the FDA as well as other international regulatory agencies. See Government Regulation—Regulation of Manufacturing Standards.

Manufacturing Initiatives

We have multiple ongoing initiatives that are designed to optimize our manufacturing network and/or mitigate manufacturing risks while continuing to ensure adequate supply of our products. These initiatives include the licensure of a new formulation and fill facility at our Puerto Rico site; and as part of a risk mitigation strategy, full licensure of our formulation, fill and finish site in Ireland to manufacture our products. Both of these new facilities will require qualification and licensure by various regulatory authorities.

In 2014, we completed construction of the planned monoclonal antibody manufacturing facility in Singapore. Upon licensure, this facility will expand our capability to manufacture monoclonal antibodies utilizing new technology and innovation. The facility will be fully reconfigurable, providing efficient manufacturing capabilities to help ensure supply of our products worldwide. We also announced plans to build an additional new facility at the site in Singapore to enable the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient for Kyprolis®.

In addition to these initiatives, we have projects designed to optimize manufacturing asset utilization, to continue our use of third-party contract manufacturers and to maintain a state of regulatory compliance. This includes manufacturing network consolidation initiatives as well as process improvements surrounding manufacturing. See Item 1A. Risk Factors—Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.

Raw Materials and Medical Devices

Certain raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the commercial and/or clinical manufacturing of our products are provided by and are the proprietary products of unaffiliated third-party suppliers, certain of which may be our only sources for such materials. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such suppliers by inventory management, relationship management and evaluation of alternative sources when feasible. We also monitor the financial condition of certain suppliers and their ability to supply our needs. See Item 1A. Risk Factors—We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components.

We perform various procedures to assist in authenticating the source of raw materials, including intermediary materials used in the manufacture of our products, which include verification of the country of origin. These procedures are incorporated into the manufacturing processes we and our third-party contract manufacturers perform.



Government Regulation

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development (R&D) activities. In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for therapeutic use, we must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies.

Regulation in the United States

In the United States, the Public Health Service Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the production, research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion, reporting of certain payments and other transfers of value, and distribution of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative and/or judicially imposed sanctions. The sanctions could include the FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawals of approvals, delay or suspension of clinical trials, warning










letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution.

Clinical Development and Product Approval.Drug development in our industry is complex, challenging and risky; and failure rates are high. Product development cycles are very long - approximately 10 to 15 years from discovery to market. A potential new medicine must undergo many years of preclinical and clinical testing to establish its safety and efficacy for use in humans at appropriate dosing levels and with an acceptable benefit-risk profile.

After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, we file an Investigational New Drug Application (IND) with the FDA to begin human testing. Typically, we undertake an FDA-designated three-phase human clinical testing program.

•In phase 1, we conduct small clinical trials to investigate the safety and proper dose ranges of our product candidates in a small number of human subjects.

•In phase 2, we conduct clinical trials to investigate side effect profiles and the efficacy of our product candidates in a larger number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

•In phase 3, we conduct clinical trials to investigate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.

The FDA monitors the progress of each trial conducted under an IND and may, at its discretion, re-evaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based on the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s risk/benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in the trial. The results of preclinical and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for biologic products or a New Drug Application for small molecule products. We cannot market or promote a new product until our marketing application has been approved by the FDA.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our development of commercial products.

Approval of Biosimilars

.



®

, Neulasta

®

and EPOGEN

®

products, respectively. As of the end of 2014, no biosimilar applications had been approved by the FDA. In January 2015, Sandoz, a Novartis company, announced that the FDA ODAC recommended approval of its investigational biosimilar filgrastim for use in all indications included in the reference product’s (NEUPOGEN

®

) label.

Regulation of Product Marketing and Promotion. The FDA regulates the marketing and promotion of products. Our product promotion for approved product indications must comply with the statutory standards of the FDCA, and the FDA’s implementing regulations and standards. The FDA’s review of marketing and promotional activities encompasses, but is not limited to, direct-to-consumer advertising, healthcare provider-directed advertising and promotion, sales representative communications to healthcare professionals, promotional programming and promotional activities involving the Internet. The FDA may also review industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities that make representations regarding product safety or efficacy in a promotional context. The FDA may take enforcement action against a company for promoting unapproved uses of a product or for other violations of its advertising and labeling laws and regulations. Enforcement action may include product seizures, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties or regulatory letters, which may require corrective advertising or other corrective communications to healthcare professionals. Failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations also can result in adverse publicity or increased scrutiny of company activities by the U.S. Congress or other legislators. Additionally, as described below, such failure may lead to additional liability under U.S. health care fraud and abuse laws.

Regulation of Manufacturing Standards. The FDA regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of products prior to providing approval to market products. If after receiving approval from the FDA, we make a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and product-specific regulations enforced by










the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA conducts regular, periodic visits to re-inspect our equipment, facilities, laboratories and processes following an initial approval. If the FDA determines that we no longer comply with applicable regulations and conditions of approval, they may seek civil, criminal or administrative sanctions and/or remedies against us, including suspension of our manufacturing operations. Such issues may also delay the approval of new products undergoing FDA review.

Regulation of Combination Products. Combination products are defined by the FDA to include products comprised of two or more regulated components (e.g., a biologic and/or drug and a device). Biologics/Drugs and devices each have their own regulatory requirements, and combination products may have additional requirements. A number of our marketed products meet this definition and are regulated under this framework, and we expect that a number of our pipeline product candidates will be evaluated for regulatory approval under this framework as well.

Regulation Outside the United States

In the EU, biosimilars have been approved under a specialized pathway of the centralized procedure. The pathway allows sponsors of a biosimilar to seek and obtain regulatory approval based in part on the non-clinical and clinical trial data of an originator product to which the biosimilar has been demonstrated to be “similar.” The relevance of demonstrating similarity is that it allows biosimilars to be brought to market without conducting the full suite of clinical trials typically required of originator products, as benefit-risk has previously been established.

Emerging Markets

Other countries such as Russia, Turkey and those in Latin America and the Middle East have review processes and data requirements similar to those of the EU, and in some cases rely on prior marketing approval from United States or EU regulatory authorities. The regulatory process in these countries includes manufacturing/testing facility inspections, testing of drug product upon importation and other domestic requirements.

In Asia, a number of countries such as China, South Korea, and Taiwan may require local clinical trials as part of the drug registration process in addition to the global clinical trials which can add to the drug registration timelines. In most Asian markets, registration timelines are dependent on marketing approval in the United States or EU. However, in some emerging markets in Asia, such as China, the regulatory landscape is evolving and the regulatory timelines can be less predictable.

Post-approval Phase

After approval, we continue to monitor adverse events reported following the use of our products through post marketing routine pharmacovigilance surveillance and studies when applicable. We report such events to the appropriate regulatory agencies, as required per local regulations for individual cases and aggregate reports. We proactively monitor (according to good pharmacovigilance practices) and ensure the implementation of signal detection, assessment and communication of adverse events that may be associated with the use of our products. We may also be required by regulatory agencies to conduct further clinical trials on our marketed products as a condition of their approval or to provide additional information on safety and efficacy. Failure to implement these pharmacovigilance activities, including the conduct of post approval commitments for trials in a timely manner, may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties. Failure to comply with these requirements may also have an adverse effect on our pricing and reimbursement. Health authorities, including the FDA, have authority to mandate labeling changes to products at any point in a product’s lifecycle based on new safety information or as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products.

Health authorities, including the FDA, also have the authority, before or after approval, to require companies to implement a risk management program for a product to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. Each risk management program is unique and varies depending on the specific factors required. In the United States, a risk management program is known as a










risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS; failure to comply with a REMS may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and can result in additional limitations being placed on a product’s use or withdrawal of the product from the market. We currently have REMS for our ESAs, Prolia®, Nplate®and BLINCYTO™. Similarly, in the EU, failure to meet risk management commitments may result in substantial financial penalties, reputational loss, or license withdrawal and in serious cases may result in criminal prosecution.

Other Regulation

We are also subject to various laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal program. False claims laws prohibit knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Liability under the false claims laws may also arise when a violation of certain laws or regulations related to the underlying products (for example, violations regarding improper promotional activity or unlawful payments) contributes to the submission of a false claim.

On December 19, 2012, Amgen announced that it had finalized a settlement agreement with the U.S. government and various other parties regarding allegations that Amgen's promotional, contracting, sales and marketing activities and arrangements caused the submission of various false claims under the Federal Civil False Claims Act and various State False Claims Acts. In connection with entering into the settlement agreement, Amgen also entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that requires Amgen to maintain its corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that in the future our practices might be further challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws.

We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other current and potential future federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations. Our R&D activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials and various radioactive compounds. We believe our procedures comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state or local laws, rules and/or regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental contamination cannot be completely eliminated. While we are not required to do so, we strive to conduct our research and manufacturing activities in a manner that meets the intents and purposes of the National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research.

Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations.

Our business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and/or regulations.












Research and Development and Selected Product Candidates

We focus our R&D on novel human therapeutics for the treatment of grievous illness in the areas of oncology, hematology, inflammation, bone health, nephrology, cardiovascular and general medicine, which includes neuroscience. We take a modality-independent approach to R&D with a focus on biologics. Our discovery research programs may therefore yield targets that lead to the development of human therapeutics delivered as large molecules, small molecules, or other combination or new modalities. For the years ended December 31,2014,2013and2012, our R&D expenses were$4.3 billion,$4.1 billionand$3.4 billion, respectively.

We have major R&D centers in several locations throughout the United States and in the United Kingdom, as well as smaller research centers and development facilities globally. See Item 2. Properties.

We conduct clinical trial activities using both our internal staff and third-party contract clinical trial service providers. To increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we have opened clinical sites and will continue to open clinical sites and to enroll patients in a number of geographic locations. See Government Regulation—Clinical Development and Product Approval for a discussion of government regulation over clinical development. Also see Item 1A. Risk Factors—We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications.

Some of our competitors are actively engaged in R&D in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. For example, we compete with other clinical trials for eligible patients, which may limit the number of available patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. The competitive marketplace for our product candidates is significantly dependent on the timing of entry into the market. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance, thereby contributing to the product’s eventual success and profitability. Accordingly, we expect that in some cases, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing, receive regulatory approval and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market will be important to our competitive position.

In addition to product candidates and marketed products generated from our internal R&D efforts, we acquire companies, acquire and license certain product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D arrangements with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. In pursuing these R&D arrangements and licensing or acquisition activities, we face competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to license or acquire technologies, product candidates or marketed products from those entities performing the R&D.

The following table is a selection of certain of our product candidates by phase of development in our therapeutic areas of focus as of February 12, 2015, unless otherwise indicated. Additional product candidate information can be found on our website at www.amgen.com. The website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing. The information in this section does not include other, non-registrational clinical trials that we may conduct for purposes other than for submission to regulatory agencies for their approval of a new product indication. We may conduct non-registrational clinical trials for various reasons including to evaluate real-world outcomes or to collect additional safety information with the use of our products. In addition, the table does not include the biosimilar products we are developing, which are discussed later in this section.












MoleculeDisease/ConditionPhase 3 ProgramsAMG 416Secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD receiving dialysisAranesp®Myelodysplastic syndromesBLINCYTO™ALLBrodalumabPsoriasis;Psoriatic arthritisEvolocumabDyslipidemiaKyprolis®*Multiple myelomaProlia®Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosisRomosozumabPostmenopausal osteoporosisMale osteoporosisTalimogene laherparepvecMetastatic melanomaTrebananibFirst-line ovarian cancerVectibix®Metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) (US only)XGEVA®Delay or prevention of bone metastases in breast cancer;Cancer-related bone damage in patients with multiple myelomaPhase 2 ProgramsAMG 139Inflammatory diseasesAMG 157AsthmaAMG 181Inflammatory bowel diseasesAMG 334MigraineAMG 337Gastric cancerBLINCYTO™Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)BrodalumabInflammatory diseasesKyprolis®*Small-cell lung cancerOmecamtiv mecarbilHeart failureOprozomib*Hematologic malignanciesXGEVA®Metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)Phase 1 ProgramsAMG 172Renal cell carcinomaAMG 208Various cancer typesAMG 211Various cancer typesAMG 232Various cancer typesAMG 282AsthmaAMG 319Hematologic malignanciesAMG 357Autoimmune diseasesAMG 557Systemic lupus erythematosusAMG 581SchizophreniaAMG 595GlioblastomaAMG 780Various cancer typesAMG 811Systemic lupus erythematosusAMG 820Various cancer typesAMG 876Type 2 diabetesAMG 900Various cancer typesOprozomib*Solid tumors

*Being developed by Onyx, an Amgen subsidiary.


















Phase 3clinical trials investigate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.Phase 2clinical trials investigate side effect profiles and efficacy of a product candidate in a large number of patients who have the disease or condition under study.Phase 1clinical trials investigate safety and proper dose ranges of a product candidate in a small number of human subjects.



Phase 3 Product Candidate Program Changes

As of February 17, 2014, we had 16 phase 3 programs. As of February 12, 2015, we had 15 phase 3 programs, as two programs advanced into phase 3 trials, one program was approved, and two programs were terminated or concluded. These changes are set forth in the following table:

MoleculeDisease / ConditionProgram ChangeBrodalumabPsoriatic arthritisAdvanced to phase 3Prolia®Male osteoporosis (EU only)Approved by EMARilotumumabGastric cancerTerminatedRomosozumabMale osteoporosisAdvanced to phase 3Sensipar®/ Mimpara®Post renal transplantConcluded - No longer pursuing indication

Phase 3 Product Candidate Patent Information

The following table describes our outstanding composition of matter patents that have issued thus far for our product candidates in phase 3 development that have yet to be approved for any indication. Patents for products already approved for one or more indications but currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials for additional indications are previously described. See Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Patents.

MoleculeTerritoryGeneral Subject MatterEstimated Expiration*BrodalumabU.S.Polynucleotides and polypeptides2027EuropePolynucleotides and polypeptides2027EvolocumabU.S.Polypeptides2029RomosozumabU.S.Polypeptides2026EuropePolypeptides2026Talimogene laherparepvecU.S.Modified HSV-1 compounds and strains2021EuropeModified HSV-1 compounds and strains2021TrebananibU.S.Polynucleotides and polypeptides2025EuropePolynucleotides and polypeptides2022AMG 416U.S.Compound2030

*Patent expiration estimates are based on issued patents, which may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors. The patent expiration estimates do not include any term adjustments, extensions or supplemental protection certificates that may be obtained in the future and extend these dates. Corresponding patent applications are pending in other jurisdictions. Additional patents may be filed or issued and may provide additional exclusivity for the product candidate or its use.

Phase 3 and 2 Program Descriptions

The following text provides additional information about selected product candidates that have advanced into human clinical trials.

AMG 416

AMG 416 is a peptide agonist of the human cell surface CaSR.

In July and August 2014, we announced results from two phase 3 studies evaluating AMG 416 for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with CKD, receiving hemodialysis. Both studies met their primary and all secondary endpoints.














Aranesp®

Aranesp®is a recombinant human protein agonist of the erythropoietin receptor.

The phase 3 study of Aranesp®for the treatment of low risk myelodysplastic syndromes is ongoing.

BLINCYTO™

BLINCYTO™is an anti-CD19 x anti-CD3 (BiTE®) bispecific antibody.

In December 2014, we received FDA accelerated approval of BLINCYTO™for the treatment of patients with Ph- relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor ALL.

A phase 3 study in adult patients with relapsed/refractory ALL is ongoing. Phase 2 studies in adult patients with relapsed/refractory Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) and minimal residual disease of ALL are ongoing. A phase 2 study in adult patients with DLBCL is ongoing.

Brodalumab

Brodalumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the interleukin-17 receptor. It is being investigated as a treatment for a variety of inflammatory diseases. Brodalumab is being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca.

In 2014, we and AstraZeneca announced results from three phase 3 studies evaluating brodalumab in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis met their primary endpoints.

Two phase 3 studies evaluating brodalumab for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis initiated enrollment in 2014. A phase 2 study evaluating brodalumab for the treatment of asthma is ongoing.

Denosumab

Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits RANKL.

Prolia®

In June 2014, we received EMA approval for Prolia®for the treatment of osteoporosis in men at increased risk of fracture.

A phase 3 study of Prolia®for the treatment of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis is ongoing.

XGEVA®

In December 2014, we received FDA approval for XGEVA®for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy refractory to bisphosphonate therapy.

Phase 3 studies for the delay or prevention of bone metastases in patients with adjuvant breast cancer and prevention of SREs in patients with multiple myeloma are ongoing. A phase 2 study in NSCLC is ongoing.

Evolocumab

Evolocumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 (PCSK9). It is being investigated as a treatment for dyslipidemia.

In August 2014, we submitted a BLA to the FDA for evolocumab seeking approval for the treatment in high cholesterol and was accepted for review by the FDA in November 2014. In September 2014, our MAA submitted to the EMA was accepted for review.

In March and August 2014, we also announced results from two phase 3 lipid lowering clinical studies evaluating evolocumab in combination with statin therapy in Japanese patients and in homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia patients. Both studies met their co-primary endpoints.

Additional phase 3 studies to evaluate evolocumab for cardiovascular outcomes, on cognitive function, in statin-intolerant subjects, in subjects with genetic low-density lipoprotein disorders, and with intravascular ultrasound are ongoing.

Romosozumab

Romosozumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of sclerostin. It is being investigated as a treatment for bone loss. Romosozumab is being developed in collaboration with UCB.












Phase 3 studies for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis are ongoing. A phase 3 study in male osteoporosis was initiated in 2014.

Talimogene laherparepvec

Talimogene laherparepvec is an oncolytic immunotherapy derived from HSV-1. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

A BLA has been accepted for review by the FDA as has an MAA by the EMA for talimogene laherparepvec for the treatment of patients with regionally or distantly metastatic melanoma.

In December 2014, we initiated a clinical trial to evaluate talimogene laherparepvec in combination with Merck's anti-PD-1 therapy, KEYTRUDA®(pembrolizumab), in patients with mid- to late-stage metastatic melanoma.

Trebananib

Trebananib is a peptibody that inhibits Ang1 and Ang2. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In November 2014, we announced secondary endpoint results of overall survival from the phase 3 TRINOVA-1 trial in women with recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. While the primary endpoint of PFS was met, the secondary endpoint of overall survival was not met. Also in November 2014, we announced results of a second phase 3 study in recurrent ovarian cancer (with or without pegylated liposomal doxorubicin). The primary endpoint of PFS was not met. We have terminated the clinical development program in recurrent ovarian cancer.

A phase 3 study evaluating trebananib in the first-line setting of ovarian cancer is ongoing.

Vectibix®

Vectibix®is a human monoclonal antibody antagonist of the EGFr. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment.

In May 2014, we received FDA approval for Vectibix®for use in combination with FOLFOX, an oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy regimen, as first-line treatment in patients with wild-type KRAS (exon 2) mCRC. In addition, this approval converts the accelerated monotherapy approval to a full approval for Vectibix®. The FDA also approved the therascreen®KRAS RGQ PCR Kit developed by QIAGEN (therascreen®KRAS test) as a companion diagnostic for Vectibix®.

A phase 3 study evaluating the survival benefit of Vectibix®plus best supportive care (BSC) compared with BSC alone in subjects with chemorefractory, wild-type KRAS exon 2 mCRC is ongoing.

AMG 139

AMG 139 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of IL-23. It is being investigated as a treatment for Crohn’s disease, with a phase 2 study ongoing. AMG 139 is being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca.

AMG 157

AMG 157 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of TSLP. It is being investigated as a treatment for asthma, with a phase 2 study ongoing. AMG 157 is being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca.

AMG 181

AMG 181 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the action of alpha4/beta7. It is being investigated as a treatment for ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, with phase 2 studies ongoing. AMG 181 is being jointly developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca.

AMG 334

AMG 334 is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the receptor for Calcitonin Gene-Related Peptide. It is being investigated for the prevention of migraine. The phase 2 study in episodic migraine has completed while the phase 2 study in chronic migraine is ongoing.

AMG 337

AMG 337 is a small molecule inhibitor of MET. It is being investigated as a cancer treatment with a phase 2 study for the treatment of gastric cancer ongoing.












Omecamtiv mecarbil

Omecamtiv mecarbil is a small molecule activator of cardiac myosin. It is being investigated for the treatment of heart failure. We are developing this product in collaboration with Cytokinetics, Inc.

A phase 2 dose escalation study to select and evaluate an oral modified release formulation of omecamtiv mecarbil in subjects with heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction is ongoing.

Onyx Pharmaceuticals

Kyprolis®

Kyprolis®is a novel proteasome inhibitor. It is being investigated as a treatment for patients with multiple myeloma and small-cell lung cancer.

In August 2014, we and Onyx announced that a planned interim analysis demonstrated that a phase 3 clinical trial in relapsed multiple myeloma (ASPIRE) met its primary endpoint of PFS. While the data for overall survival, a secondary endpoint, are not yet mature, the analysis showed a trend in favor of Kyprolis®in combination with REVLIMID®and low-dose dexamethasone that did not reach statistical significance.

In August 2014, we and Onyx announced that the phase 3 clinical trial in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (FOCUS) did not meet its primary endpoint  of improving overall survival.

In January 2015, we and Onyx announced the submission of a sNDA to the FDA and an MAA to the EMA for Kyprolis®to seek approval for the treatment of patients with relapsed multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy. In the United States, the sNDA is designed to support the conversion of accelerated approval to full approval and expand the current approved indication. In the EU, Kyprolis®received orphan drug designation and the MAA has been granted accelerated assessment.

Phase 3 studies in combination with dexamethasone compared to bortezomib in combination with dexamethasone in relapsed multiple myeloma, and in combination with melphalan and prednisone compared to bortezomib, melphalan and prednisone in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma are ongoing.

Oprozomib

Oprozomib is an oral proteasome inhibitor. It is being investigated for the treatment of hematologic malignancies, with phase 1b/2 studies ongoing.

Amgen Development of Biosimilars

We continue to collaborate with Actavis Inc. to develop and commercialize, on a worldwide basis, four oncology antibody biosimilar medicines. The products our collaboration is pursuing include biosimilar versions of bevacizumab (Avastin®), trastuzumab (Herceptin®), rituximab (Rituxan®/ Mabthera®) and cetuximab (Erbitux®).

We are also working to develop biosimilar versions of adalimumab (HUMIRA®) and infliximab (REMICADE®), in addition to three other biosimilar molecules. Our biosimilar product candidates are in varying stages of regulatory development as described in the following table:

BiosimilarStatusadalimumab (HUMIRA®)Phase 3 psoriasis study met primary endpointPhase 3 RA study met primary and key secondary endpointstrastuzumab (Herceptin®)Phase 3 breast cancerbevacizumab (Avastin®)Phase 3 NSCLCinfliximab (REMICADE®)Phase 1












Business Relationships

From time to time, we enter into business relationships, including joint ventures and collaborative arrangements, for the R&D, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and/or product candidates. In addition, we also acquire product and R&D technology rights and establish R&D collaborations with third parties to enhance our strategic position within our industry by strengthening and diversifying our R&D capabilities, product pipeline and marketed product base. These arrangements generally provide for non-refundable, upfront license fees; development and commercial performance milestone payments; cost sharing; royalty payments and/or profit sharing. The activities under these collaboration agreements are performed with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success, and each is unique in nature.

Trade secret protection for our unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to us. To protect our trade secrets, we generally require counterparties to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of the business relationship with us. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or unlawfully obtain access to our information.

Kirin-Amgen, Inc.

Kirin-Amgen, Inc. (K-A) is a 50-50 joint venture with Kirin Holdings Company, Limited (Kirin). K-A develops and then out-licenses to third parties certain product rights which have been transferred to this joint venture from Amgen and Kirin.

K-A has given us exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and pegfilgrastim in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, all Central American, South American and African countries and certain countries in Asia and the Middle East; (ii) darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and brodalumab in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, all Central and South American countries and certain countries in Central Asia, Africa and the Middle East; and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in the United States. We currently market pegfilgrastim, G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, recombinant human erythropoietin and romiplostim under the brand names Neulasta®, NEUPOGEN®/GRANULOKINE®, Aranesp®, EPOGEN®and Nplate®, respectively.  Under these agreements, we pay K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, we also receive payments from K-A for milestones earned and for conducting certain R&D activities on its behalf. See Part IV—Note 8, Related party transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

K-A has also given Kirin exclusive licenses to manufacture and market: (i) G-CSF and pegfilgrastim in Japan, Taiwan and South Korea; (ii) darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and brodalumab in Japan, China, Taiwan, South Korea and in certain other countries and/or regions in Asia; and (iii) recombinant human erythropoietin in Japan. K-A also gave Kirin and Amgen co-exclusive licenses to manufacture and market G-CSF, pegfilgrastim and recombinant human erythropoietin in China, which Amgen subsequently assigned to Kirin, and as a result, Kirin now exclusively manufactures and markets G-CSF and recombinant human erythropoietin in China. Kirin markets G-CSF, pegfilgrastim, darbepoetin alfa, romiplostim and recombinant human erythropoietin under the brand names GRAN®/Grasin®, Peglasta®/Neulasta®/G-Lasta®, NESP®/Aranesp®, ROMIPLATE®and ESPO®, respectively. Under these agreements, Kirin pays K-A royalties based on product sales. In addition, Kirin also receives payments from K-A for conducting certain R&D activities on its behalf.

K-A has also given J&J exclusive licenses to manufacture and market recombinant human erythropoietin for all geographic areas of the world outside the United States, China and Japan. Under this agreement, J&J pays royalties to K-A based on product sales. K-A gave Roche exclusive licenses to market filgrastim and pegfilgrastim in all territories not then licensed to Amgen and Kirin. Effective January 1, 2014, we acquired Roche’s licenses to market filgrastim and pegfilgrastim.  See Part IV—Note 3, Business combinations, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Pfizer Inc.

The co-promotion term of our ENBREL collaboration agreement with Pfizer in the United States and Canada expired on October 31, 2013 giving us full ownership of ENBREL promotional rights in the United States and Canada while the rights to market ENBREL outside the United States and Canada are reserved to Pfizer. Under the collaboration agreement, Amgen and Pfizer shared in the agreed-upon selling and marketing expenses approved by a joint committee. We paid Pfizer a percentage of annual gross profits on our ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada on a scale that increased with gross profits; however, we maintained a majority share of ENBREL profits. We are required to pay Pfizer residual royalties based on a declining percentage of annual net ENBREL sales in the United States and Canada for three years, ranging from 12% to 10%. The amounts of such payments are significantly less than what was owed based on the terms of the previous ENBREL profit share.Effective November 1, 2016, there will be no further royalty payments.












Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc.

As a result of our acquisition of Onyx, we are party to a collaboration with Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Bayer) to jointly develop and commercialize Nexavar®(sorafenib) worldwide, except in Japan. The rights to develop and market Nexavar®in Japan are reserved to Bayer. Bayer has no obligation to pay royalties to Amgen for sales of Nexavar®in Japan. Under the agreements, we fund 50% of mutually agreed R&D costs. In the United States we co-promote Nexavar®with Bayer and share equally in the profits or losses of Nexavar®. Outside of the United States, excluding Japan, Bayer manages all commercialization activities and incurs all of the sales and marketing expenditures, and we reimburse Bayer for half of those expenditures. In all countries outside of the United States, except Japan, we receive 50% of net profits on sales of Nexavar®after deducting certain Bayer-related costs.

AstraZeneca Plc.

We are in a collaboration with AstraZeneca to jointly develop and commercialize certain monoclonal antibodies from Amgen's clinical inflammation portfolio, including brodalumab, AMG 139, AMG 157, AMG 181, AMG 557 and AMG 570. The agreement covers the worldwide development and commercialization of these antibodies, except for certain Asian countries for brodalumab and Japan for AMG 557 and AMG 570, which are licensed to other third parties.

Under the terms of the agreement, approximately 65% of related development costs for the 2012-2014 periods were funded by AstraZeneca; now, the companies share costs equally. If approved for sale, Amgen would receive a low-single-digit royalty rate for brodalumab and a mid-single-digit royalty rate for the rest of the portfolio, after which the worldwide commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration products would be shared equally.

UCB

We are in a collaboration with UCB for the development and commercialization of romosozumab. Under the agreement,  we received the rights to commercialize romosozumab for all indications in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Japan. UCB has the rights for all EU members at the time of first regulatory approval, Australia and New Zealand. Prior to commercialization, countries that have not been initially designated will be designated to Amgen or UCB in accordance with the terms of the agreement.

Generally, development costs are shared equally and we will share equally in the worldwide commercialization profits and losses related to the collaboration after accounting for expenses.

DaVita Inc.

We are in a seven-year supply agreement with DaVita that commenced January 1, 2012. Pursuant to this agreement, we will supply EPOGEN®in amounts necessary to meet no less than 90% of DaVita's and its affiliates' requirements for ESAs used in providing dialysis services in the United States and Puerto Rico. The agreement may be terminated by either party before expiration of its term in the event of certain breaches of the agreement by the other party.



Human Resources

As ofDecember 31, 2014, Amgen had approximately 17,900 staff members. This number includes staff members expected to leave during 2015 in connection with the restructuring plan announced during the second half of 2014, including the closure of facilities. We consider our staff relations to be good.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company as of February 12, 2015 are set forth below.

Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 52, has served as a director of the Company since October 2011 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 1, 2013. Mr. Bradway has been the Company’s President since May 2010 and Chief Executive Officer since May 2012. From May 2010 to May 2012, Mr. Bradway served as the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Bradway joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations Strategy and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 2007 to May 2010. Prior to joining the Company, he was a Managing Director at Morgan Stanley in London where he had responsibility for the firm’s banking department and corporate finance activities in Europe and focused on healthcare.  Mr. Bradway has been a director of Norfolk Southern Corporation, a transportation company, since July 2011.










Mr. Madhavan (“Madhu”) Balachandran, age 64, became Executive Vice President, Operations in August 2012. Mr. Balachandran joined the Company in 1997 and has held leadership positions in engineering, information systems and operations.  From October 2007 to August 2012, Mr. Balachandran was Senior Vice President, Manufacturing. From February 2007 to October 2007, Mr. Balachandran was Vice President, Site Operations. From May 2002 to February 2007, Mr. Balachandran was Vice President, Puerto Rico Operations. Prior to 2002, Mr. Balachandran served as Associate Director Capital Projects before his promotion to Director Engineering and then to Vice President, Information Management. Previously, Mr. Balachandran served as Vice President, Engineering at Burroughs Wellcome & Company.

Dr. Sean E. Harper, age 52, became Executive Vice President, Research and Development in February 2012. Dr. Harper joined the Company in 2002, and has held leadership roles in early development, medical sciences and global regulatory and safety. Dr. Harper served as Senior Vice President, Global Development and Corporate Chief Medical Officer from March 2007 to February 2012. Prior to joining the Company, Dr. Harper worked for five years at Merck Research Laboratories.

Mr. Anthony C. Hooper, age 60, became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations in October 2011. From March 2010 to October 2011, Mr. Hooper was Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations and President, U.S., Japan and Intercontinental of BMS. From January 2009 to March 2010, Mr. Hooper was President, Americas of BMS. From January 2004 to January 2009, Mr. Hooper was President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals Group, a division of BMS. Prior to this, Mr. Hooper held various senior leadership positions at BMS. Prior to joining BMS, Mr. Hooper was Assistant Vice President of Global Marketing for Wyeth Laboratories.

Mr. Brian McNamee, age 58, became Executive Vice President, Full Potential Initiatives in October 2013. Mr. McNamee joined the Company in June 2001 as Senior Vice President, Human Resources. From November 1999 to June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division of the General Electric Company. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resources positions at General Electric.

Mr. David W. Meline, age 57, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2014. From April 2011 to July 2014, Mr. Meline served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at 3M Company. From September 2008 to March 2011, Mr. Meline served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of 3M. Prior to 2008, Mr. Meline served in a variety of senior leadership roles for General Motors Company for over 20 years, with his last position being Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, North America. Mr. Meline has been a director of TRW Automotive Holdings, Corp., a supplier of automotive systems, modules and components, since February 2014.

Ms. Cynthia M. Patton, age 53, became Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer in October 2012. Ms. Patton joined the Company in 2005. From July 2005 to September 2010, Ms. Patton was Associate General Counsel. From September 2010 to October 2012, Ms. Patton was Vice President, Law. Previously, Ms. Patton served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of SCAN Health Plan from 1999 to 2005.

Mr. David A. Piacquad, age 58, became Senior Vice President, Business Development in March 2014.  Mr. Piacquad joined the Company in June 2010. From June 2010 to January 2014, Mr. Piacquad served as Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development.  From January 2014 to March 2014, Mr. Piacquad served as Vice President, Business Development. Prior to joining the Company, from December 2009 to June 2010, Mr. Piacquad was Principal of David A. Piacquad Consulting LLC. From March 2006 to December 2009, Mr. Piacquad served as Senior Vice President, Business Development and Licensing for Schering-Plough Corporation. Prior to Schering-Plough, Mr. Piacquad served in a series of leadership roles in finance and business development at J&J, with his last position being Vice President, Ventures and Business Development.

Mr. David J. Scott, age 62, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2004. From May 1999 to February 2004, Mr. Scott served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Medtronic, Inc. and also as Secretary from January 2000. From December 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Scott served as General Counsel of London-based United Distillers & Vintners. Mr. Scott also served in executive roles at Grand Metropolitan plc and RJR Nabisco, Inc., and was an attorney in private practice. Mr. Scott has notified the Company that he intends to retire at the end of May 2015.

Dr. Stuart A. Tross, age 48, became Senior Vice President, Human Resources in October 2013. Dr. Tross joined the Company in April 2006 as Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining Amgen, from November 1998 to April 2006, Dr. Tross served in a series of roles for BMS, with his last position being Vice President and Global Head of Human Resources of Mead Johnson Nutrition. Prior to joining BMS, Dr. Tross was a management consultant for Towers Perrin.



Geographic Area Financial Information

For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Part IV—Note 19, Segment information—Geographic information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.












Investor Information

Financial and other information about us is available on our website at www.amgen.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, we have previously filed registration statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, or at the SEC’s internet address at www.sec.gov. These website addresses are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing. Information related to the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330.



