Item 1.Business

General

Extra Space Storage Inc. (“we,” “our,” “us” or the “Company”) is a fully integrated,self-administeredandself-managedreal estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed as a Maryland corporation on April 30, 2004, to own, operate, manage, acquire,
develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage properties (“stores”). We closed our initial public offering (“IPO”) on August 17, 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
“EXR.”

We were formed to continue the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries, which had engaged in theself-storagebusiness since 1977. These companies were reorganized after the consummation of our IPO and various formation transactions. As of December 31, 2015, we held ownership interests in 999 operating
stores. Of these operating stores, 746 arewholly-ownedand 253 are owned in joint venture partnerships. An additional 348 operating stores are owned by third parties and operated by us in exchange for a
management fee, bringing the total number of operating stores which we own and/or manage to 1,347. These operating stores are located in 36 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico and contain approximately 101 million square feet of net
rentable space in approximately 896,000 units and currently serve a customer base of approximately 800,000 tenants.

We operate in three
distinct segments: (1) rental operations; (2) tenant reinsurance; and (3) property management, acquisition and development. Our rental operations activities include rental operations of stores in which we have an ownership interest.
Tenant reinsurance activities include the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored by tenants in the Company’s stores. Our property management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing and
selling stores.

Substantially all of our business is conducted through Extra Space Storage LP (the “Operating
Partnership”). Our primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”). To the extent we continue to qualify as a REIT we will not be subject to tax, with certain exceptions, on our net taxable income that is distributed to our
stockholders.

We file our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and all amendments to those reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may obtain







copies of these documents by visiting the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330or by accessing the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are furnished to the SEC, we
make copies of these documents available to the public free of charge through our website at www.extraspace.com, or by contacting our Secretary at our principal offices, which are located at 2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400, Salt Lake
City, Utah 84121, telephone number (801) 365-4600.

Acquisition of SmartStop

On October 1, 2015, we completed the previously announced acquisition of SmartStop Self Storage, Inc. (“SmartStop”), a public
non-traded REIT. SmartStop stockholders received $13.75 per share in cash, which represents a total purchase price of approximately $1.4 billion. We paid approximately $1.3 billion and the remaining consideration came from the sale of certain assets
by SmartStop immediately prior to the closing. As a result of the acquisition, we acquired 122 stores and assumed the management of 43 stores previously managed by SmartStop.

Management

Members of our executive
management team have significant experience in all aspects of theself-storageindustry, having acquired and/or developed a significant number of stores since before our IPO. Our executive management team and
their years of industry experience are as follows: Spencer F. Kirk, Chief Executive Officer, 18 years; Scott Stubbs, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 15 years; Samrat Sondhi, Executive Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer, 12 years; Gwyn McNeal, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, 10 years; James Overturf, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, 17 years; Joseph D. Margolis, Executive Vice President and Chief
Investment Officer, 10 years; and Kenneth M. Woolley, Executive Chairman, 35 years.

Our executive management team and board of
directors have a significant ownership position in the Company with executive officers and directors owning approximately 4,923,970 shares or 3.9% of our outstanding common stock as of February 18, 2016.

Industry & Competition

Stores
offermonth-to-monthstorage space rental for personal or business use and are acost-effectiveand flexible storage alternative.
Tenants rent fully enclosed spaces that can vary in size according to their specific needs and to which they have unlimited, exclusive access. Tenants have responsibility for moving their items into and out of their units.Self-storageunit sizes typically range from 5 feet by 5 feet to 20 feet by 20 feet, with an interior height of 8 feet to 12 feet. Stores generally haveon-sitemanagers who
supervise and run theday-to-dayoperations, providing tenants with assistance as needed.

Self-storageprovides a convenient way for individuals and businesses to store their possessions due
to life changes, or simply because of a need for storage space. The mix of residential tenants using a store is determined by a store’s local demographics and often includes people who are looking to downsize their living space or others who
are not yet settled into a permanent residence. Items that residential tenants place inself-storagerange from cars, boats and recreational vehicles, to furniture, household items and appliances. Commercial
tenants tend to include small business owners who require easy and frequent access to their goods, records, inventory or storage for seasonal goods.

Our research has shown that tenants choose a store based primarily on the convenience of the site to their home or business, makinghigh-density,high-trafficpopulation centers ideal locations for stores. A store’s perceived security and the general professionalism of the site managers and staff are
also contributing factors to a







site’s ability to successfully secure rentals. Although most stores are leased to tenants on amonth-to-monthbasis, tenants tend to continue their leases for extended periods of time.

Theself-storagebusiness is subject to seasonal fluctuations. A greater portion of revenues and profits are realized from May through September. Historically, our highest level of occupancy has been at the end of July, while our lowest level of occupancy has been
in late February and early March.

Since inception in the early 1970’s, theself-storageindustry has experienced significant growth. The self-storage industry has also seen increases in occupancy over the past several years. According to theSelf-StorageAlmanac (the “Almanac”), in
2008, the national average physical occupancy rate was 80.3% of net rentable square feet, compared to an average physical occupancy rate of 90.2% in 2015.

We have encountered competition when we have sought to acquire stores, especially for brokered portfolios. Aggressive bidding practices have
been commonplace between both public and private entities, and this competition will likely continue.

The industry is also characterized
by fragmented ownership. According to the Almanac, the top tenself-storagecompanies in the United States owned approximately 17.4% of the total U.S. stores, and the top 50self-storagecompanies owned approximately 21.9% of the total U.S. stores as of December 31, 2015. We believe this fragmentation will contribute to continued consolidation at some level in the future. We
also believe that we are well positioned to compete for acquisitions given our historical reputation for closing deals.

We are the second
largestself-storageoperator in the United States. We are one of five publicself-storageREITs along with CubeSmart, National Storage Affiliates, SovranSelf-Storage, Inc.and Public Storage Inc.

Long-TermGrowth and
Investment Strategies

Our primary business objectives are to maximize cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders and to
achieve sustainablelong-termgrowth in cash flow per share in order to maximizelong-termstockholder value. We continue to evaluate a range of growth initiatives and
opportunities, including the following:



•Maximize the performance of our stores through strategic, efficient and proactive management.We pursuerevenue-generatingandexpense-minimizingopportunities in our operations. Our revenue management team seeks to maximize revenue by responding to changing market conditions through our advanced technology system’s ability to
providereal-time,interactive rental rate and discount management. Our size allows us greater ability than the majority of our competitors to implement more effective online marketing programs, which we
believe will attract more customers to our stores at a lower net cost.



•Acquire stores.Our acquisitions team continues to pursue the acquisition ofmulti-storeportfolios and single stores that we believe can provide stockholder value.
We have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which we believe enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In addition, we believe our status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals. We continue to bid
on available acquisitions and are seeing increasing prices. However, we remain a disciplined buyer and look for acquisitions that will strengthen our portfolio and increase stockholder value.



•Expand our management business.Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint. We believe this expanded footprint enables us
to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic relationships with owners whose stores would enhance our portfolio in the event an
opportunity arises to acquire such stores.







Financing of OurLong-TermGrowth Strategies

Acquisition and Development Financing

The following table presents information on our lines of credit (the “Credit Lines”) for the periods indicated. All of our Credit
Lines are guaranteed by us and secured by mortgages on certain real estate assets (amounts in thousands).



As of December 31, 2015Line of CreditAmountDrawnCapacityInterestRateOriginationDateMaturityBasis Rate (1)NotesCredit Line 1$36,000$180,0002.1%6/4/20106/30/2018LIBOR plus 1.7%(2)Credit Line 2—50,0002.2%11/16/20102/13/2017LIBOR plus 1.8%(3)Credit Line 3—80,0002.1%4/29/201111/18/2016LIBOR plus 1.7%(3)Credit Line 4—50,0002.1%9/29/20149/29/2017LIBOR plus 1.7%(3)$36,000$360,000



(1)30-day USD LIBOR

(2)One two-year extension available

(3)Two one-year extensions available

We expect to maintain a flexible approach in financing new store
acquisitions. We plan to finance future acquisitions through a combination of cash, borrowings under the Credit Lines, traditional secured and unsecured mortgage financing, joint ventures and additional debt or equity offerings.

Joint Venture Financing

We own
253 of our stores through joint ventures with third parties, including affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. In each joint venture, we generally manage theday-to-dayoperations of the underlying stores and have the right to participate in major decisions relating to sales of stores or financings by the applicable joint
venture. Our joint venture partners typically provide most of the equity capital required for the operation of the respective business. Under the operating agreements for the joint ventures, we maintain the right to receive between 2.0% and 96.7% of
the available cash flow from operations after our joint venture partners and the Company have received a predetermined return, and between 17.0% and 96.7% of the available cash flow from capital transactions after our joint venture partners and the
Company have received a return of their capital plus such predetermined return. Most joint venture agreements includebuy-sellrights, as well as rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of stores
by the joint venture.

Disposition of Stores

We will continue to review our portfolio for stores or groups of stores that are underperforming or are not strategically located, and
determine whether to dispose of these stores to fund other growth. As of December 31, 2015, we had seven stores that were categorized as held for sale.

Regulation

Generally, stores are subject
to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to lien sale rights and procedures. Changes in any of these laws or regulations, as well as changes in laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response and
Compensation Liability Act, which increase the potential liability for environmental conditions or circumstances existing or created by tenants or others on stores, or laws affecting development, construction, operation, upkeep, safety and taxation
may result in significant







unanticipated expenditures, loss of stores or other impairments to operations, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”), places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal
requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws also exist that may require modifications to the stores, or restrict further
renovations thereof, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct anynon-complyingfeature, thereby requiring substantial capital expenditures. To the extent our stores are not in compliance, we are likely to incur additional costs to comply with the ADA.

Insurance activities are subject to state insurance laws and regulations as determined by the particular insurance commissioner for each state
in accordance with theMcCarran-FergusonAct, and are subject to theGramm-Leach-BlileyAct and the privacy regulations
promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant thereto.

Store management activities are often subject to state real estate
brokerage laws and regulations as determined by the particular real estate commission for each state.

Changes in any of the laws
governing our conduct could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business or could materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Employees

As of February 18, 2016,
we had 3,209 employees and believe our relationship with our employees is good. Our employees are not represented by a collective bargaining agreement.



