Item 1.Business

General

Extra Space Storage Inc. (“we,” “our,” “us” or the “Company”) is a fully integrated,self-administeredandself-managedreal estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed as a Maryland corporation on April 30, 2004, to own, operate, manage, acquire,
develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage properties (“stores”). We closed our initial public offering (“IPO”) on August 17, 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
“EXR.”

We were formed to continue the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries, which had engaged in theself-storagebusiness since 1977. These companies were reorganized after the consummation of our IPO and various formation transactions. As of December 31, 2014, we held ownership interests in 828 operating
stores. Of these operating stores, 557 arewholly-ownedand 271 are owned in joint venture partnerships. An additional 260 operating stores are owned by third parties and operated by us in exchange for a
management fee, bringing the total number of operating stores which we own and/or manage to 1,088. These operating stores are located in 35 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico and contain approximately 80.4 million square feet of net
rentable space in approximately 725,000 units and currently serve a customer base of approximately 650,000 tenants.

We operate in three
distinct segments: (1) rental operations; (2) tenant reinsurance; and (3) property management, acquisition and development. Our rental operations activities include rental operations of stores in which we have an ownership interest.
Tenant reinsurance activities include the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored by tenants in the Company’s stores. Our property management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing and
selling stores.

Substantially all of our business is conducted through Extra Space Storage LP (the “Operating
Partnership”). Our primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”). To the extent we continue to qualify as a REIT we will not be subject to tax, with certain exceptions, on our net taxable income that is distributed to our
stockholders.

We file our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and all amendments to those reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may obtain copies
of these documents by visiting the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330or by accessing the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such
materials are furnished to the SEC, we make copies of these documents available to the public free of charge through our website at www.extraspace.com, or by contacting our Secretary at our principal offices, which are located at 2795 East
Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, telephone number (801) 365-4600.







Management

Members of our executive management team have significant experience in all aspects of theself-storageindustry, having acquired and/or developed a significant number of stores since before our IPO. Our executive management team and their years of industry experience are as follows: Spencer F. Kirk, Chief Executive Officer, 17 years; Scott
Stubbs, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 14 years; Samrat Sondhi, Executive Vice President of Operations, 11 years; Gwyn McNeal, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, 9 years; James Overturf, Executive Vice
President and Chief Marketing Officer, 16 years; Charles L. Allen, Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer, 17 years; and Kenneth M. Woolley, Executive Chairman, 34 years.

Our executive management team and board of directors have a significant ownership position in the Company with executive officers and
directors owning approximately 5,297,354 shares or 4.6% of our outstanding common stock as of February 18, 2015.

Industry & Competition

Self-storage stores offermonth-to-monthstorage space
rental for personal or business use and are acost-effectiveand flexible storage alternative. Tenants rent fully enclosed spaces that can vary in size according to their specific needs and to which they have
unlimited, exclusive access. Tenants have responsibility for moving their items into and out of their units.Self-storageunit sizes typically range from 5 feet by 5 feet to 20 feet by 20 feet, with an
interior height of 8 feet to 12 feet. Stores generally haveon-sitemanagers who supervise and run theday-to-dayoperations,
providing tenants with assistance as needed.

Self-storageprovides a convenient way for
individuals and businesses to store their possessions due to life changes, or simply because of a need for storage space. The mix of residential tenants using a store is determined by a store’s local demographics and often includes people who
are looking to downsize their living space or others who are not yet settled into a permanent residence. Items that residential tenants place inself-storagerange from cars, boats and recreational vehicles,
to furniture, household items and appliances. Commercial tenants tend to include small business owners who require easy and frequent access to their goods, records, inventory or storage for seasonal goods.

Our research has shown that tenants choose a store based primarily on the convenience of the site to their home or business, makinghigh-density,high-trafficpopulation centers ideal locations for stores. A self-storage store’s perceived security and the general professionalism of the site managers
and staff are also contributing factors to a site’s ability to successfully secure rentals. Although most stores are leased to tenants on amonth-to-monthbasis,
tenants tend to continue their leases for extended periods of time.

Theself-storagebusiness is
subject to seasonal fluctuations. A greater portion of revenues and profits are realized from May through September. Historically, our highest level of occupancy has been at the end of July, while our lowest level of occupancy has been in late
February and early March.

Since inception in the early 1970’s, theself-storageindustry has
experienced significant growth. According to theSelf-StorageAlmanac (the “Almanac”), in 2008 there were only 41,100 stores in the United States, with an average physical occupancy rate of 83.0% of
net rentable square feet, compared to 51,475 stores in 2014 with an average physical occupancy rate of 89.1% of net rentable square feet.

We have encountered competition when we have sought to acquire stores, especially for brokered portfolios. Aggressive bidding practices have
been commonplace between both public and private entities, and this competition will likely continue.

The industry is also characterized
by fragmented ownership. According to the Almanac, the top tenself-storagecompanies in the United States owned approximately 13.1% of the total U.S. self-storage stores, and the top 50self-storagecompanies owned approximately 17.1% of the total U.S. self-storage stores as of







December 31, 2014. We believe this fragmentation will contribute to continued consolidation at some level in the future. We also believe that we are well positioned to compete for
acquisitions given our historical reputation for closing deals.

We are the second largestself-storageoperator in the United States. We are one of four publicself-storageREITs along with Public Storage Inc., CubeSmart and SovranSelf-Storage, Inc.

Long-TermGrowth and Investment Strategies

Our primary business objectives are to maximize cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders and to achieve sustainablelong-termgrowth in cash flow per share in order to maximizelong-termstockholder value. We continue to evaluate a range of growth initiatives and opportunities, including
the following:



•Maximize the performance of our stores through strategic, efficient and proactive management.We pursuerevenue-generatingandexpense-minimizingopportunities in our operations. Our revenue management team seeks to maximize revenue by responding to changing market conditions through our technology system’s ability to providereal-time,interactive rental rate and discount management. Our size allows us greater ability than the majority of our competitors to implement more effective online marketing programs, which we believe will
attract more customers to our stores at a lower net cost.



•Acquire self-storage stores.Our acquisitions team continues to pursue the acquisition ofmulti-storeportfolios and single stores that we believe can provide
stockholder value. We have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which we believe enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In addition, we believe our status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals.
We continue to bid on available acquisitions and are seeing increasing prices. However, we remain a disciplined buyer and look for acquisitions that will strengthen our portfolio and increase stockholder value.



•Expand our management business.Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint. We believe this expanded footprint enables us
to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic relationships with owners whose stores would enhance our portfolio in the event an
opportunity arises to acquire such stores.

Financing of OurLong-TermGrowth Strategies

Acquisition and Development Financing

The following table presents information on our lines of credit (the “Credit Lines”) for the periods indicated. All of our Credit
Lines are guaranteed by us and secured by mortgages on certain real estate assets.



As of December 31, 2014Line of CreditAmountDrawn (1)Capacity (1)InterestRateOriginationDateMaturityBasis Rate (2)NotesCredit Line 1$7,000$85,0002.1%6/4/20106/3/2016LIBOR plus 1.9%(3)Credit Line 241,00050,0001.9%11/16/20102/13/2017LIBOR plus 1.8%(4)Credit Line 350,00080,0001.9%4/29/201111/18/2016LIBOR plus 1.7%(4)Credit Line 440,00050,0001.8%9/29/20149/29/2017LIBOR plus 1.7%(4)$138,000$265,000



(1)Amounts in thousands

(2)30-day USD LIBOR

(3)One two-year extension available

(4)Two one-year extensions available







We expect to maintain a flexible approach in financing new self-storage store acquisitions. We plan to finance
future acquisitions through a combination of cash, borrowings under the Credit Lines, traditional secured mortgage financing, joint ventures and additional equity offerings.

Joint Venture Financing

We own
271 of our stores through joint ventures with third parties, including affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. In each joint venture, we generally manage theday-to-dayoperations of the underlying stores and have the right to participate in major decisions relating to sales of stores or financings by the applicable joint
venture. Our joint venture partners typically provide most of the equity capital required for the operation of the respective business. Under the operating agreements for the joint ventures, we maintain the right to receive between 2.0% and 99.0% of
the available cash flow from operations after our joint venture partners and the Company have received a predetermined return, and between 17.0% and 99.0% of the available cash flow from capital transactions after our joint venture partners and the
Company have received a return of their capital plus such predetermined return. Most joint venture agreements includebuy-sellrights, as well as rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of stores
by the joint venture.

Disposition of Self-Storage Stores

We will continue to review our portfolio for stores or groups of stores that are underperforming or are not strategically located, and
determine whether to dispose of these stores to fund other growth.

Regulation

Generally, stores are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to lien sale rights and procedures.
Changes in any of these laws or regulations, as well as changes in laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation Liability Act, which increase the potential liability for environmental conditions or circumstances existing
or created by tenants or others on stores, or laws affecting development, construction, operation, upkeep, safety and taxation may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, loss ofself-storagestores
or other impairments to operations, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Under the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”), places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of
additional U.S. federal, state and local laws also exist that may require modifications to the stores, or restrict further renovations thereof, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the
imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct anynon-complyingfeature, thereby requiring substantial capital expenditures. To the extent our
stores are not in compliance, we are likely to incur additional costs to comply with the ADA.

Insurance activities are subject to state
insurance laws and regulations as determined by the particular insurance commissioner for each state in accordance with theMcCarran-FergusonAct, and are subject to theGramm-Leach-BlileyAct and the privacy regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant thereto.

Store management activities are often subject to state real estate brokerage laws and regulations as determined by the particular real estate
commission for each state.

Changes in any of the laws governing our conduct could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our
business or could materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.







Employees

As of February 18, 2015, we had 2,643 employees and believe our relationship with our employees is good. Our employees are not represented
by a collective bargaining agreement.



