Item 1.    Business

General

Extra Space Storage Inc. ("we," "our," "us" or the "Company") is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment
trust ("REIT") formed as a Maryland corporation on April 30, 2004, to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage facilities. We closed our initial
public offering ("IPO") on August 17, 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "EXR."

We
were formed to continue the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries (the "Predecessor"), which had engaged in the self-storage business since 1977. These
companies were reorganized after the consummation of our IPO and various formation transactions. As of December 31, 2012, we held ownership interests in 729 operating properties. Of these
operating properties, 448 are wholly-owned, and 281 are owned in joint venture partnerships. An additional 181 operating properties are owned by third parties and operated by us in exchange for a
management fee, bringing the total number of operating properties which we own and/or manage to 910. These operating properties are located in 34 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico and contain
approximately 67.0 million square feet of net rentable space in approximately 610,000 units and currently serve a customer base of over 490,000 tenants.

We
operate in three distinct segments: (1) property management, acquisition and development; (2) rental operations; and (3) tenant reinsurance. Our property
management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing and redeveloping self-storage facilities. Our rental operations activities include rental operations of
self-storage facilities. Tenant reinsurance activities include the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored by tenants in the Company's self storage facilities.

Substantially
all of our business is conducted through Extra Space Storage LP (the "Operating Partnership"). Our primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests
in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). To the extent we continue to qualify as a REIT we will not be subject to tax, with certain exceptions, on our net taxable income that is distributed to our
stockholders.

We
file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may obtain copies of these documents by visiting the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 or by accessing the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are furnished to the SEC, we make copies of these documents
available to the public free of charge through our website at www.extraspace.com, or by contacting our Secretary at our principal offices, which are located at 2795 East Cottonwood Parkway,
Suite 400, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, telephone number (801) 365-4600.









Management

Members of our executive management team have significant experience in all aspects of the self-storage industry, having acquired
and/or developed a significant number of properties since before our IPO. Our executive management team and their years of industry experience are as follows: Spencer F. Kirk, Chief Executive Officer,
15 years; Scott Stubbs, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 12 years; Karl Haas, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, 25 years;
Charles L. Allen, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, 15 years; and Kenneth M. Woolley, Executive Chairman and Chief Investment Officer, 32 years.

Our
executive management team and board of directors have a significant ownership position in the Company with executive officers and directors owning approximately 6,119,889 shares or
5.5% of our outstanding common stock as of February 15, 2013.

Industry & Competition

Self-storage facilities refers to properties that offer month-to-month storage space rental for personal or business use. Self-storage
offers a cost-effective and flexible storage alternative. Tenants rent fully enclosed spaces that can vary in size according to their specific needs and to which they have unlimited, exclusive access.
Tenants have responsibility for moving their items into and out of their units. Self-storage unit sizes typically range from 5 feet by 5 feet to 20 feet by 20 feet, with an interior height of 8 feet
to 12 feet. Properties generally have on-site managers who supervise and run the day-to-day operations, providing tenants with assistance as needed.

Self-storage
provides a convenient way for individuals and businesses to store their possessions due to life changes, or simply because of a need for storage space. The mix of
residential tenants using a self-storage property is determined by a property's local demographics and often includes people who are looking to downsize their living space or others who are not yet
settled into a permanent residence. Items that residential tenants place in self-storage properties range from cars, boats and recreational vehicles, to furniture, household items and appliances.
Commercial tenants tend to include small business owners who require easy and frequent access to their goods, records, inventory or storage for seasonal goods.

Our
research has shown that tenants choose a self-storage property based primarily on the convenience of the site to their home or business, making high-density, high-traffic population
centers ideal locations for self-storage properties. A property's perceived security and the general professionalism of the site managers and staff are also contributing factors to a site's ability to
successfully secure rentals. Although most self-storage properties are leased to tenants on a month-to-month basis, tenants tend to continue their leases for extended periods of time.

There
are seasonal fluctuations in occupancy rates for self-storage properties. Based on our experience, generally, there is increased leasing activity at self-storage properties during
the spring and summer months. The highest level of occupancy is typically at the end of July, while the lowest level of occupancy is seen in late February and early March.

Since
inception in the early 1970's, the self-storage industry has experienced significant growth. According to the Self-Storage Almanac (the "Almanac"), in 2002 there were only 35,176
self-storage properties in the United States, with an average physical occupancy rate of 85.4% of net rentable square feet, compared to 50,859 self-storage properties in 2012 with an average physical
occupancy rate of 79.7% of net rentable square feet.

We
have encountered competition when we have sought to acquire properties, especially for brokered portfolios. Aggressive bidding practices have been commonplace between both public and
private entities, and this competition will likely continue.









The
industry is also characterized by fragmented ownership. According to the Almanac, the top ten self-storage companies in the United States owned approximately 11.4% of total U.S.
self-storage properties, and the top 50 self-storage companies owned approximately 15.1% of the total U.S. properties as of December 31, 2012. We believe this fragmentation will contribute to
continued consolidation at some level in the future. We also believe that we are well positioned to compete for acquisitions given our historical reputation for closing deals.

We
are the second largest self-storage operator in the United States. We are one of four public self-storage REITs along with Public Storage Inc., Sovran
Self-Storage, Inc., and CubeSmart.

Long-Term Growth and Investment Strategies

Our primary business objectives are to maximize cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders and to achieve sustainable
long-term growth in cash flow per share in order to maximize long-term stockholder value. We continue to evaluate a range of growth initiatives and opportunities, including the
following:

•

Maximize the performance of properties through strategic, efficient and
proactive management.We pursue revenue-generating and expense-minimizing opportunities in our operations. Our revenue management team
seeks to maximize revenue by responding to changing market conditions through our technology system's ability to provide real-time, interactive rental rate and discount management. Our size allows us
greater ability than the majority of our competitors to implement national, regional and local marketing programs, which we believe will attract more customers to our stores at a lower net cost.

•

Acquire self-storage properties from strategic partners and third
parties.Our acquisitions team continues to pursue the acquisition of single properties and multi-property portfolios that we believe
can provide stockholder value. We have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which we believe enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In addition, we believe our
status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals. We continue to see available acquisitions on which to bid and are seeing increasing prices. However, we remain a disciplined buyer and
look for acquisitions that will strengthen our portfolio and increase stockholder value.

•

Expand our management
business.Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint.
This expanded footprint enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic
relationships with owners whose properties would enhance our portfolio in the event an opportunity arises to acquire such properties.









Financing of Our Long-Term Growth Strategies

•Acquisition and Development
FinancingThe
following table presents information on our lines of credit (the "Credit Lines") for the periods indicated (amounts in thousands):

As of December 31, 2012Line of CreditAmountDrawnCapacityInterestRateOriginationDateMaturityBasis RateNotesCredit Line 1$35,000$75,0002.36%2/13/20092/13/2014LIBOR plus 2.15%(1)(4)(5)Credit Line 2—75,0002.41%6/4/20105/31/2013LIBOR plus 2.20%(2)(4)(5)Credit Line 3—40,0002.41%11/16/201011/16/2013LIBOR plus 2.20%(3)(4)(5)Credit Line 450,00050,0002.36%4/29/20115/1/2014LIBOR plus 2.15%(3)(4)(5)$85,000$240,000

(1)One
year extension available(2)One
two-year extension available(3)Two
one-year extensions available(4)Guaranteed
by the Company(5)Secured
by mortgages on certain real estate assets

We
expect to maintain a flexible approach in financing new property acquisitions. We plan to finance future acquisitions through a combination of cash, borrowings under the Credit Lines, traditional
secured mortgage financing, joint ventures and additional equity offerings.•Joint Venture
Financing

We
own 280 of our stabilized properties and one of our lease-up properties through joint ventures with third parties, including affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. In each joint venture,
we generally manage the day-to-day operations of the underlying properties and have the right to participate in major decisions relating to sales of properties or financings by the applicable joint
venture. Our joint venture partners typically provide most of the equity capital required for the operation of the respective business. Under the operating agreements for the joint ventures, we
maintain the right to receive between 2.0% and 58.3% of the available cash flow from operations after our joint venture partners and the Company have received a predetermined return, and between 17.0%
and 65.0% of the available cash flow from capital transactions after our joint venture partners and the Company have received a return of their capital plus such predetermined return. Most joint
venture agreements include buy-sell rights, as well as rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of properties by the joint venture.•Disposition of
PropertiesWe
will continue to review our portfolio for properties or groups of properties that are not strategically located and determine whether to dispose of these properties to fund other growth.

Regulation

Generally, self-storage properties are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to lien sale
rights and procedures. Changes in any of these laws or regulations, as well as changes in laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation









Liability
Act, which increase the potential liability for environmental conditions or circumstances existing or created by tenants or others on properties, or laws affecting development, construction,
operation, upkeep, safety and taxation may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, loss of self-storage sites or other impairments to operations, which would adversely affect our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

Under
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"), places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled
persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws also exist that may require modifications to the properties, or restrict further
renovations thereof, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could
result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, thereby requiring substantial capital expenditures. To the extent our properties are not in compliance, we are likely to incur additional costs
to comply with the ADA.

Insurance
activities are subject to state insurance laws and regulations as determined by the particular insurance commissioner for each state in accordance with the McCarran-Ferguson
Act, and are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the privacy regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant thereto.

Property
management activities are often subject to state real estate brokerage laws and regulations as determined by the particular real estate commission for each state.

Changes
in any of the laws governing our conduct could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business or could materially affect our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

Employees

As of February 15, 2013, we had 2,283 employees and believe our relationship with our employees is good. Our employees are not
represented by a collective bargaining agreement.

