Item 1.    Business

General

Extra Space Storage Inc. ("we," "our," "us" or the "Company") is a self-administered and self-managed
real estate investment trust ("REIT") formed as a Maryland corporation on April 30, 2004 to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop professionally managed self-storage
facilities. We closed our initial public offering ("IPO") on August 17, 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "EXR."

We
were formed to continue the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries (the "Predecessor"), which had engaged in the self-storage business since 1977.
These companies were reorganized after the consummation of our IPO and various formation transactions. As of December 31, 2009, we held ownership interests in 642 operating properties. Of these
642 operating properties, 290 are wholly-owned, and 352 are owned in joint-venture partnerships. An additional 124 operating properties are owned by franchisees or third parties and operated by us in
exchange for a management fee, bringing the total number of operating properties which we own and/or manage to 766. These operating properties are located in 33 states and Washington, D.C. and contain
approximately 55 million square feet of net rentable space in approximately 500,000 units and currently serve a customer base of over 350,000 tenants.

We
operate in three distinct segments: (1) property management, acquisition and development; (2) rental operations; and (3) tenant reinsurance. Our property
management, acquisition and development activities include managing, acquiring, developing and selling self-storage facilities. On June 2, 2009, we announced the
wind-down of our development activities. As of December 31, 2009, there were ten development projects remaining to be completed in our development pipeline. Our rental operations
activities include the direct and indirect ownership and operation of self-storage facilities. Tenant reinsurance activities include the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods
stored by tenants in the Company's self storage facilities.

Substantially
all of our business is conducted through Extra Space Storage LP (the "Operating Partnership"). Our primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests
in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). To the extent we continue to qualify as a REIT we will not be subject to tax, with certain exceptions, on our net taxable income that is distributed to our
stockholders.

We
file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those
reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may obtain copies of these documents by visiting the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549, by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or by accessing the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials
are furnished to the
SEC, we make copies of these documents available to the public free of charge through our website at www.extraspace.com, or by contacting our Secretary at our principal offices, which are located at
2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 400, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, telephone number (801) 562-5556.

Management

Members of our executive management team have significant experience in all aspects of the self-storage industry. The
senior management team has collectively acquired and/or developed more than 725 properties since 1996 for the Company, the Predecessor and other entities. Our executive management team and their years
of industry experience are as follows: Spencer F. Kirk, Chairman and











Chief
Executive Officer, 9 years; Kent W. Christensen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 12 years; Charles L. Allen, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer,
12 years, and Karl Haas, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, 22 years.

On
February 2, 2009, we announced that Kenneth M. Woolley, former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, had accepted an invitation to serve a mission for The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. Mr. Woolley stepped down from his position as Chief Executive Officer beginning April 1, 2009. Our board of directors selected Mr. Kirk to
succeed him as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The composition of the board of directors remained the same with the exception of the Chairman position which was assumed by Mr. Kirk.

Members
of the executive management team have guided the Company through substantial growth, developing and acquiring over $4.0 billion in assets since 1996. This growth has been
funded through public equity offerings and more than $2.0 billion in private equity capital since 1998. This private equity capital has come primarily from sophisticated, high
net-worth individuals and institutional investors such as affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. and Fidelity Investments.

Our
executive management and board of directors have a significant ownership position in the Company with executive officers and directors owning approximately 7,035,533 shares or 8.1%
of our outstanding common stock as of February 12, 2010.

Industry & Competition

Self-storage facilities refers to properties that offer month-to-month storage space rental for
personal or business use. Self-storage offers a cost-effective and flexible storage alternative. Tenants rent fully enclosed spaces that can vary in size according to their
specific needs and to which they have unlimited, exclusive access. Tenants have responsibility for moving their items into and out of their units. Self-storage unit sizes typically range
from five feet by five feet to 20 feet by 20 feet, with an interior height of eight to 12 feet. Properties generally have on-site managers who supervise and run the
day-to-day operations, providing tenants with assistance as needed.

Self-storage
provides a convenient way for individuals and businesses to store their possessions due to life changes, or simply because of a need for storage space. The mix
of residential tenants using a self-storage property is determined by a property's local demographics and often includes people who are looking to downsize their living space or others who
are not yet settled into a permanent residence. Items that residential tenants place in self-storage properties range from cars, boats and recreational vehicles, to furniture, household
items and appliances. Commercial tenants tend to include small business owners who require easy and frequent access to their goods, records, inventory or storage for seasonal goods.

Our
research has shown that tenants choose a self-storage property based primarily on the convenience of the site to their home or business, making high-density,
high-traffic population centers ideal locations for self-storage properties. A property's perceived security and the general professionalism of the site managers and staff are
also contributing factors to a site's ability to successfully secure rentals. Although most self-storage properties are leased to tenants on a month-to-month basis,
tenants tend to continue their leases for extended periods of time.

There
are seasonal fluctuations in occupancy rates for self-storage properties. Based on our experience, generally, there is increased leasing activity at
self-storage properties during the summer months due to the higher number of people who relocate during this period. The highest level of occupancy is typically at the end of July, while
the lowest level of occupancy is seen in late February and early March.

Since
inception in the early 1970's, the self-storage industry has experienced significant growth. In the past ten years, there has been even greater growth. According to the
Self-Storage Almanac (the











"Almanac"),
in 1999 there were only 29,955 self-storage properties in the United States, with an average occupancy rate of 86.9% of net rentable square feet, compared to 48,721
self-storage properties in 2009 with an average occupancy rate of 76.7% of net rentable square feet. As population densities have increased in the United States, there has been an increase
in self-storage awareness and corresponding development, which we expect will continue in the future.

Increased
competition has affected our business and has led to both pricing and discount pressure. The increased competition has limited our ability to increase revenues in many markets
in which we operate. Many markets have been able to absorb the increase in self-storage development due to superior demographics and density. However, select markets have not been able to
absorb the new facilities and have not performed as well.

We
have encountered competition when we have sought to acquire properties, especially for brokered portfolios. Aggressive bidding practices have been commonplace between both public and
private entities, and this competition will likely continue to be a challenge for the Company's growth strategy.

The
industry is also characterized by fragmented ownership. According to the Almanac, the top ten self-storage companies in the United States owned approximately 10.8% of
total U.S. self-storage properties, and the top 50 self-storage companies owned approximately 14.9% of the total U.S. properties as of December 31, 2009. We believe this
fragmentation will contribute to continued consolidation at some level in the future. We also believe that we are well positioned to be able to compete for acquisitions given our historical reputation
for closing deals.

We
are the second largest self-storage operator in the United States. We are one of four public self-storage REITs along with Public Storage Inc., Sovran
Self-Storage, Inc., and U-Store-It Inc.

Long-Term Growth and Investment Strategies

Our primary business objectives are to maximize cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders and to achieve sustainable
long-term growth in cash flow per share in order to maximize long-term stockholder value. We continue to evaluate a range of growth initiatives and opportunities, including the
following:

•

Maximize the performance of properties through strategic, efficient and
proactive management.We plan to pursue revenue generating and expense minimizing opportunities in our operations. Our revenue
management team will seek to maximize revenue by responding to changing market conditions through our technology system's ability to provide real-time, interactive rental rate and discount
management. Our size allows us greater ability than the majority of our competitors to implement national, regional and local marketing programs, which we believe will attract more customers to our
stores at a lower net cost.

•

Expand our management
business.Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees and expand our geographic footprint.
This expanded footprint enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic
relationships with owners that strengthen our acquisition pipeline through agreements which give us first right of refusal to purchase the managed property in the event of a potential sale.

•

Acquire self-storage properties from strategic partners and
third parties.Our acquisitions team will continue to selectively pursue the acquisition of single properties and multi-property
portfolios that we believe can provide stockholder value. We believe we have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In
addition, our status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals.









Financing of Our Long-Term Growth Strategies

•Acquisition and Development Financing

We
currently have a $100.0 million revolving line of credit (the "Credit Line") that is collateralized by certain of our self-storage properties. As of December 31, 2009, the
Credit Line had asset collateralizing capacity of $100.0 million of which $100.0 million was drawn. On February 13, 2009, we entered into a $50.0 million revolving secured
line of credit (the "Secondary Credit Line" and together with the Credit Line, collectively the "Credit Lines") that is collateralized by certain of our self-storage properties. As of
December 31, 2009, the Secondary Credit Line had asset collateralizing capacity of approximately $50.0 million of which $0 was drawn. We expect to maintain a flexible approach in
financing new property acquisitions. We plan to finance future acquisitions and development through a combination of cash, borrowings under the Credit Lines, traditional secured mortgage financing,
joint ventures and additional equity offerings.•Joint Venture Financing

We
own 336 of our stabilized properties and 16 of our lease-up properties through joint ventures with third parties, including affiliates of Prudential Financial, Inc. In each joint
venture, we generally manage the day-to-day operations of the underlying properties and have the right to participate in major decisions relating to sales of properties or
financings by the applicable joint venture. Our joint venture partners typically provide most of the equity capital required for the operation of the respective business. Under the operating
agreements for the joint ventures, we typically maintain the right to receive between 17.0% and 50.0% of the available cash flow from operations after our joint venture partners and the Company have
received a predetermined return, and between 17.0% and 50.0% of the available cash flow from capital transactions after our joint venture partners and the Company have received a return of their
capital plus such predetermined return. Most joint venture agreements include buy-sell rights, as well as rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of properties by the joint
venture.•Disposition of Properties

We
will continue to review our portfolio for properties or groups of properties that are not strategically located and determine whether to dispose of these properties to fund other growth.

Regulation

Generally, self-storage properties are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating
to lien sale rights and procedures. Changes in any of these laws or regulations, as well as changes in laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation Liability Act ("CERCLA"),
which increase the potential liability for environmental conditions or circumstances existing or created by tenants or others on properties, or laws affecting development, construction, operation,
upkeep, safety and taxation may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, loss of self-storage sites or other impairments to operations, which would adversely affect our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

Under
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"), all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled
persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws also exist that may require modifications to the properties, or restrict further
renovations thereof, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could
result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, thereby requiring substantial capital expenditures. To the extent our properties are not in compliance, we are likely to incur
additional costs to comply with the ADA.









Insurance
activities are subject to state insurance laws and regulations as determined by the particular insurance commissioner for each state in accordance with the McCarran-Ferguson
Act, and are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the privacy regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant thereto.

Property
management activities are often subject to state real estate brokerage laws and regulations as determined by the particular real estate commission for each state.

Changes
in any of the laws governing our conduct could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business or could materially affect our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

Employees

As of February 12, 2010, we had 2,001 employees and believe our relationship with our employees to be good. Our employees are
not represented by a collective bargaining agreement.

