ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

We are the world's leading provider of hard disk drives based on revenue. We design, manufacture, market and sell hard disk drives.
Hard disk drives commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs, are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. The performance attributes of
disk drives, including their cost effectiveness and high storage capacities have resulted in disk drives being used as the primary medium for storing electronic data.

We
produce a broad range of disk drive products addressing enterprise applications, where our products are designed for enterprise servers, mainframes and workstations; client compute
applications, where our products are designed for desktop and notebook computers; and client non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user
devices such as digital video recorders (DVRs), personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems and digital media systems. In addition to manufacturing and selling disk drives, we
provide data storage services for small- to medium-sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions.

Industry Overview

Electronic Data Storage Industry

The electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for electronic
data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions through a variety of technologies such as disk drives, tape storage and semiconductor-based storage technologies such as flash memory.
Participants in the electronic data storage industry include:

Major subcomponent manufacturers.Companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or
solutions include
companies such as Fuji Electric Device Technology Co., Ltd., Showa Denko K.K. and TDK Corporation, which supply heads and media to disk drive manufacturers; LSI Corporation and Marvell
Technology Group Limited, which supply application specific integrated circuits (ASICs); and Hoya Corporation, which supplies glass substrates.

Hardware storage solutions manufacturers.Companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers
such as Seagate,
Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Toshiba Corporation and Western Digital Corporation; magnetic tape storage manufacturers such as Quantum Corporation;
and semiconductor storage manufacturers such as Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SanDisk Corporation and STEC, Inc., whose operations include
integrating flash memory into storage products such as solid state drives (SSDs).

System integrators.Companies that bundle and package storage components such as storage hardware and software into client compute,
client
non-compute or enterprise applications. Client compute original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) include Acer Inc., Apple Inc., Dell Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company and
Lenovo Group Limited; client non-compute OEMs include Apple Inc., DIRECTV Group, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Motorola, Inc., Scientific-Atlanta Inc., a
subsidiary of Cisco Systems Inc., Sony Corporation and TiVo Inc.; and enterprise storage system OEMs include EMC Corporation, Hewlett-Packard Company and NetApp, Inc.
Distributors who in turn integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications are also included in this category.

Storage services.Another area within the electronic data storage industry is services and solutions related to the backup, archiving,
recovery and
discovery of electronic data.









Demand for Electronic Data Storage

The electronic data storage industry has traditionally been focused on client compute applications. We believe that technological
advances in storage technology and a proliferation of client non-compute applications such as digital video recorders, gaming devices, digital music players and digital cameras are driving
the broad, global proliferation and growth of digital content through the:

•creation and sharingof all types of digital content, such as
high-resolution photos, high definition video and movies and music by consumers and electronic data by enterprises;•aggregation and distributionof digital content through services and other
offerings by companies such as YouTube by Google Inc., Hulu LLC by the National Broadcasting Company and FOX Broadcasting Company (a News Corporation Company), iTunes by
Apple Inc., MySpace by News Corporation and Facebook;•network infrastructure, including broadband, cable and satellite that has
enabled the access, hosting and distribution of such digital content;•enjoyment and consumptionof digital content through DVRs, handheld
devices and gaming consoles, as well as in automobiles; and•protectionof digital content through storage on backup devices and
storage services.

As
a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and back up such
content. This in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage applications and solutions.

We
believe that demand for electronic data storage in the enterprise and traditional compute markets continues to grow as the proliferation of digital content in the consumer space has
resulted in additional demand for storage by enterprises, including those that host, aggregate, distribute or share such content. Other factors driving demand for additional storage
include:

•continued growth in cloud computing and backup services for enterprises seeking efficient and cost-effective
methods of processing and storing data, increases demand for storage as data centers expand and proliferate;•increasing legal and regulatory requirements, which necessitate larger archives;•changes in the nature and amount of data being stored, such as the growing use of digital records in the healthcare
industry; and•growth in data captured in computer to computer communications, or "dark data", which does not require human interaction.

Demand Trends for Disk Drives

We believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host,
distribute, manage, back up and use such content, which we believe will continue to result in increased demand for disk drive products. However, the disk drive industry is sensitive to global
macroeconomic conditions as experienced in fiscal year 2009.

Historically,
the electronic data storage industry has introduced alternative technologies that directly compete with hard disk drives. SSDs, using NAND flash memory, are a potential
alternative to disk drives in certain applications such as consumer handheld devices and portable external storage. NAND flash memory is a type of non-volatile storage technology that does
not require power to retain data. However, we believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise and client compute markets that require high capacity storage solutions, as well as the
data intensive client non-compute markets, will continue to











be
best served by hard disk drives based on the industry's ability to deliver reliable, power consumption efficient and cost effective mass storage devices.

Disk Drives for Enterprise Storage.We define enterprise storage as disk drives designed for mission critical applications and nearline
applications.

Mission
critical applications are defined as applications that are vital to the operation of enterprises, requiring high performance, and high reliability disk drives. We expect the
market for mission critical
enterprise storage solutions to be driven by enterprises continuing to move network traffic to dedicated storage area networks in an effort to reduce network complexity and increase energy savings. We
believe that this transition will lead to an increased demand for more energy efficient, smaller form factor disk drives. These solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class
disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies.

Nearline
applications are defined as applications that are less time-critical but capacity-intensive, such as reference data environments or redundancy for recovery purposes,
which require high capacity and low power consumption disk drives featuring lower costs per gigabyte. We expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing and backup services, will
continue to grow and drive demand for disk drives designed with these attributes as data centers expand and proliferate.

SSD
storage applications have been introduced as a potential alternative to redundant system startup or boot disk drives. In addition, enterprises are beginning to use SSDs in
applications where rapid processing and/or lower power consumption is required. The timing of significant adoption of SSDs is dependent on enterprises weighing the pricing and other benefits of
mission critical enterprise disk drives against the perceived performance benefits of SSDs.

Disk Drives for Client Compute.We define client compute applications as disk drives designed for the traditional desktop and mobile
compute
applications. In the near-term, we believe that demand growth in client compute applications will be driven by what we believe to be an accelerating corporate technology refresh cycle. In
the long-term, we believe that the proliferation of digital content will drive the demand for the client compute market.

As
the proliferation of client compute applications that require minimal storage such as tablets and netbooks continues, NAND flash technology could become more competitive within the
client compute market in the future.

Disk Drives for Client Non-Compute.We define client non-compute applications as disk drives designed for consumer electronic
devices and disk drives used for external storage and network-attached storage (NAS). Disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as DVRs that require
a higher capacity, lower cost-per-gigabyte storage solution. Disk drives for external and NAS devices are designed for purposes such as personal data backup and portable
external storage, and to augment the consumer's current desktop, notebook or DVR disk drive capacities. Client non-compute applications also include devices designed to display digital
media in the home theater. We believe the proliferation of high definition and media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher storage solutions.

Disk Drive Technology

Overview

The design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires
high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. Manufacturing our disk drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends
with a fully assembled unit. We design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads









and
recording media. Our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and
markets. Our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. Using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us
to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and a wide range of industries.

Disk Drive Performance

Disk drive performance is commonly differentiated by six key characteristics:

•storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (GB) or terabytes (TB), which is the amount of data that can be stored
on the disk;•spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (RPM), which has an effect on speed of access to
data;•interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the
disk drive and the computer controller;•average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected
track on the disk surface;•data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from
the disk; and•product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates.

Areal Density

Areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. The capacity of a disk drive is
determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. We expect the long-term demand for increased disk drive capacities will continue to
grow proportionately with the shift in storage applications from predominantly compute applications to more media-rich content. In particular, audio, video and photo storage data continue
to increase in size, with high definition video content being an example of data requiring many multiples of the storage capacity of standard video. We believe that demand will further intensify by
the proliferation of these forms of content. We have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for
expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs.

Manufacturing

Disk drive manufacturers are distinguished by their level of vertical integration, which is the degree to which they control the design
and manufacture of the technology used in their products and by whether they are captive, producing disk drives for their own computer systems, or independent, producing disk drives as a stand-alone
product.

Vertically
integrated hard drive manufacturers design and produce their own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. This integrated
approach enables manufacturers to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. In contrast, manufacturers that are not integrated purchase most of
their components from third-party suppliers, upon whom they depend for key elements of their technological innovation and differentiation. This can limit their ability to coordinate technology
roadmaps and optimize the component design process for manufacturing efficiency and product reliability while making them reliant on the technology investment decisions of their suppliers. Independent
manufacturers can enjoy a competitive











advantage
over captive manufacturers in working with OEMs because they do not compete with OEMs for computer system sales. We believe the competitive dynamics of the disk drive industry
favor vertically integrated, independent manufacturers with the scale to make substantial technology investments and apply them across a broad product portfolio and set of customers.

We
pursue a vertically integrated business strategy based on the ownership of critical component technologies, allowing us to maintain control over our product roadmap and component
cost, quality and availability. We believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components
for disk drives. Our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. We continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost
by:

•employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency;•improving product quality and reliability and reducing costs;•integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital
requirements;•coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume
manufacturing; and•rationalizing the facilities we operate and reducing the number of personnel we employ.

A
vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates because it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized.

Due
to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development
investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the
industry. The trend toward consolidation is more pronounced during times of macroeconomic contraction. For example, Toshiba Corporation acquired Fujitsu Limited's hard disk drive business in October
2009. The increasing technological challenges, associated levels of investment and competitive necessity of large-scale operations may also drive future industry consolidation. Additionally, we may in
the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products.

Components and Raw Materials

All of our disk drive products incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to
the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. We maintain a highly integrated approach to
our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media.

Read/Write Heads.The function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading
information. The
tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. Our read/write heads are manufactured with
thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are
unique to the disk drive industry. We perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced
read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels.









Media.Information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. The media is made from
non-magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with a thin layer of magnetic material. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced
finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. We purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we
use in the disk drives we make for mobile products.

Printed Circuit Board Assemblies.The printed circuit board assemblies (PCBAs) are comprised of standard and custom ASICs and ancillary
electronic
control chips. The ASICs control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. The ASICs and
control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or
retrieved. Disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (SATA); small computer system interface (SCSI); serial attached SCSI
(SAS); or Fibre Channel (FC) to communicate to the host systems. We outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the PCBAs used in our disk drives. We do not manufacture any ASICs, but
we participate in their proprietary design.

Head Disk Assembly.The head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that
rotates the
disks at a high constant speed around a hub. The disks, or recording media, are the components on which data is stored and from which it is retrieved. Each disk consists of a substrate of finely
machined aluminum or glass deposited with layers of
thin-film magnetic material. Read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and
retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. The read/write heads are mounted vertically on an E-shaped assembly that is actuated by a
voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. The E-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. We purchase spindle motors from
outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products.

Disk Drive Assembly.Following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the PCBA, and the completed unit goes through
extensive
defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. Disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in China, Singapore and Thailand. We perform subassembly and
component manufacturing operations at our facilities in China, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore, Thailand and in the United States in Minnesota. In addition, third parties manufacture and
assemble components for us in various Asian countries, including China, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam, in Europe and in the United States.

Suppliers of Components and Industry Constraints.Due to industry consolidation, there are a limited number of independent suppliers of
components,
such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. Vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component
suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers.

We
believe the supply chain was generally tight for the industry during most of fiscal year 2010. Availability of glass substrates, finished media and heads improved during the June 2010
quarter. However, supply of these critical components is still expected to be generally tight for the second half of the 2010 calendar year, reflecting typical seasonal patterns.

Commodity and Other Manufacturing Costs.The production of disk drives requires precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial
commodities, which are
subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. We believe that currently there is an adequate supply of these precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial
commodities. Additionally, volatility in fuel costs may increase our costs











related
to commodities, manufacturing and freight. As a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs.

Industry Supply Balance

From time to time the industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. To the extent that the disk drive
industry builds capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. Conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is
generally muted. For the first half of fiscal year 2010, our industry experienced unmet demand due to industry-wide supply constraints, while in the March 2010 quarter supply and demand
were relatively balanced. However, in the June 2010 quarter, industry supply exceeded demand, which we believe reflected a return to seasonal patterns typical of a June quarter.

Products

We offer a broad range of disk drive products for the enterprise, client compute and client non-compute market
applications. We offer more than one product within each product family and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency,
security features like full disk encryption and other customer integration requirements. Our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology, which contribute to rapid
product life cycles. We list our main current product offerings below.

Enterprise Storage

Cheetah SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family.Our Cheetah 3.5-inch disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and in storage capacities ranging
from 73GB to 600GB. Commercial uses for Cheetah disk drives include Internet and e-commerce servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and supercomputers, department/enterprise
servers and workstations, transaction processing, professional video and graphics and medical imaging.

Savvio SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family.We are currently shipping our fourth generation Savvio 2.5-inch enterprise disk drive featuring
increased throughput and improved power consumption, targeted at space optimized enterprise storage systems. Our Savvio disk drives ship in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from
73GB to 600GB. We believe that end-user customers are increasingly adopting the smaller 2.5-inch form factor enterprise class disk drives, which allow the installation of more
disk drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data.

Barracuda ES SATA Family.Our Barracuda ES 3.5-inch disk drives ship in 7,200 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from 250GB to 2TB.
The Barracuda ES addresses the emerging market in enterprise storage using nearline storage systems for capacity-intensive enterprise applications that require space optimization, maximized
performance and availability. We have also introduced Barracuda ES drives for the surveillance market with capacities ranging from 250GB to 1TB.

Constellation ES SATA Family.Our Constellation disk drives ship in both 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch and in storage capacities of
up to 500GB to 2TB, respectively, at 7,200 RPM. The Constellation is designed for reference data environments that require high capacity density, enterprise reliability, low power consumption and
optional security.

Client Compute

Momentus ATA/SATA Family.Our Momentus family of disk drives for mobile computing disk drive products ship in 5,400 and 7,200 RPM and
in capacities
ranging from 80GB to 640GB. Momentus disk drives are used in notebooks for business, government, education and consumer applications. Consumer uses for Momentus disk drives also include tablet
computers and digital audio applications. Our Momentus









7200.4
is a 7,200 RPM disk drive for high-performance notebooks. In addition, we began shipping our new hybrid drive into the notebook market with the introduction of our Momentus XT
product line in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010. Hybrid disk drives incorporate both a hard disk drive and NAND flash storage. The benefits of such drives are improved performance over hard disk
drives, as well as higher capacity and lower cost compared to SSDs alone.

Barracuda ATA/SATA Family.Our Barracuda 3.5-inch disk drive delivers storage capacities of up to 2TB at 7,200 RPM and is designed for
applications such as PCs, workstations and personal external storage devices.

Client Non-Compute

Pipeline HD and DB35 SATA Family.We sell our 3.5-inch Pipeline HD and DB35 disk drives primarily for use in DVRs. These disk drives
are
optimized for leading-edge digital entertainment and range from 160GB to 1TB.

Pipeline Mini SATA Family.We sell our 2.5-inch, 5,400 RPM Pipeline Mini disk drives, with capacities ranging from 160GB up to 500GB,
for
use in low-profile DVRs, gaming consoles, home entertainment devices and small footprint media PCs.

We
ship external backup storage solutions under our Free Agent Go™ and Free Agent Go Flex™ product lines. Both of these product lines utilize our
3.5-inch and 2.5-inch disk drives, which are available in capacities up to 2TB and 750GB, respectively.

Customers

We sell our disk drives primarily to major OEMs. We also sell to distributors and retailers under our globally recognized brand
names. We have longstanding relationships with many of our OEM customers, such as Hewlett-Packard Company, Dell Inc. and EMC Corporation.

The
following table summarizes our disk drive revenue by channel and by geography:

Fiscal Years EndedJuly 2,2010July 3,2009June 27,2008Revenues by Channel (%)OEM71%64%67%Distributors21%27%26%Retail8%9%7%Revenues by Geography (%)Americas26%28%30%EMEA22%27%27%Asia Pacific52%45%43%

OEM
customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. These agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other
terms and conditions. The term of these agreements is usually 6 to 24 months; however they are generally cancelable for convenience by either party upon written notice. Our product support
obligations generally extend substantially beyond the term of the agreement. These master agreements typically do not commit the customer to buy any minimum quantity of products, or create exclusive
relationships. Deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. In addition, with limited lead-time, customers may cancel or defer most purchase orders without significant
penalty. Anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or OEM delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs.







Our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. They typically furnish us with a
non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. The agreements and related sales programs typically provide
the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. In addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected
products in the sales channel.

Our
retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. Retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require
greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods.

The
only customers exceeding 10% of our consolidated revenue for fiscal years 2008 through 2010 were Hewlett-Packard Company and Dell Inc., accounting for approximately 16% and
11%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue in each year. We have master purchase agreements in place with Hewlett-Packard Company and Dell Inc. that are cancelable for convenience by either
party upon written notice, and do not require either customer to purchase any minimum or other specified quantity of our products. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our
Business—Dependence on Key Customers—We may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers."

Competition

The markets that we compete in are intensely competitive. Disk drive manufacturers not only compete for a limited number of major disk
drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory, tape, optical and SSDs. Some of the
principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, price per unit and price per gigabyte, storage/retrieval access times,
data transfer rates, product quality and reliability, supply continuity, form factor, warranty and brand. We believe that our disk drive products are competitive with respect to each of these factors
in the markets that we currently address.

We
summarize below our principal disk drive competitors, other competitors, the effect of competition on price erosion for our products and product life cycles and technology.

Principal Disk Drive Competitors.

Other Competitors.We also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash
memory and SSDs.
In the flash memory market, primarily used in lower











capacity
handheld devices, our principal competitors include Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SanDisk Corporation and Toshiba Corporation. In enterprise
applications, where SSDs are used for rapid processing and high volume transactions, our principal SSD competitors include Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Intel Corporation and STEC Inc.,
with others expected to enter in the near future.

Price Erosion.Our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and
feature sets
("like-for-like products"). Price declines for like-for-like products ("price erosion") are more pronounced during periods
of:

•economic contraction or industry consolidation in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or
gain market share;•few new product introductions when multiple competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings;•temporary imbalances between industry supply and demand; and•seasonally weaker demand, which may cause excess supply.

Disk
drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature
sets and/or product cost reductions.

We
expect price erosion in our industry to continue. To remain competitive, we believe it is necessary for industry participants to continue to introduce new product offerings that
utilize advanced technologies ahead of the competition in order to take advantage of potentially higher initial profit margins and reduced cost structures on these new products.

Product Life Cycles and Changing Technology.Our industry has been characterized by significant advances in technology, which have
contributed to
rapid product life cycles. As a result, success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to be the first-to-market with new products, allowing those
disk drive manufacturers who introduce new products first to sell those products at a premium until comparable products are introduced. Also, because our industry is characterized by continuous price
erosion, the existence of rapid product life cycles has necessitated quick achievement of product cost effectiveness. Changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research
and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. Further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new
product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance.

Seasonality

The disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the
calendar year. This seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to
winter. In addition, corporate demand is typically higher during the second half of the calendar year. For most of fiscal year 2010, our industry observed a muted seasonal pattern as the hard disk
drive industry experienced unmet demand due to industry-wide supply constraints, while in the March 2010 quarter supply and demand were relatively balanced. However, in the June 2010
quarter, industry supply exceeded demand, which we believe reflected a return to seasonal patterns typical of a June quarter.

Research and Development

We are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies, including solid state
technology. Our research and development focus is designed to bring











new
products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. Part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or
subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. This platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes
in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. Our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems,
including read/write heads and recording media, market-specific product technology and technology focused towards new business opportunities. The primary purpose of our advanced technology integration
effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers
across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. During fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we had product development expenses of approximately $877 million,
$953 million and $1,028 million, respectively, which represented 8%, 10% and 8% of our consolidated revenue, respectively.

Patents and Licenses

As of July 2, 2010, we had 4,149 U.S. patents and 625 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as 1,232 U.S. and
478 foreign patent applications pending. The number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. Due to the rapid
technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets,
protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Accordingly, we
intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program.

The
electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. Because of rapid technological development in
the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. From time to time, we receive claims that our
products infringe patents of
third parties. Although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us,
other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. In addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and
results of operations. For more information on these claims, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13, Legal, Environmental, and Other Contingencies."
The costs of engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have been, and in the future may be, substantial, irrespective of the merits of the claim or the outcome. We have patent licenses
with a number of companies. Additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component
manufacturers with respect to patent licenses.

Backlog

In view of our customers' rights to cancel or defer orders with little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disk drive industry is
of limited indicative value in estimating future performance and results.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those
governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require
environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities.









We
have established environmental management systems and continually update our environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. We believe that our
operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. We budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws. If
additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures.

Some
environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the "Superfund" law) and its state equivalents, can impose
liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or
operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party at several
sites. At each of these sites, we have an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of
financially viable parties. We have fulfilled our responsibilities at some of these sites and remain involved in only a few at this time.

While
our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on our current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation of
these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these sites to be material.

We
may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic
products. For example, the European Union ("EU") enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, which prohibits the use of certain
substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives, put on the market after July 1, 2006. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in
the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan.

If
we or our suppliers fail to comply with the substance restrictions, recycle requirements or other environmental requirements as they are enacted worldwide, it could have a materially
adverse effect on our business.

Employees

At July 2, 2010, we employed approximately 52,600 employees, temporary employees and contractors worldwide, of which
approximately 45,000 employees were located in our Asian operations. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. We
believe that our employee relations are good.

Financial Information

Financial information for our reportable business segment and about geographic areas is set forth in "Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12, Business Segment and Geographic Information."

Corporate Information

We were formed in 2000 as an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands. On
July 3, 2010, we consummated our previously announced reorganization pursuant to which Seagate Technology public limited company, a public limited company organized under the laws of Ireland,
became the publicly traded parent of the Seagate corporate family.









Available Information

Availability of Reports.We are a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Exchange Act"),
and we file
reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The public may read and copy any of our filings at the SEC's Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
Because we make filings to the SEC electronically, you may access this information at the SEC's Internet site:www.sec.gov. This site contains reports,
proxies and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Web Site Access.Our Internet web site address iswww.seagate.com. We make available,
free of charge
at the "Investor Relations" portion of our web site, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with,
or furnish it to, the SEC. Reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to Section 16(a) of the 1934 Exchange Act are also available on our web site. Information in, or that can be accessed
through, our web site is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.

Executive Officers

The following sets forth the name, age and position of each of the persons who were serving as executive officers as of
August 13, 2010. There are no family relationships among any of our executive officers.

NameAgePositionsStephen J. Luczo53Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerPatrick J. O'Malley48Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerRobert W. Whitmore48Executive Vice President and Chief Technology OfficerWilliam D. Mosley43Executive Vice President, Sales and MarketingD. Kurt Richarz49Executive Vice President, SalesTerence R. Cunningham51Senior Vice President, i365Douglas DeHaan52Senior Vice President, Operations and MaterialsKenneth M. Massaroni49Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryDavid H. Morton Jr.38Vice President, Finance, Treasurer and Principal Accounting Officer

Stephen
J. Luczo, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Luczo, 53, has served as President and CEO since January 2009, and continues to serve as Chairman of the
Board. Mr. Luczo joined Seagate in October 1993 as Senior Vice President of Corporate Development. In September 1997, he was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer of our
predecessor, Seagate Technology, Inc. and, in July 1998, he was promoted to CEO at which time he joined the Board of Directors. He was appointed Chairman of the Board in 2002. Mr. Luczo
resigned as CEO effective as of July 3, 2004, but retained his position as Chairman of the Board. He served as non-employee Chairman from October 2006 to January 2009. From October
2006 until he joined us in January 2009, Mr. Luczo was a private investor. Prior to joining Seagate in 1993, Mr. Luczo was Senior Managing Director of the Global Technology Group of
Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., an investment banking firm, from February 1992 to October 1993.

Patrick
J. O'Malley, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. O'Malley, 48, has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2008.
Previously, he served as Senior Vice President, Finance from 2005 to August 2008, and assumed the additional roles of Principal Accounting Officer and Treasurer in 2006. Prior to that, he was Senior
Vice President, Consumer Electronics from 2004 to 2005; Senior Vice President, Finance, Manufacturing from 1999 to 2004; Vice President, Finance-Recording Media from 1997 to 1999; Senior Director
Finance, Desktop Design, from











to 1997; Senior Director, Finance, Oklahoma City Operations from 1994 to 1996; Director/Manager, Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis from 1991 to 1994; Manager, Consolidations &
Cost Accounting from 1990 to 1991; Manager, Consolidations from 1988 to 1990; and Senior Financial Analyst in 1988.

Robert
W. Whitmore, Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer. Mr. Whitmore, 48, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since 2007. Prior to
that he was Executive Vice President, Product and Process Development from 2006 to 2007; Senior Vice President, Product and Process Development from 2004 to 2006; Senior Vice President, Product
Development Engineering from 2002 to 2004; Vice President, Enterprise Storage Design Engineering from 1999 to 2002, Vice President and Executive Director, Twin Cities Manufacturing Operations from
1997 to 1999; Senior Director, Manufacturing Engineering, Singapore Operations from 1995 to 1997; and Senior Manager, Design Engineering, Twin Cities Division from 1992 to 1995.

William
D. Mosley, Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing. Mr. Mosley, 43, has served as Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing since September 2009. Prior to that,
he served as Executive Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Product Line Management from February 2009 to September 2009, Senior Vice President, Global Disk Storage Operations from 2007 to 2009; Vice
President, Research and Development, Engineering from 2002 to 2007; Senior Director, Research and Development, Engineering from 2000 to 2002; Director, Research and Development, Engineering from 1998
to 2000; and Manager, Operations and Manufacturing from 1996 to 1998.

D.
Kurt Richarz, Executive Vice President, Sales. Mr. Richarz, 49, joined Seagate in May 2006, when we acquired Maxtor Corporation. He has served as our Executive Vice President,
Sales since May 2008. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Sales and Customer Service Operations since from May 2006 to May 2008; Senior Vice President of Global OEM Sales from 2007 to 2008,
and Vice President of Global OEM Sales from 2006 to 2007. At Maxtor Corporation, from 2002 to 2006, he served as Vice President, Global OEM Account Sales and Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales.
From 1990 to 2001, he served in various sales positions at Quantum Corporation.

Terence
R. Cunningham, Senior Vice President, i365. Mr. Cunningham, 51, has served as our Senior Vice President of i365 since October 2009. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice
President, Branded Solutions and i365, from when he joined Seagate in March 2009 until September 2009. Mr. Cunningham served as the CEO of Coral8, Inc., a software company from 2003
until 2009, President and CEO of InfoGenesis, a hospitality focused software company from 2005 to 2006, and as Management Advisor and Investor of Rockbridge Consulting, Inc. from 1999 to 2003.
Prior to that, he served as President and COO of Veritas Software Corporation, and founded and led Seagate Software, Inc. He is a member of the Board of Directors of QAD, Inc., and
several private companies.

Douglas
DeHaan, Senior Vice President, Operations and Materials. Mr. DeHaan, 52, has been Senior Vice President, Operations and Materials since February 2009. Previously, he
served as Senior Vice President of Quality from 2008 to 2009, Senior Vice President, Enterprise Product Development from December 2006 to April 2008, Senior Vice President of Product and Process
Development, Core Products from 2003 to 2006, Senior Vice President Process Development and Product Launch from 2001 to 2003, Vice President, Seagate Factory of the Future Initiative from 1999 to
2001, Vice President, Twin Cities Manufacturing Operations from 1996 to 1999, Vice President, Singapore Operations from 1994 to 1996, and Senior Director, Manufacturing Engineering/Twin Cities
Operations from 1992 to 1994.

Kenneth
M. Massaroni, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Massaroni, 49, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
since April 2008. He served as Vice President and Acting General Counsel from December 2007 to April 2008, and Vice President of Intellectual Property from 2006 to December 2007. Prior to joining
Seagate in 2006, Mr. Massaroni was vice president of law, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary at Scientific-Atlanta Inc. from 1997 to 2006. In addition, Mr. Massaroni
has also held senior patent counsel positions at Motorola Inc. from 1993 to 1997, served as general counsel and secretary at Optical Imaging Systems, Inc.











from
1990 to 1992 and as a patent attorney at Energy Conversion Devices Inc. from 1987 to 1990, and as an associate at the law firm of Collier, Shannon, Rill and Scott from 1992 to 1993.

David
H. Morton Jr., Vice President, Finance, Treasurer and Principal Accounting Officer. Mr. Morton, 38, joined Seagate in 1995 and has served as our Vice President, Finance,
Treasurer and Principal Accounting Officer since October 2009. Prior to that, he served as our Vice President of Finance, Sales
and Marketing from March 2009 to October 2009; Vice President of Sales Operations from July 2007 to March 2009; Vice President of Finance, Storage Markets from October 2006 to July 2007; Executive
Director of Consumer Electronics Finance from October 2005 to October 2006; and Executive Director of Corporate FP&A from June 2004 to October 2005. Prior to June 2004, Mr. Morton held a
variety of progressively senior management positions within our Finance organization.









