
10-K
10-K



                                   FORM 10-K
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
/X/  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
 
                                       OR
 
/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                            ------------------------
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-10427
 
                         ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                DELAWARE                               94-1648752
    (State or other jurisdiction of                 (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)               Identification No.)
 
2884 SAND HILL ROAD, SUITE 200, MENLO PARK, CALIFORNIA    94025
       (Address of principal executive offices)         (Zip code)
 
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 854-9700
                            ------------------------
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
                                                      NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
               TITLE OF EACH CLASS                     ON WHICH REGISTERED
     Common Stock, Par Value $.001 per Share         New York Stock Exchange
         Preferred Share Purchase Rights             New York Stock Exchange
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
 
                                      None
                            ------------------------
 
    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the registrant  (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes _X_ No ____
 
    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/
 
    As  of March 7, 1996, the aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was  approximately $1,199,755,000 based on  the
closing  sale  price on  that date.  This  amount excludes  the market  value of
2,630,142 shares of Common Stock held by registrant's directors and officers and
their affiliates.
    As of  March  7, 1996,  there  were  outstanding 28,998,392  shares  of  the
registrant's Common Stock.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
    Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement to be mailed to stockholders in
connection with the registrant's annual meeting of stockholders, scheduled to be
held  in May  1996, are incorporated  by reference  in Part III  of this report.
Except as expressly incorporated by reference, the registrant's Proxy  Statement
shall not be deemed to be part of this report.

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
    Robert  Half International Inc. is  the world's largest specialized provider
of temporary and permanent  personnel in the fields  of accounting and  finance.
Its    divisions   include   ACCOUNTEMPS-Registered    Trademark-   and   ROBERT
HALF-Registered Trademark-,  providers  of temporary  and  permanent  personnel,
respectively,  in the fields  of accounting and  finance. The Company, utilizing
its experience as a specialized  provider of temporary and permanent  personnel,
has  expanded  into additional  specialty fields.  In  1991, the  Company formed
OFFICETEAM-Registered Trademark- to provide skilled temporary administrative and
office personnel. In 1994, the Company established RHI
CONSULTING-Registered Trademark-  to  concentrate  on  providing  temporary  and
contract  information  technology  professionals in  positions  ranging  from PC
support technician to chief information  officer. In 1992, the Company  acquired
THE  AFFILIATES-Registered Trademark-,  which focuses  on placing  temporary and
permanent employees in paralegal, legal  administrative and other legal  support
positions.
 
    The  Company's business was  originally founded in 1948.  Prior to 1986, the
Company was  primarily a  franchisor  of ACCOUNTEMPS  and ROBERT  HALF  offices.
Beginning in 1986, the Company and its current management embarked on a strategy
of  acquiring  franchised  locations  and other  local  or  regional independent
providers of specialized temporary service  personnel. The Company has  acquired
all  but  five of  the ACCOUNTEMPS  and  ROBERT HALF  franchises in  45 separate
transactions,  and  has  acquired  16  other  local  or  regional  providers  of
specialized   temporary  service   personnel.  Since   1986,  the   Company  has
significantly expanded  operations at  many of  the acquired  locations and  has
opened many new locations. The Company believes that direct ownership of offices
allows  it to better monitor and protect the image of the ACCOUNTEMPS and ROBERT
HALF names, promotes a more consistent  and higher level of quality and  service
throughout  its network  of offices  and improves  profitability by centralizing
many of its administrative  functions. The Company currently  has more than  185
offices in 36 states and five foreign countries and placed approximately 101,000
employees on temporary assignment with clients in 1995.
 
ACCOUNTEMPS
 
    The  ACCOUNTEMPS temporary services division offers customers a reliable and
economical means of dealing with uneven  or peak work loads for accounting,  tax
and  finance personnel  caused by such  predictable events  as vacations, taking
inventories, tax  work,  month-end  activities and  special  projects  and  such
unpredictable  events as  illness and emergencies.  Businesses increasingly view
the use of  temporary employees as  a means of  controlling personnel costs  and
converting  such costs  from fixed  to variable.  The cost  and inconvenience to
clients of hiring and  firing permanent employees are  eliminated by the use  of
ACCOUNTEMPS  temporaries. The temporary workers are employees of ACCOUNTEMPS and
are paid by ACCOUNTEMPS only when working on customer assignments. The  customer
pays a fixed rate only for hours worked.
 
    ACCOUNTEMPS  clients may fill  their permanent employment  needs by using an
ACCOUNTEMPS employee  on a  trial basis  and, if  so desired,  "converting"  the
temporary position to a permanent position. The client typically pays a one-time
fee for such conversions.
 
OFFICETEAM
 
    The  Company's  OFFICETEAM  division, which  commenced  operations  in 1991,
places temporary and permanent office and administrative personnel, ranging from
word processors to office managers, from over 135 locations in the United States
and Canada. OFFICETEAM operates in much the same fashion as the ACCOUNTEMPS  and
ROBERT HALF divisions.
 
ROBERT HALF
 
    The  Company offers permanent placement  services through its office network
under the name ROBERT  HALF. The Company's ROBERT  HALF division specializes  in
placing  accounting, financial, tax  and banking personnel.  Fees for successful
permanent placements  are  paid  only  by  the  employer  and  are  generally  a
percentage  of  the new  employee's annual  compensation.  No fee  for permanent
placement services is charged to employment candidates.
 

RHI CONSULTING
 
    The Company's RHI CONSULTING division,  which commenced operations in  1994,
specializes  in providing  information technology contract  consultants in areas
ranging  from  multiple  platform  systems  integration  to  end-user   support,
including  specialists in programming, networking, systems integration, database
design and help  desk support. RHI  Consulting conducts its  activities from  38
locations in the United States, Canada and Europe.
 
THE AFFILIATES
 
    In  1992, the Company  acquired THE AFFILIATES,  a small operation involving
only a limited number of offices, which places temporary and permanent employees
in paralegal, legal  administrative and legal  secretarial positions. The  legal
profession's   requirements   (the  need   for  confidentiality,   accuracy  and
reliability,  a  strong  drive  toward  cost-effectiveness,  and  frequent  peak
workload  periods) are similar to the demands  of the clients of the ACCOUNTEMPS
division.
 
MARKETING AND RECRUITING
 
    The  Company  markets  its  services  to  clients  as  well  as   employment
candidates.  Local  marketing and  recruiting  are generally  conducted  by each
office or  related  group  of  offices.  Advertising  directed  to  clients  and
employment   candidates  consists  primarily  of  yellow  pages  advertisements,
classified advertisements and radio. Direct marketing through mail and telephone
solicitation also  constitutes  a significant  portion  of the  Company's  total
advertising. National advertising conducted by the Company consists primarily of
print  advertisements  in  national  newspapers,  magazines  and  certain  trade
journals. Joint marketing  arrangements have been  entered into with  Microsoft,
Lotus  Development  Corporation,  WordPerfect  Corporation,  Peachtree Software,
Inc., and  Computer Associates  International, Inc.  and typically  provide  for
cooperative  advertising, joint mailings and similar promotional activities. The
Company also  actively seeks  endorsements  and affiliations  with  professional
organizations in the business management, office administration and professional
secretarial  fields.  The  Company  also  conducts  public  relations activities
designed to enhance public  recognition of the Company  and its services.  Local
employees  are encouraged to be active in civic organizations and industry trade
groups.
 
    The Company owns  many trademarks, service  marks and tradenames,  including
the   ROBERT  HALF-Registered   Trademark-,  ACCOUNTEMPS-Registered  Trademark-,
OFFICETEAM-Registered Trademark-, THE  AFFILIATES-Registered Trademark- and  RHI
CONSULTING-Registered  Trademark-  marks,  which are  registered  in  the United
States and in a number of foreign countries.
 
ORGANIZATION
 
    Management of the Company's operations is coordinated from its  headquarters
in  Menlo  Park, California.  The  Company's headquarters  provides  support and
centralized  services  to   its  offices  in   the  administrative,   marketing,
accounting,  training  and  legal  areas,  particularly  as  it  relates  to the
standardization of the operating procedures of its offices. The Company has more
than 185 offices in  36 states and five  foreign countries. Office managers  are
responsible  for  most  activities  of  their  offices,  including  sales, local
advertising and marketing and recruitment.
 
COMPETITION
 
    The Company faces competition in its  efforts to attract clients as well  as
high-quality  specialized  employment  candidates. The  temporary  and permanent
placement businesses are  highly competitive,  with a number  of firms  offering
services  similar to those  provided by the  Company on a  national, regional or
local basis. In many  areas the local companies  are the strongest  competitors.
The  most  significant  competitive  factors  in  the  temporary  and  permanent
placement businesses are price and the reliability of service, both of which are
often a  function of  the availability  and quality  of personnel.  The  Company
believes  it derives a  competitive advantage from its  long experience with and
commitment to the specialized employment market, its national presence, and  its
various marketing activities.
 

EMPLOYEES
 
    The Company has approximately 2,100 full-time staff employees. The Company's
offices  placed approximately  101,000 employees  on temporary  assignments with
clients during 1995. Temporary employees placed by the Company are the Company's
employees for all purposes  while they are working  on assignments. The  Company
pays  the related costs of employment,  such as workers' compensation insurance,
state and  federal  unemployment  taxes,  social  security  and  certain  fringe
benefits. The Company provides voluntary health insurance coverage to interested
temporary employees.
 
OTHER INFORMATION
 
    The  Company's current business constitutes  a single business segment. (See
Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data for financial  information
about the Company.)
 
    The  Company is not dependent upon a  single customer or a limited number of
customers. The Company's operations are generally  more active in the first  and
fourth  quarters of a calendar  year. Order backlog is  not a material aspect of
the Company's business  and no  material portion  of the  Company's business  is
subject  to  government  contracts.  The  Company  does  not  have  any material
expenditures for research  and development.  Compliance with  federal, state  or
local  environmental  protection  laws has  no  material effect  on  the capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company.
 
    Information about foreign  operations is  contained in  Note N  of Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements in  Item 8. The Company  does not have export
sales.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
    The Company's headquarters is located  in Menlo Park, California.  Placement
activities  are conducted  through more than  185 offices located  in the United
States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Belgium, France and the Netherlands. All  of
the offices are leased.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
    The  Company is not a party to  any material pending legal proceedings other
than routine litigation incidental to its business.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
    No matter was submitted to a  vote of the Company's security holders  during
the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.
 

                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
    The  Company's Common  Stock is  listed for  trading on  the New  York Stock
Exchange under the  symbol "RHI".  On March  7, 1996,  there were  approximately
1,487 holders of record of the Common Stock.
 
    Following  is a list by fiscal quarters of  the sales prices of the stock as
quoted on the New York Stock Exchange, adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect  the
two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend in August 1994:

 
    No  cash  dividends were  paid in  1995 or  1994. The  Company, as  it deems
appropriate, may continue to retain all earnings for use in its business or  may
consider paying a dividend in the future.
 

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
    Following  is a table of selected financial  data of the Company of the last
five years:

 
    All shares and per share amounts have been restated to retroactively reflect
the two-for-one stock split effected in the  form of a stock dividend in  August
1994.
 

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
 
    Temporary  services revenues increased 42% during  1995 and 46% during 1994,
including  the  revenues  generated  from  the  Company's  OfficeTeam  and   RHI
Consulting  divisions,  which  were  started  in  1991  and  1994, respectively.
Permanent placement revenues increased  31% during the  year ended December  31,
1995  and 47% during the  year ended December 31,  1994. The revenue comparisons
reflect continued improvement in the demand for the Company's services.
 
    Gross margin dollars increased 41% during  the year ended December 31,  1995
compared  to 47%  for the  year ended  December 31,  1994. Gross  margin amounts
equaled 39% of revenue in 1995, 1994 and 1993.
 
    Selling, general and administrative expenses were approximately $171 million
during 1995 compared to $122 million in  1994 and $88 million in 1993.  Selling,
general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 27% in 1995
and  1994 and 29% in 1993. The  percentage decline from 1993 was attributable to
revenue growth coupled with the Company's continued cost containment.
 
    Amortization of intangible  assets increased from  1993 to 1995  due to  the
acquisitions in each of those years of additional personnel services operations.
 
    Interest  income/expense  for the  years ended  December  31, 1995  and 1994
decreased 130% and 61%, respectively, over  the comparable prior periods due  to
an increase in interest income from an increase in cash and cash equivalents and
a decrease in interest expense due to a reduction of outstanding indebtedness.
 
    The provision for income taxes was 42% in 1995 and 1994 and 46% in 1993. The
decrease  in  1994  is the  result  of  a smaller  percentage  of non-deductible
intangible expenses.
 
    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
    The change in the Company's liquidity during the past three years is the net
effect of funds  generated by operations  and the funds  used for the  personnel
services  acquisitions, capital expenditures,  principal payments on outstanding
notes payable, and the securities repurchase program.
 
    In November 1994, the Company issued 633,555 shares of its common stock. The
net proceeds  from the  sale of  shares were  approximately $12.6  million.  The
Company  used the proceeds  for repayment of the  borrowings under the Company's
revolving credit agreement.
 
    On December  10,  1993,  substantially  all  of  the  Company's  outstanding
convertible  subordinated  debentures were  converted into  common stock  of the
Company. See Note F in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
    The  Company's  working  capital  requirements  consist  primarily  of   the
financing  of  accounts receivable.  While there  can be  no assurances  in this
regard, the  Company  expects  that  internally generated  cash  plus  the  bank
revolving line of credit will be sufficient to support the working capital needs
of  the  Company's offices,  the Company's  fixed  payments and  other long-term
obligations.
 

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
                ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
                      (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
          The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                   are an integral part of these statements.
 

                ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
1994 and 1993 per share amounts have been restated to retroactively reflect the
two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend in August 1994.
 
          The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                   are an integral part of these statements.
 

                ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
     1994 and 1993 amounts have been restated to retroactively reflect the
two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend in August 1994.
 
          The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                   are an integral part of these statements.
 

                ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
          The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                   are an integral part of these statements.
 

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE A -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
    NATURE  OF  OPERATIONS.    Robert Half  International  Inc.  (the "Company")
provides   specialized   staffing   services    through   such   divisions    as
Accountemps-Registered    Trademark-,    Robert    Half-Registered   Trademark-,
OfficeTeam-Registered Trademark- and  RHI Consulting-Registered Trademark-.  The
Company,  through  its Accountemps  and Robert  Half  divisions, is  the world's
largest specialized provider of temporary and permanent personnel in the  fields
of   accounting  and  finance.  OfficeTeam   specializes  in  skilled  temporary
administrative  personnel  and  RHI  Consulting  provides  contract  information
technology  professionals. Revenues  are predominantly  from temporary services.
The Company operates in the United States,  Canada and Europe. The Company is  a
Delaware corporation.
 
    PRINCIPLES  OF CONSOLIDATION.  The Consolidated Financial Statements include
the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned.
All  significant   intercompany   balances   have   been   eliminated.   Certain
reclassifications  have been made  to the 1994 and  1993 financial statements to
conform to the 1995 presentation.
 
    REVENUE RECOGNITION.   Temporary services revenues  are recognized when  the
services  are rendered by the Company's temporary employees. Permanent placement
revenues are recognized  when employment candidates  accept offers of  permanent
employment.  Allowances  are  established  to  estimate  losses  due  to  placed
candidates not  remaining  in employment  for  the Company's  guarantee  period,
typically 90 days.
 
    CASH  AND  CASH  EQUIVALENTS.    The  Company  considers  all  highly liquid
investments  with  an  original  maturity  of  three  months  or  less  as  cash
equivalents.
 
    INTANGIBLE  ASSETS.    Intangible  assets  represent  the  cost  of acquired
companies in excess of  the fair market  value of their  net tangible assets  at
acquisition date, and are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a period
of 40 years. The carrying value of intangible assets is periodically reviewed by
the  Company and impairments  are recognized when  the expected future operating
cash flows  derived from  such intangible  assets is  less than  their  carrying
value.  Based  upon  its most  recent  analysis,  the Company  believes  that no
material impairment of intangible assets exists at December 31, 1995.
 
    INCOME TAXES.  Deferred taxes are  computed based on the difference  between
the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using the
enacted marginal tax rate.
 
    FOREIGN  CURRENCY TRANSLATION.   The results of  operations of the Company's
foreign subsidiaries  are  translated  at the  monthly  average  exchange  rates
prevailing  during the period.  The financial position  of the Company's foreign
subsidiaries are translated  at the  current exchange rates  at the  end of  the
period,  and  the  related  translation  adjustments  are  recorded  as  part of
Stockholders'  Equity.  Gains  and   losses  resulting  from  foreign   currency
transactions are included in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
    USE  OF ESTIMATES.   The preparation  of financial  statements in conformity
with generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect the  reported  amounts  of  assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets  and liabilities at the date  of
the  financial  statements and  the reported  amounts  of revenues  and expenses
during the reporting period.
 
NOTE B -- ACQUISITIONS
    In July 1986, the  Company acquired all of  the outstanding stock of  Robert
Half Incorporated, the franchisor of the Accountemps and Robert Half operations.
Subsequently,  in  61  separate transactions  the  Company acquired  all  of the
outstanding  stock   of   certain   corporations   operating   Accountemps   and
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE B -- ACQUISITIONS (CONTINUED)
Robert  Half franchised  offices in  the United  States, the  United Kingdom and
Canada as well  as other  personnel services  businesses. The  Company has  paid
approximately $196 million in cash, stock, notes and other indebtedness in these
acquisitions, excluding transaction costs and cash acquired.
 
    These  acquisitions were accounted for as  purchases, and the excess of cost
over the  fair  market  value of  the  net  tangible assets  acquired  is  being
amortized over 40 years using the straight-line method. Results of operations of
the  acquired companies  are included in  the Consolidated  Statements of Income
from the dates of acquisition. The acquisitions made during 1995 and 1994 had no
material pro forma impact on the results of operations.
 
NOTE C -- NOTES PAYABLE AND OTHER INDEBTEDNESS
    The Company issued promissory notes as  well as other forms of  indebtedness
in  connection with certain acquisitions. These are due in varying installments,
carry varying interest rates and in aggregate amounted to $5,725,000 at December
31, 1995 and $4,214,000 at December  31, 1994. At December 31, 1995,  $1,350,000
of  the  notes was  secured by  a standby  letter  of credit  (see Note  D). The
following table shows  the schedule of  maturities for notes  payable and  other
indebtedness at December 31, 1995 (in thousands):
 

 
    At  December 31,  1995, all  of the  notes carried  fixed rates  of interest
ranging from 4.1% to 13.3%. The weighted average interest rate for the above was
approximately 7.3%, 8.2% and 11.1% for  the years ended December 31, 1995,  1994
and 1993, respectively.
 
NOTE D -- BANK LOAN (REVOLVING CREDIT)
    The  bank loan  is an  unsecured credit  facility which  provides a  line of
credit of up to  $80,000,000, which is available  to fund the Company's  general
business  and working capital needs, including  acquisitions and the purchase of
the Company's common stock,  and to cover the  issuance of debt support  standby
letters of credit up to $15,000,000.
 
    As  of December 31, 1995 and 1994, the Company had no borrowings on the line
of credit outstanding  and had used  $3,408,000 and $3,358,000  in debt  support
standby letters of credit, respectively. There is a commitment fee on the unused
portion  of the entire credit  facility of .25%. The  loan is subject to certain
financial covenants which also affect the interest rates charged.
 
    The credit facility  has the following  scheduled reduction in  availability
(in thousands):
 

 
    The final maturity date for the credit facility is August 31, 2001.
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE E -- CURRENT LIABILITIES
    Other  current liabilities included in accrued  payroll costs consist of the
following at December 31, 1995 and 1994 (in thousands):
 

 
NOTE F -- CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES
    On August  6, 1987,  the  Company issued  $74,750,000 of  7.25%  Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures (the "Convertible Debentures").  Prior to 1993, all but
$22,745,000 of  the  Convertible  Debentures were  repurchased  by  the  Company
pursuant  to its repurchase  program. The Convertible  Debentures were unsecured
obligations of the  Company with an  original maturity date  of August 1,  2012.
Interest was payable semi-annually as of February 1 and August 1 of each year to
the registered holders as of the preceding January 15 and July 15, respectively.
The  Convertible Debentures were redeemable at  the Company's option at any time
on or after August 1, 1990, at declining redemption prices.
 
    In December  1993,  the  Company  called for  redemption  all  of  its  then
outstanding  Convertible Debentures. Holders of  $22,440,000 in principal amount
elected to convert their debentures into 2.04 million shares of common stock  at
the  conversion price of  $11.00 per share. The  remaining $305,000 in principal
amount of Convertible Debentures was redeemed at 102.9% of the principal  amount
plus accrued interest.
 
NOTE G -- STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
    On  June  27, 1994,  the  stockholders of  the  Company voted  to  amend the
certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of  the
Company's  common stock from 30,000,000 to  100,000,000 shares and the number of
authorized shares of the  Company's preferred stock  from 500,000 to  5,000,000.
The stockholders of the Company also authorized a reduction in par value from $1
per share to $.001 per share on both classes of shares.
 
    In  August 1994, the Company effected a  two-for-one stock split in the form
of a  stock dividend.  1994  and 1993  share and  per  share amounts  have  been
restated to retroactively reflect the two-for-one stock split.
 
    In November 1994, the Company issued 633,555 shares of its common stock at a
price  of $21.25  per share.  The net  proceeds from  the sale  of shares (after
deducting issuance  costs  of  approximately $355,000  and  a  4%  underwriter's
discount) were approximately $12.6 million.
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE H -- INCOME TAXES
 
The  provisions for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and
1993 consisted of the following (in thousands):
 

 
    The income taxes shown  above varied from the  statutory federal income  tax
rates for these periods as follows:
 

 
    The  deferred portion of  the tax provisions consisted  of the following (in
thousands):
 

 
    The net  deferred  income  tax  liability shown  on  the  balance  sheet  is
comprised of the following (in thousands):
 

 
    No  valuation allowances against  deferred tax assets  were required for the
years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994.
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE H -- INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    The components of the net deferred income tax liability at December 31, 1995
and 1994, were as follows (in thousands):
 

 
NOTE I -- COMMITMENTS
    Rental expense,  primarily for  office  premises, amounted  to  $11,027,000,
$9,183,000  and $8,457,000 for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. The approximate minimum rental commitments for 1996 and thereafter
under non-cancelable leases in effect at  December 31, 1995, are as follows  (in
thousands):
 

 
NOTE J -- STOCK PLANS
    Under  various stock  plans, officers,  employees and  outside directors may
receive grants of restricted stock or  options to purchase common stock.  Grants
are  made  at the  discretion  of the  Compensation  Committee of  the  Board of
Directors. Grants vest between four to seven years.
 
    Options granted under  the plans have  exercise prices ranging  from 85%  to
100%  of the  fair market  value of the  Company's common  stock at  the date of
grant, consist of both  incentive stock options  and nonstatutory stock  options
under the Internal Revenue Code, and generally have a term of ten years.
 
    Recipients  of restricted  stock do  not pay  any cash  consideration to the
Company for the shares, have the right to vote all shares subject to such grant,
and receive all dividends with respect to such shares, whether or not the shares
have vested.
 
    As of December 31, 1995, the total number of available shares to grant under
the plans (consisting of either restricted stock or options) was 559,714.
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
 
NOTE J -- STOCK PLANS (CONTINUED)
 
    The  following table reflects activity under all stock plans from January 1,
1993 through December 31, 1995, and the exercise prices:
 

 
    As of  December 31,  1995, an  aggregate of  1,208,798 options  to  purchase
common stock were vested.
 
NOTE K -- PREFERRED SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS
    Pursuant to the Company's stockholder rights agreement, each share of common
stock  carries one right to  purchase one two-hundredth of  a share of preferred
stock. The rights become exercisable in certain limited circumstances  involving
a  potential business combination transaction or an acquisition of shares of the
Company and  are  exercisable  at  a  price of  $32.50  per  right,  subject  to
adjustment.  Following certain other events after the rights become exercisable,
each right entitles its holder to purchase for $32.50 an amount of common  stock
of the Company, or, in certain circumstances, securities of the acquiror, having
a then-current market value of twice the exercise price of the right. The rights
are  redeemable and may  be amended at  the Company's option  before they become
exercisable. Until a right is exercised, the holder of a right has no rights  as
a stockholder of the Company. The rights expire on July 23, 2000.
 
NOTE L -- INCOME PER SHARE
    Income  per fully diluted share has been computed using the weighted average
number of shares  of fully  diluted common  stock and  common stock  equivalents
outstanding during each period (29,708,000, 28,484,000 and 25,260,000 shares for
the  years ending  December 31, 1995,  1994 and 1993,  respectively). An assumed
conversion of the Convertible Debentures was not dilutive to income per share in
1993 (see Note E).
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE M -- QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
    The following tabulation shows certain quarterly financial data for 1995 and
1994 (in thousands, except per share amounts):

 
NOTE N -- SEGMENT REPORTING
    Information about the Company's operations in different geographic locations
for each of  the three years  in the period  ended December 31,  1995, is  shown
below.  The Company's areas  of operations outside of  the United States include
Canada, the  United  Kingdom,  Belgium, France  and  the  Netherlands.  Revenues
represent  total net  revenues from  the respective  geographic areas. Operating
income is net revenues less operating costs and expenses pertaining to  specific
geographic  areas. Foreign operating income reflects charges for U.S. management
fees and amortization of  intangible assets of  $992,000, $956,000 and  $917,000
for  the years  ended December 31,  1995, 1994 and  1993, respectively. Domestic
operating income reflects charges for amortization of intangibles of $4,307,000,
$4,137,000 and $3,841,000 for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and  1993,
respectively.  Identifiable assets are those assets used in the geographic areas
and are after elimination of intercompany balances.
 

 

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
TO THE STOCKHOLDERS AND THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC.:
 
    We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  statements  of  financial
position  of  Robert  Half  International  Inc.  (a  Delaware  corporation)  and
subsidiaries as of  December 31,  1995 and  1994, and  the related  consolidated
statements  of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1995. These financial statements are  the
responsibility  of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
    We conducted  our  audits in  accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles used  and  significant estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
    In our opinion, the financial  statements referred to above present  fairly,
in  all material respects,  the financial position  of Robert Half International
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period  ended
December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
San Francisco, California
January 26, 1996
 

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
    None.
 
                                    PART III
 
    The  information required by Items 10 through 13 of Part III is incorporated
by  reference  from  the  registrant's  Proxy  Statement,  under  the   captions
"NOMINATION   AND   ELECTION  OF   DIRECTORS,"  "BENEFICIAL   STOCK  OWNERSHIP,"
"COMPENSATION  OF   DIRECTORS,"  "COMPENSATION   OF  EXECUTIVE   OFFICERS"   AND
"COMPENSATION   COMMITTEE  INTERLOCKS  AND  INSIDER  PARTICIPATION  AND  CERTAIN
TRANSACTIONS,"  which  Proxy  Statement  will  be  mailed  to  stockholders   in
connection  with  the  registrant's  annual  meeting  of  stockholders  which is
scheduled to be held in May 1996.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(A) 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
    The following  consolidated  financial statements  of  the Company  and  its
    subsidiaries are included in Item 8 of this report:
 
        Consolidated  statements of financial position  at December 31, 1995 and
        1994.
 
        Consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 1995,
        1994 and 1993.
 
        Consolidated statements  of stockholders'  equity  for the  years  ended
        December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993.
 
        Consolidated  statements of cash flows for  the years ended December 31,
        1995, 1994 and 1993.
 
        Notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
    Report of independent public accountants.
 
    Selected quarterly financial data for the years ended December 31, 1995  and
    1994 are set forth in Note M - Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) included
    in Item 8 of this report.
 
    2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
        Schedules I through V have been omitted as they are not applicable.
 
    3.  EXHIBITS
 

 


 


 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
            The  Registrant  did not  file any  reports on  Form 8-K  during the
    fiscal quarter ending December 31, 1995.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC.
                                                    (Registrant)
 
Date: March 25, 1996                      By:        /S/ M. KEITH WADDELL
 
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                      M. Keith Waddell
                                                Senior Vice President, Chief
                                                          Financial
                                                    Officer and Treasurer
                                                (Principal Financial Officer)
 

    Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 






