Item 1.Business



Overview

Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company”), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a measurement company providing core electronic design and test solutions to communications and electronics industries. We provide electronic measurement instruments and systems and related software, software design tools, and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity, application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle.

On November 1, 2014, Keysight became an independent publicly-traded company through the distribution by Agilent Technologies Inc. ("Agilent") of 100 percent of the outstanding common stock of Keysight to Agilent's shareholders (the "Separation"). Each Agilent shareholder of record as of the close of business on October 22, 2014 received one share of Keysight common stock for every two shares of Agilent common stock held on the record date.Approximately 167 million shares of Keysight common stock were distributed on November 1, 2014 to Agilent shareholders. Keysight'sRegistration Statement on Form 10 was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on October 6, 2014. Keysight's common stock began trading "regular-way" under the ticker symbol "KEYS" on the New York Stock Exchange on November 3, 2014.

After separation, we reorganized our business into two operating segments, the measurement solutions segment and customer support and services segment.  The measurement solutions segment consists of businesses that sell hardware and software products including Radio Frequency ("RF"), microwave, digital and other design and test technology solutions. The customer support and services segment consists of businesses that provide repair and calibration services for our customers' installed base of instruments and facilitates the resale of refurbished used equipment.

On August 13, 2015, we acquired all share capital of Anite, for a cash purchase price of $558 million, net of $43 million cash acquired. Anite is a U.K.-based global company with strong software expertise and a leading supplier of wireless test solutions. This acquisition strengthens our wireless software design and test portfolio and its Network Test business expands our served addressable market. Coupled with Keysight's expertise in helping customers design and test hardware, we can now provide customers with more comprehensive wireless hardware and software solutions. Anite’s Network Test business will also enable us to provide innovative solutions that help customers deliver an outstanding experience for mobile users in the network. Keysight funded the acquisition using existing cash.



We have a comprehensive sales strategy that uses our direct sales force, distributors, resellers and manufacturer's representatives. The strategy varies based on the size of customer, the complexity of products and geographical coverage. We generated $2.9 billion of net revenue in fiscal year 2015, 2014 and 2013. Of our total net revenue of $2.9 billion for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015, we generated 35 percent in the United States and 65 percent outside the United States. As of October 31, 2015, we employed approximately 10,250 people worldwide. Our primary research and development and manufacturing sites are in California and Colorado in the United States and outside of the United States in China, Germany, Great Britain, India, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and Spain.











Net revenue, income from operations and assets by business segment as of and for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 are shown in Note 21, "Segment Information," to our combined and consolidated financial statements, which we incorporate by reference herein.

We had approximately 15,500 direct customers for our products and services in fiscal year 2015 and greater than 30,000 customers including indirect channels. No single customer represented a material amount of our net revenue. Many of our customers acquire products and services across both of our segments.

Strategies

With a singular focus on electronic design and test, we help our customers bring breakthrough electronic products to market faster and at a lower cost. Our research and development investments focus on our customers' design and test challenges, from simulation to design validation to manufacturing and optimization. Market and customer opportunities are driven by the need for faster data rates and new form factors, and by evolving technology standards.

•Invest in new wireless communication measurement solutions.We are investing in the development of new wireless communications test solutions to satisfy the market which is being driven by the explosive growth in mobile data and evolving wireless standards. The acquisition of Anite strengthens our wireless software design and test portfolio and its Network Test business expands our served addressable market.

•Invest in modular solutions.The market for modular solutions is expected to grow faster than the overall electronic measurement market.  We are investing to leverage our strength in feature-rich instrumentation into a portfolio of modular measurement solutions.

•Enhance and expand software solutions.An increasing percentage of measurement science and functionality is delivered through software solutions. Our portfolio of software solutions and software productivity tools is extensive and represents a significant corporate asset. We will continue to invest in software development to capitalize on its growth potential.

•Grow the services business.Services is a new growth initiative with significant potential. Our focus on growing services through multi-vendor calibration and asset management builds upon a strong foundation of repair and calibration services and refurbished used equipment sales.

Strengths

Our Electronic Measurement Business originated in 1939. Our legacy encompasses more than 75 years of innovation, measurement science expertise and deep customer relationships. We do business with most Fortune 1000 companies that are developing electronic products. The following strengths are significant:



Technology Leadership as a Competitive Differentiator:Proprietary software and hardware technologies unavailable on the commercial market and developed by our thirteen R&D centers around the world, enable many Keysight products to deliver the best design and measurement solution capability available for our customers’ engineering requirements. Built on an intellectual property foundation developed over a 30 year period, Keysight’s Electronic Design Automation computer aided design software for radio and microwave frequency designs is the premiere tool used by over two-thirds of the world’s engineers doing design work in this field. Some of Keysight’s hardware technologies are designed and manufactured in our own in-house integrated circuit fabrication facilities which were purpose-built and optimized to deliver unmatched capabilities across the broad portfolio of Keysight instruments. Once developed, these technologies can be deployed into multiple instrument form factors which include the Feature Rich Box or Bench Top instruments, modular instruments and handheld portable instruments. For Keysight, deploying technology across all the instrument form factors provides multiple revenue streams from a single technology investment. The result is that Keysight is recognized as being the product leader in four core engineering instrumentation categories; RF and Microwave Design Simulation software, Network Analyzers, Signal Analyzers, and Signal Sources.

Broad Portfolio of Solutions to Address Customer Needs:We believe we have the broadest portfolio of electronic measurement products in the industry.  Our hardware product portfolio spans many technologies, price points and form factors. We address time and frequency domain applications with RF, microwave, high-speed digital and general instrumentation. In addition, we have a broad portfolio of software products including Electronic Design Automation software for RF and high-speed digital design, hundreds of measurement application solutions to help customers make specific measurements quickly and consistently, and software tools for programming. We were recognized in December 2014 with the 2014 Global Frost & Sullivan Award for Market Leadership in Instrumentation Software for capturing the highest market share within the industry. We were recognized in September 2015 with the Global Frost & Sullivan Global Electronics Test Systems in Automotive Price/Performance Value Leadership 2015. We were also recognized with the 2015 Global Frost & Sullivan Award for Growth Excellence Leadership in the digital oscilloscope market in December 2015.









Industry Leading Commitment to Product Quality and Reliability:We believe we have a reputation in the industry for high quality and high reliability electronic measurement instrumentation and software.  This reputation for quality is supported by a three-year instrument warranty. Ensuring quality and reliability is an integral part of our new product development processes.

Large Installed Base:We have a large installed base of equipment because of the breadth of our product portfolio and our long history of producing high-performance and high-quality products. This installed base enables a strong and growing Customer Support and Services organization that provides a wide range of calibration and repair services, on both a per incident and contract basis, and provides a significant source of loyal customers for future sales.

Sales Channel with Global Reach:We have a worldwide and comprehensive sales channel. We have experienced management teams and highly technical sales and application engineers in all parts of the world, including a strong local presence in emerging markets. Our sales channel strategy is segmented by customer size, customer location and product characteristics. We deploy a direct sales organization for medium and large targeted accounts, and focus our direct sales efforts on higher performance products that require configuration and application-specific information. Approximately 76 percent of our business comes from customer interactions with our direct sales organization. To ensure broad geographic coverage and wide availability of our general purpose products, we maintain a network of over 600 channel partners to complement our direct sales force.

Centralized Order Fulfillment:Our order fulfillment organization allows us to leverage the scale and scope of our business to provide high-quality, market-leading instrument solutions to our customers while generating competitive gross margins. Our Penang, Malaysia site is our largest manufacturing facility, with a proven track record of operational excellence, technology capability and quality. We have an established network of suppliers and subcontractors, especially in Asia, that complements our in-house capabilities.

Business Model:Our operating model incorporates a substantial amount of cost structure flexibility with the intent to be materially profitable across the business cycle. Our variable compensation programs, sales channel strategy and the outsourced components of our supply chain have been implemented to improve the flexibility of our cost structure.



Measurement Solutions Business

Our measurement solutions business provides electronic measurement instruments and systems and related software and software design tools that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment.  We provide start‑up assistance, consulting, optimization and application support throughout the customer’s product lifecycle.

We employed approximately 9,050 people as of October 31, 2015 in our measurement solutions business.  This business generated revenue of $2.5 billion in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013.

Measurement Solutions Markets

Our electronic design and test solutions serve the following three markets:

Communications Market

We market our electronic design and test solutions to network equipment manufacturers (“NEMs”), wireless device manufacturers, and communications service providers, including the component manufacturers within the supply chain for these customers. Growth in mobile data traffic and increasing complexity in semiconductors and components are drivers of test demand across the communications market.

NEMs manufacture and sell products to facilitate the transmission of voice, data and video traffic.  The NEMs’ customers are communications service providers that deploy and operate the networks and services, as well as distribute end‑user subscriber devices, including wireless personal communication devices and set‑top boxes. To meet their customers’ demands, NEMs require test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production and installation of each network technology.

Wireless device manufacturers require design and test solutions for the design, development, manufacture and repair of mobile devices. These mobile devices are used for voice, data and video delivery to individuals who connect wirelessly to the service provider’s network. The device manufacturers’ primary customers are large and small service providers and consumers who purchase devices directly from retailers. Wireless device manufacturers require design and test solutions that enable technology development in conformance with the latest communications standards.

Communications service providers require reliable network equipment that enables new service offerings and allows their networks to operate at ever‑increasing capacities. To achieve this, communications service providers require a range of sophisticated









test instruments and systems to ensure conformance to communication standards and network requirements and to evaluate network performance.

Component manufacturers design, develop and manufacture electronic components and modules used in network equipment and wireless devices. The component manufacturers require test and measurement products to verify that the performance of their components and modules meets the specifications of their NEM and device customers.

Aerospace and Defense Market

We market our electronic design and test solutions to manufacturers and research facilities within the aerospace and defense industries.  This market includes commercial and government customers and their contracted suppliers.  The modernizations of satellite, radar and surveillance systems worldwide are drivers of test demand within the aerospace and defense market.

Government customers include departments or ministries of defense and related agencies around the world.  Contractors support the government and commercial customers by providing design and manufacturing capabilities for a variety of programs. We also sell to sub‑contractors and component manufacturers within the supply chain.

Customers use our electronic measurement instruments to develop and manufacture a wide variety of electronic components and systems used in aerospace and defense industries including commercial and military aircraft, space, satellite, radar, intelligence and surveillance.  Customers test the electrical parameters of RF, microwave frequency and digital components and assemblies, final products and large systems containing multiple electronic instruments.

Industrial, Computer and Semiconductor Market

We market our electronic design and test solutions to customers with significant electronic content within the industrial, computer and semiconductor test market. These industries design, develop and manufacture a wide range of products, including those produced in high volumes, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic components, consumer electronics, enterprise servers, storage networks and automotive electronics.  The components, printed circuit assemblies and functional devices for these products may be designed, developed and manufactured by electronic components companies, by original equipment manufacturers or by contract manufacturers.  Other industrial applications for products include power, energy, medical, research and education.

Customers use test solutions in developing and manufacturing a wide variety of electronic components and systems. These customers’ test requirements include testing the electrical parameters of digital, radio frequency, and microwave frequency components and assemblies; testing multiple parameters of the printed circuit boards used in almost every electronic device; testing of the final product; and testing of systems containing multiple electronic instruments. For semiconductor and board test applications, customers use our solutions in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment, and operation of semiconductor and printed circuit assemblies.

Measurement Solutions Products

Our electronic design and test solutions include RF and microwave instruments, digital instruments and various other general purpose test instruments and targeted test solutions.  We offer these products and related software in a variety of form factors, including benchtop, modular and handheld, depending on the specific requirements of the customer application.

RF and Microwave Products

Our RF and microwave test instruments and related software and electronic design automation (“EDA”) software tools are used mainly in wireless and aerospace and defense applications. These products are required for the design and production of wireless network products, communications links, cellular handsets and base stations. RF and microwave test instruments include signal analyzers, signal generators, network analyzers, one box testers and power meters. The recent acquisition of Anite provides the software and hardware tools used to design and test the software portion of wireless devices and test the performance of networks.

Digital Products

Our digital test products are used by research and development engineers across a broad range of industries to validate the function and performance of their digital product and system designs. These designs include a wide range of products from simple digital control circuits to complex high-speed systems such as computer servers and the latest generation gaming consoles. The test products offered include oscilloscopes, logic and serial protocol analyzers, logic‑signal sources, arbitrary waveform generators, and bit error rate testers. Our customers also use our high‑frequency EDA software tools to model signal integrity problems in digital design applications as digital speeds continue to increase.









Software Solutions

Our high-frequency EDA software tools are used to model, simulate and analyze communications product designs at the circuit and system levels. Our measurement application software is an extension of our hardware solutions which enables a wide range of measurement capability used across all end markets to design and manufacture next-generation electronic components and products. The recent acquisition of Anite provides the software tools used to design and test the software portion of wireless devices and test the performance of networks.

Other Products

Our general purpose instruments and related software are used across all of our markets by engineers in research and development laboratories, in manufacturing, for calibration and service; for measuring voltage, current, frequency, signal pulse width, modulation and other complex electronics measurements. Our general purpose products include voltmeters, multimeters, frequency counters, bench and system power supplies, function generators and waveform synthesizers.

Our semiconductor and board test solutions enable customers to develop and test state-of-the-art semiconductors, test printed circuit boards and measure position and distance information to the sub‑nanometer level. We supply parametric test instruments and systems used primarily to examine semiconductor wafers during the manufacturing process. Our in‑circuit test systems help identify quality defects, such as faulty or incorrect parts, that affect electrical performance. Our laser interferometer measurement systems are based on precision optical technology and provide precise position or distance information for dimensional measurements.

Our surveillance systems and subsystems are used by defense and government engineers and technicians to detect, locate and analyze signals of interest. The products offered include probes for detecting signals and software that enables the identification and analysis of these signals.

Our suite of fiber optic test products measure and analyze a wide variety of critical optical and electrical parameters in fiber optic networks and their components.  Components which can be tested with our solutions include source lasers, optical amplifiers, filters and other passive components.  Test products include optical modulation analyzers, optical component analyzers, optical power meters, and optical laser source products.

Our microscopy products are high‑resolution imaging devices that can resolve features as small as an atomic lattice.  Our atomic force microscopes and scanning electron microscopes allow researchers to observe and manipulate molecular and atomic level features. Our portfolio provides customers with reliable, easy‑to‑use tools for a wide range of nanotechnology applications, including semiconductor, data storage, polymers, materials science and life science studies.

Measurement Solutions Customers

Our customers include original equipment and contract manufacturers of electronic products, wireless device manufacturers and network equipment manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment.  Other customers are service providers who implement, maintain and manage communication networks and services, and companies who design, develop, and manufacture semiconductors and semiconductor lithography systems.  Our customers use our products to conduct research and development, manufacture, install and maintain radio frequency, microwave frequency, digital, semiconductor, and optical products and systems.  Many of our customers purchase solutions across several of our major product lines for their different business units.

We had approximately 6,600 direct customers for the measurement solutions business in fiscal year 2015. No single customer represented a material amount of our net revenue.

In general, the orders and revenues from many of the electronic measurement markets and product categories are seasonal, traditionally marked by lower business levels in the first and third quarters of the fiscal year and higher volumes in the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year. The seasonal impact of our business is tempered by broader economic trends and the diversity of our electronic measurement products and customers, which span multiple industries.

Measurement Solutions Sales, Marketing and Support

We have a comprehensive sales strategy, using a direct sales force, resellers, manufacturer’s representatives and distributors to meet our customers’ needs.

Our direct sales force focuses on addressing our largest customer needs and recommending solutions involving the effective use and deployment of our equipment, systems and capabilities.  Some of our direct sales force concentrates on more complex products such as our high‑performance instruments, where customers require strategic consultation.  Our direct sales force consists









of field and application engineers who have in‑depth knowledge of the customers’ business and technology needs.  Our application engineers provide a combination of consulting, systems integration and application and software engineering services that are instrumental in all stages of the sale, implementation and support of our complex systems and solutions.

To complement our direct sales force, we have agreements with channel partners around the world. These partners, including resellers, manufacturer’s representatives and distributors, serve customers across both of our segments and are expected to provide the same level of service and support as our direct sales force. Lower dollar sales transactions are also served by our tele‑sales and electronic commerce channels.

Measurement Solutions Manufacturing

We concentrate our electronic measurement manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products.  To maximize our productivity and our ability to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheet metal fabrication, metal die-casting, plastic molding and standard electronic components.  We also manufacture proprietary devices and assemblies in our own fabrication facilities for competitive advantage.  We have manufacturing facilities in California and Colorado in the United States.  Outside of the United States we have manufacturing centralized in Malaysia with other manufacturing facilities in China, Germany and Japan.  Our Penang, Malaysia site is our largest test and measurement manufacturing facility with proven operational excellence through scale, scope and expertise.

Within our business, there are three Technology Centers that collectively provide key components and sub‑systems.  The three Technology Centers are located in Boeblingen, Germany, Colorado Springs, Colorado and Santa Rosa, California. These technologies include optical components and sub‑systems, Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), Thick and Thin Films, High Speed Probes and Precision Machining.  These Technology Centers provide a competitive advantage by developing unique technologies for our instrumentation needs.

We generally only manufacture products when we have received firm orders for delivery and do not generally hold large stocks of finished inventory.

Measurement Solutions Competition

The market for electronic design and test solutions is highly competitive across our targeted markets. In the communications test market, our primary competitors are Anritsu Corporation, Ansoft Corporation (a subsidiary of Ansys Corporation), Cobham plc, National Instruments Corporation, Rohde & Schwarz GmbH & Co. KG, Tektronix, Inc. (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation) and Teradyne, Inc.  In the aerospace and defense market our primary competitors are Cobham plc, Rohde & Schwarz GmbH & Co. KG, and Tektronix, Inc.  In the industrial, computer, and semiconductor market, we compete against companies such as Ametek, Inc., Fluke Corporation (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), National Instruments Corporation, Rohde & Schwarz GmbH & Co. KG, Tektronix, Inc., Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and Teradyne, Inc.



Our electronic design and test solutions offer a wide range of products and related software, and these products compete primarily on the basis of product quality and functionality.





Customer Support and Services Business

The customer support and services business provides accredited repair and calibration services for our installed base instrument customers and facilitates the resale of used equipment. Our customer support and services business enables our customers to maximize the value from their electronic measurement equipment through system uptime support, customer site resident professionals, on-site calibrations and localized service centers. Providing these services assures a high level of instrument performance and availability while minimizing the cost of ownership and equipment downtime.

We employed approximately 1,200 people as of October 31, 2015 in our customer support and services business. This business generated revenue of approximately $400 million in each of fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013.

Customer Support and Services Markets

Our customer support and services business broadly addresses the same markets as the measurement solutions business, which includes the communications, aerospace and defense and industrial, computer and semiconductor test markets.

Customer Support and Services Products

Our customer support and services business provides accredited repair and calibration services for our electronic measurement instruments. We also manage instrument trade‑in programs and refurbish and sell used instruments.









Repair:We provide repair services to our customers. Repair services are performed in company service centers or on‑site at customer locations.

Calibration:We are an accredited calibration service provider for our electronic design and test solutions.  Calibration services are performed in company service centers or on site at customer locations. We continue to expand our multi-vendor physical, dimensional and optical calibration services to meet the growing customer demand.

Parts:We provide parts and self‑maintenance tools to customers who do their own in‑house maintenance.

Refurbished Used Equipment:We refurbish and resell used equipment sourced primarily from  sales demonstration equipment and trade‑in programs. Our CertiPrime program ensures the same high-quality product as new equipment.

Customer Support and Services Customers

The customers for our customer support and services business include most customers of the measurement solutions business as well as customers who buy repair and calibration services and parts for our products they already own. We had approximately 13,000 direct customers for the customer support and services business. No single customer represented a material amount of our net revenue.

Customer Support and Services Sales, Marketing and Support

Our electronic measurement customer support and services business shares the same industry‑leading sales, marketing and support resources as the measurement solutions business, including the same direct sales force and complementary channel partners.

Our global presence, with localized service proximity, is an important factor in sustaining our customers’ equipment uptime.  The service delivery organization includes more than 60 Keysight service locations in 30 countries, customer on‑site capabilities, resident professionals and a network of complementary channel partners.

Customer Support and Services Competition

Our electronic measurement customer support and services business competes with independent test instrument service providers and other original equipment manufacturers. Many of these competitors offer a wide range of services and can support instruments from multiple manufacturers. Service quality, cost and turn‑around time drive competitiveness. In addition, some of our customers have in‑house calibration and repair capabilities.

We compete with regional and country‑specific test instrument service providers and government measurement laboratories that are not original equipment manufacturers. Our primary competitors are Trescal Limited, Tektronix Instrument Calibration Services and Ceprei Laboratories. Due to differing country and regulatory accreditation standards, the services provided may vary greatly.

Our refurbished instruments business faces competition from other electronic measurement instrument competitors with trade‑in programs and from numerous rental companies, equipment dealers, brokers and resellers.



The following discussions of Research and Development, Backlog, Intellectual Property, Materials, Environmental and International Operations include information common to each of our businesses.

Research and Development

Research and development ("R&D") expenditures were $387 million in fiscal 2015, $361 million in fiscal 2014 and $375 million in fiscal 2013. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuous flow of innovative, high-quality products and services. We are committed to investing in R&D and have focused our development efforts on key strategic opportunities in order to align our business with available markets and position ourselves to grow in our markets.

Our R&D efforts focus on potential new products and product improvements covering a wide variety of technologies. We conduct R&D in four principal areas: applied R&D in enabling technologies, communications, simulation and measurement. Our R&D seeks to improve on various technical competencies in electronics, software, systems and solutions. In each of these R&D fields, we conduct R&D that is focused on specific product development for release in the short-term as well as other R&D that is intended to be the foundation for future products over a longer time horizon. Product development R&D investments support new product introductions, improvements to existing products and development of products to meet future market opportunities.











Backlog

Backlog represents the amount of revenue expected from orders that have already been booked, including orders for goods and services that have not been delivered to customers, orders invoiced but not yet recognized as revenue, and orders for goods that were shipped but not invoiced, awaiting acceptance by customers.

At October 31, 2015, our unfilled backlog was approximately $779 million, as compared to approximately $781 million at October 31, 2014. We expect that a majority of the unfilled backlog will be recognized as revenue within six months.  On average, our backlog represents approximately three months' of revenue. We believe backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short-term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance.



Intellectual Property

We generate patent and other intellectual property rights covering significant inventions and other innovations in order to create a competitive advantage. Although we believe that our licenses, patents and other intellectual property rights have value, in general no single license, patent or other intellectual property right is in itself material, other than the Keysight mark. In addition, our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or may otherwise not provide significant competitive advantage.



Materials

Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies and raw materials such as plastic resins and sheet metal. We purchase materials from thousands of suppliers on a global basis. Some of the parts that require custom design work are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Our long-term relationships with suppliers allow us to proactively manage technology road maps and product discontinuance plans and monitor their financial health. Even so, some suppliers may still extend their lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or cease to produce necessary parts for our products. If these are unique components, we may not be able to find a substitute quickly or at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply chain, we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple sources of supply and redesign of products for alternative components. In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we do purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect the supply chain.



Environmental

Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment.  We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety to sites inside and outside the United States, even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state, and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. The environmental, product content/disposal and recycling laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may cause us to incur significant expenditures in the future.

Some of our properties are undergoing remediation by Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP") for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of Agilent’s separation from HP in 1999. In connection with Agilent’s separation from HP, HP and Agilent entered into an agreement pursuant to which HP agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify Agilent with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. Agilent has assigned its rights and obligations under this agreement to Keysight in respect of facilities transferred to Keysight in the separation. As a result, HP has access to a limited number of our properties to perform remediation. Although HP agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at such properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. In connection with the separation, Agilent will indemnify us directly for any liabilities related thereto. We cannot be sure that HP will continue to fulfill its remediation obligations or that Agilent will continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations.

In connection with the separation, Agilent also agreed to indemnify us for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred from Agilent to us. We cannot be sure that Agilent will fulfill its indemnification obligations.

We maintain a comprehensive Environmental Site Liability insurance policy which may cover certain clean-up costs or legal claims related to environmental contamination. This policy covers specified active, inactive and divested locations.











International Operations

Our net revenue originating outside the United States, as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 65 percent in fiscal 2015, 64 percent in fiscal 2014, and 67 percent in fiscal 2013, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Revenues from external customers are generally attributed to regions based upon the location of our sales representative.

Long-lived assets located outside of the United States as a percentage of our total long-lived assets was approximately 62 percent in fiscal year 2015 and 64 percent in fiscal year 2014. Approximately 22 and 26 percent of our long-lived assets were located in Japan in fiscal years 2015 and 2014, respectively. Approximately 12 and 14 percent of our long-lived assets were located in Malaysia in fiscal years 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Most of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries.  In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors. However, we also sell into international markets directly from the United States.

Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers, changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, consequences from changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations, differing protection of intellectual property and geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war.  We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales and expenses, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency, and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt we incur, or investment portfolios we hold. There may be an increased risk of political unrest in regions where we have significant manufacturing operations such as Southeast Asia. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 21, "Segment Information," to our combined and consolidated financial statements.



Acquisition of Material Assets



On August 13, 2015, we acquired all share capital of Anite, a U.K.-based global company, under the scheme document dated July 6, 2015. This acquisition strengthens our wireless software design and test portfolio and its Network Test business expands our served addressable market. Coupled with Keysight's expertise in helping customers design and test hardware, we can now provide customers with more comprehensive wireless hardware and software solutions. Anite’s Network Test business will also enable us to provide innovative solutions that help customers deliver an outstanding experience for mobile users in the network. As a result of the acquisition, Anite has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Keysight. The consideration paid was $558 million, net of $43 million of cash acquired. We funded the acquisition using our existing cash.





Executive Officers of the Registrant

The names of our executive officers and their ages, titles and biographies as of December 1, 2015 appear below:

Ronald S. Nersesian, 56, has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Keysight since December 2013 and, prior to separation, served as Executive Vice President of Agilent.  Mr. Nersesian served as President of Agilent from November 2012 to September 2013 and as Chief Operating Officer, Agilent from November 2011 to September 2013. From November 2011 to November 2012, Mr. Nersesian served as Agilent’s Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.  He served as Senior Vice President, Agilent, and President, Electronic Measurement Group from March 2009 to November 2011, as Agilent’s Vice President and General Manager of the Wireless Business Unit of the Electronics Measurement Group from February 2005 to February 2009, and as Agilent’s Vice President and General Manager of the Design Validation Division from May 2002 to February 2005.  Prior to joining Agilent, Mr. Nersesian served in management positions with LeCroy Corporation from 1996 to 2002.  From 1984 through 1996, Mr. Nersesian served in various roles with HP. Mr. Nersesian serves on the Board of Directors of Trimble Navigation Limited.



Neil Dougherty, 46, has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Keysight since December 2013 and, prior to separation,  served as Vice President, Agilent, since 2012.  From 2012 to 2013, Mr. Dougherty also served as Agilent’s Treasurer. He served as Senior Director in Agilent’s Corporate Development Group from 2010 to 2012, and from 2006 to 2010, he served as Agilent’s Assistant Treasurer. Prior to that, Mr. Dougherty held a broad variety of positions in finance for Agilent and HP.











Jay Alexander,52, has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of Keysight since May 2014 and, from October 2009 until prior to the separation, he served as Vice President and General Manager for the Oscilloscope and Protocol Division of Agilent.



Ingrid Estrada, 51, has served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Keysight since December 2013 and, prior to separation, served as Vice President and General Manager of Global Sourcing of Agilent since 2011, and as Vice President and General Manager of Remarketing Solutions Division of Agilent since 2006.



Michael Gasparian, 57, has served as Senior Vice President of the Communications Solutions Group since November 2015. From March 2014 to November 2015, Mr. Gasparian served as Senior Vice President of Customer Support and Services and Worldwide Marketing for Keysight and, prior to separation, served as Vice President, Agilent since 2000, although he did not work at Agilent from 2009 to 2010. From 2011 to 2012, Mr. Gasparian served as Agilent’s Vice President of Marketing. From 2007 to 2008, Mr. Gasparian served as the General Manager of the Material Science Solutions Unit of Agilent.



Soon Chai Gooi, 54, has served as Senior Vice President of the Industrial Solutions Group since November 2015.  From December 2013 to November 2015, Mr. Gooi served as Senior Vice President of Order Fulfillment and Infrastructure for Keysight and, prior to separation, as Senior Vice President, Agilent since December 2011. From November 2012 to September 2013, he served as President of Agilent Order Fulfillment and Supply Chain, and from December 2011 to November 2012, he was the Senior Vice President of Order Fulfillment and Supply Chain. Previously, Mr. Gooi served as Agilent’s Vice President and General Manager of the Electronic Instruments Business Unit and EMG Order Fulfillment from May 2006 to December 2011.



John Page, 51,has served as Senior Vice President of Services Solutions Group since November 2015 andmost recently served as vice president of business finance of Keysight from February 2014 to November 2015. Prior to joining Keysight, Mr. Page served as the Chief Financial Officer of Nanosys, Inc. from 2010-2014.



Guy Séné, 60, has served as Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales since November 2015.  From March 2014 to November 2015, Mr.Séné served as Senior Vice President of Measurement Solutions and Worldwide Sales for Keysight and, prior to separation, served as Senior Vice President, Agilent, and President, Electronic Measurement Group since November 2011. From May 2009 to November 2011, Mr. Sene served as Agilent’s Vice President and General Manager, Microwave and Communications Division of the Electronic Measurement Group.



Stephen Williams, 43, has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Keysight since December 2013 and, prior to separation, served as Agilent’s Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary since November 2009. From February 2007 to November 2009, Mr. Williams served as Managing Counsel in Agilent’s Legal Department.



John Skinner, 53, has served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer of Keysight since December 2013 and, prior to separation, served as Vice President, Agilent. From April 2012 to December 2013, Mr. Skinner served as Vice President, Agilent and Controller of Global Infrastructure and Enterprise Financial Planning and Analysis.  From April 2009 to April 2012, Mr. Skinner served as Agilent’s Senior Director of Agilent Business Reporting.





Investor Information

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).  Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be read and copied by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically.

You can access financial and other information at our Investor Relations website. The address is www.investor.keysight.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.

Our Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit and Finance Committee, our Compensation Committee, our Executive Committee and our Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Standards of Business Conduct are available on our website at www.investor.keysight.com under “Corporate Governance.” These items are also available in print to any stockholder in the United States and Canada who requests them by calling (800) 829-4444. This information is also available by writing to the company at the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.











