Item 1.Business



Overview



Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. is the largest
    beauty retailer that provides one-stop shopping for prestige,
    mass and salon products and salon services in the United States.
    We focus on providing affordable indulgence to our customers by
    combining the product breadth, value and convenience of a beauty
    superstore with the distinctive environment and experience of a
    specialty retailer. Key aspects of our business include:



One-Stop Shopping.Our customers can satisfy
    all of their beauty needs at Ulta. We offer a unique combination
    of over 21,000 prestige and mass beauty products organized by
    category in bright, open, self-service displays to encourage our
    customers to play, touch, test, learn and explore. We believe we
    offer the widest selection of categories across prestige and
    mass cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body
    products and salon styling tools. We also offer a full-service
    salon and a wide range of salon haircare products in all of our
    stores.



Our Value Proposition.We believe our focus on
    delivering a compelling value proposition to our customers
    across all of our product categories is fundamental to our
    customer loyalty. For example, we run frequent promotions and
    gift coupons for our mass brands, gift-with-purchase offers and
    multi-product gift sets for our prestige brands, and a
    comprehensive customer loyalty program.



An Off-Mall Location.We are conveniently
    located in high-traffic, primarily off-mall locations such as
    power centers and lifestyle centers with other destination
    retailers. Our typical store is approximately 10,000 square
    feet, including approximately 950 square feet dedicated to
    our full-service salon. Our displays, store design and open
    layout allow us the flexibility to respond to consumer trends
    and changes in our merchandising strategy.






In addition to the fundamental elements of a beauty superstore,
    we strive to offer an uplifting shopping experience through what
    we refer to as “The Five E’s”: Escape, Education,
    Entertainment, Esthetics and Empowerment.



Escape.We strive to offer our customers a
    timely escape from the stresses of daily life in a welcoming and
    approachable environment. Our customer can immerse herself in
    our extensive product selection, indulge herself in our hair or
    skin treatments, or discover new and exciting products in an
    interactive setting. We provide a shopping experience without
    the intimidating, commission-oriented and brand-dedicated sales
    approach that we believe is found in most department stores and
    with a level of service that we believe is typically unavailable
    in drug stores and mass merchandisers.



Education.We staff our stores with a team of
    well-trained beauty consultants and professionally licensed
    estheticians and stylists whose mission is to educate, inform
    and advise our customers regarding their beauty needs. We also
    provide product education through demonstrations, in-store
    videos and informational displays. Our focus on educating our
    customer reinforces our authority as her primary resource for
    beauty products and our credibility as a provider of consistent,
    high- quality salon services. Our beauty consultants are trained
    to service customers across all prestige lines and within our
    prestige “boutiques” where customers can receive a
    makeover or skin analysis.



Entertainment.The entertainment experience
    for our customer begins at home when she receives our catalogs.
    Our catalogs are designed to introduce our customers to our
    newest products and promotions and to be invitations to come to
    Ulta to play, touch, test, learn and explore. A significant
    percentage of our sales throughout the year is derived from new
    products, making every visit to Ulta an opportunity to discover
    something new and exciting. In addition to providing over 4,500
    testers in categories such as fragrance, cosmetics, skincare,
    and salon styling tools, we further enhance the shopping
    experience and store atmosphere through live demonstrations from
    our licensed salon professionals and beauty consultants, and
    through customer makeovers and in-store videos.



Esthetics.We strive to create a visually
    pleasing and inviting store and salon environment that
    exemplifies and reinforces the quality of our products and
    services. Our stores are brightly lit, spacious and attractive
    on the inside and outside of the store. Our store and salon
    design features sleek, modern lines that reinforce our status as
    a fashion authority, together with wide aisles that make the
    store easy to navigate and pleasant lighting to create a
    luxurious and welcoming environment. This strategy enables us to
    provide an extensive product selection in a well-organized store
    and to offer a salon experience that is both fashionable and
    contemporary.



Empowerment.We are committed to creating an
    environment in which women feel empowered by both their inner
    and outer beauty; we take honor in providing our guests with
    opportunities to showcase how they have empowered themselves and
    others. Ulta is committed to positively impacting the lives of
    women through our work on two empowerment initiatives. The first
    is the Ulta Enrich, Empower and Enlighten Scholarship Fund which
    grants deserving high school senior girls scholarships to the
    educational institution of their choice. The second is our
    annual Windows of Love campaign that recognizes the “unsung
    heroes” who are affected by breast cancer. It is our hope
    that through these stories of empowerment women everywhere
    become one step closer to achieving their dreams and positively
    impacting others.



We were founded in 1990 as a discount beauty retailer at a time
    when prestige, mass and salon products were sold through
    distinct channels — department stores for prestige
    products, drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass products,
    and salons and authorized retail outlets for professional hair
    care products. When Lyn Kirby, our current President and Chief
    Executive Officer, joined us in December 1999, we embarked on a
    multi-year strategy to understand and embrace what women want in
    a beauty retailer and transform Ulta into the shopping
    experience that it is today. We conducted extensive research and
    surveys to analyze customer response and our effectiveness in
    areas such as in-store experience, merchandise selection, salon
    services and marketing strategies. Based on our research and
    customer surveys, we pioneered what we believe to be a unique
    retail approach that focuses on all aspects of how women prefer
    to shop for beauty products by combining the fundamental
    elements of a beauty superstore, including one-stop shopping, a
    compelling value proposition and convenient locations, together
    with an uplifting specialty retail experience through our






emphasis on “The Five E’s”. While we are
    currently executing on the core elements of our business
    strategy, we plan to continually refine our approach in order to
    further enhance the shopping experience for our customers.



Our
    competitive strengths



We believe the following competitive strengths differentiate us
    from our competitors and are critical to our continuing success:



Differentiated merchandising strategy with broad
    appeal.We believe our broad selection of
    merchandise across categories, price points and brands offers a
    unique shopping experience for our customers. While the products
    we sell can be found in department stores, specialty stores,
    salons, drug stores and mass merchandisers, we offer all of
    these products in one retail format so that our customer can
    find everything she needs in one shopping trip. We appeal to a
    wide range of customers by offering over 500 brands, such as
    Bare Escentuals cosmetics, Chanel and Estée Lauder
    fragrances, L’Oréal haircare and cosmetics and Paul
    Mitchell haircare. We also have private label Ulta offerings in
    key categories. Because our offerings span a broad array of
    product categories in prestige, mass and salon, we appeal to a
    wide range of customers including women of all ages,
    demographics, and lifestyles.



Our unique customer experience.We combine the
    value and convenience of a beauty superstore with the
    distinctive environment and experience of a specialty retailer.
    The “Five E’s” provide the foundation for our
    operating strategy. We cater to the woman who loves to indulge
    in shopping for beauty products as well as the woman who is time
    constrained and comes to the store knowing exactly what she
    wants. Our distribution infrastructure consistently delivers a
    greater than 95% in-stock rate, so our customers know they will
    find the products they are looking for. Our well-trained beauty
    consultants are not commission-based or brand-dedicated and
    therefore can provide unbiased and customized advice tailored to
    our customers’ needs. Together with our customer service
    strategy, our store locations, layout and design help create our
    unique retail shopping experience, which we believe increases
    both the frequency and length of our customers’ visits.



Retail format poised to benefit from shifting channel
    dynamics.Over the past several years, the
    approximately $80 billion beauty products and salon
    services industry has experienced significant changes, including
    a shift in how manufacturers distribute and customers purchase
    beauty products. This has enabled the specialty retail channel
    in which we operate to grow at a greater rate than the industry
    overall since at least 2000. We are capitalizing on these trends
    by offering a primarily off-mall, service-oriented specialty
    retail concept with a comprehensive product mix across
    categories and price points.



Loyal and active customer base.We have
    approximately seven million customer loyalty program members,
    the majority of whom have shopped at one of our stores within
    the past 12 months. We utilize this valuable proprietary
    database to drive traffic, better understand our customers’
    purchasing patterns and support new store site selection. We
    regularly distribute catalogs and newspaper inserts to entertain
    and educate our customers and, most importantly, to drive
    traffic to our stores.



Strong vendor relationships across product
    categories.We have strong, active relationships
    with over 300 vendors, including Estée Lauder, Bare
    Escentuals, Coty, L’Oréal and Procter &
    Gamble. We believe the scope and extent of these relationships,
    which span the three distinct beauty categories of prestige,
    mass and salon and have taken years to develop, create a
    significant impediment for other retailers to replicate our
    model. These relationships also frequently afford us the
    opportunity to work closely with our vendors to market both new
    and existing brands in a collaborative manner.



Experienced management team.We have an
    experienced senior management team with extensive beauty and
    retail experience that brings a creative merchandising approach
    and a disciplined operating philosophy to our business. Our
    senior management team is led by Lyn Kirby, our President and
    Chief Executive Officer, and Gregg Bodnar, our Chief Financial
    Officer. Additionally, over the past several years, we have
    significantly expanded the depth of our management team at all
    levels and in all functional areas to support our growth
    strategy.






Growth
    strategy



We intend to expand our presence as a leading retailer of beauty
    products and salon services by:



Growing our store base.We opened 37 stores,
    representing square footage growth of 12%, and remodeled 6
    stores in fiscal 2009. Due to the economic downturn, the number
    of high-quality commercial real estate projects of the size and
    with the co-tenant mix that we typically target for our new
    store locations has significantly declined. As a result, we
    reduced our new store program for 2009.



As the economy stabilizes and begins to recover, we believe our
    successful track record of opening new stores in diverse markets
    across the United States will allow us to increase our new store
    growth rates back to historical levels consistent with our
    long-term target of 15% to 20%. We continue to believe that over
    the long-term, we have the potential to grow our store base to
    over 1,000 Ulta stores in the United States. Our internal real
    estate model takes into account a number of variables, including
    demographic and sociographic data as well as population density
    relative to maximum drive times, economic and competitive
    factors. We plan to continue opening stores both in markets in
    which we currently operate and new markets.



Fiscal Year20052006200720082009Total stores beginning of period142167196249311Stores opened2531536337Stores closed—(2)—(1)(2)Total stores end of period167196249311346Stores remodeled171786Total square footage1,726,5632,023,3052,589,2443,240,5793,613,840Average square footage per store10,33910,32310,39910,42010,445





Increasing our sales and profitability by expanding our
    prestige brand offerings.



Improving our profitability by leveraging our fixed
    costs.We plan to continue to improve our
    operating results by leveraging our existing infrastructure and
    continually optimizing our operations. We will continue to make
    investments in our information systems to enable us to enhance
    our efficiency in areas such as merchandise planning and
    allocation, inventory management, distribution and point of sale
    (POS) functions. We believe we will continue to improve our
    profitability by reducing our operating expenses, in particular
    general corporate overhead and fixed costs, as a percentage of
    sales.



Continuing to enhance our brand awareness to generate sales
    growth.We believe a key component of our success
    is the brand exposure we get from our marketing initiatives. Our
    direct mail advertising programs are designed to drive
    additional traffic to our stores by highlighting current
    promotional events and new product offerings. Our national
    magazine print advertising campaign exposes potential new
    customers to our retail concept by conveying an attractive and
    sophisticated brand message. We believe we have an opportunity
    to






increase our in-store marketing efforts as an additional means
    of educating our customers and increasing the frequency of their
    visits to our stores.



Driving increased customer traffic to our
    salons.We are committed to establishing Ulta as
    a leading salon authority. We seek to increase salon traffic and
    grow salon revenues by providing high quality and consistent
    services from our licensed stylists, who are knowledgeable about
    the newest hair fashion trends. Our objective is to create
    customer loyalty, increase conversion of our retail customers to
    our salon services, encourage referrals and distinguish our
    salons from those of our competitors. Our stylists are trained
    to sell haircare products to their customers by demonstrating
    the products while styling their customers’ hair.
    Additionally, we have refined our recruiting methods, hiring
    procedures and training programs to enhance stylist retention,
    which is an important factor in salon productivity.



Expanding oure-commercebusiness.In addition to re-launching our
    Ulta.com website ande-commerceplatform in November 2007, we continue to aggressively develop
    and add new website features and functionality, marketing
    programs, product assortment and new brands, and multi-channel
    integration points to drive increased visitor traffic and
    revenue to this channel. We intend to establish ourselves over
    time as a leading online beauty resource for women by providing
    our customers with a rich online experience for information on
    key trends and products, editorial content, expanded
    assortments, leading website features and functionality, and
    social media content. Through our continued enhancements and
    multi-channel marketing initiatives, we believe we are well
    positioned to capitalize on the growth of Internet sales of
    beauty products. We believe our website and retail stores
    provide our customers with an integrated multi-channel shopping
    experience and increased flexibility for their beauty buying
    needs.



Our
    market



We operate within the large and steadily growing
    U.S. beauty products and salon services industry. This
    market represents approximately $80 billion in retail
    sales, according to a 2008 report by Kline & Company
    and IBISWorld Inc. The approximately $36 billion beauty
    products industry includes color cosmetics, haircare, fragrance,
    bath and body, skincare, salon styling tools and other
    toiletries. Within this market, we compete across all major
    categories as well as a range of price points by offering
    prestige, mass and salon products. The approximately
    $44 billion salon services industry consists of hair, face
    and nail services.



Distribution for beauty products is varied. Prestige products
    are typically purchased in department or specialty stores, while
    mass products and staple items are generally purchased at drug
    stores, food retail stores and mass merchandisers. In addition,
    salon haircare products are sold in salons and authorized
    professional retail outlets.



Competition



Our major competitors for prestige and mass products include
    traditional department stores such as Macy’s and Nordstrom,
    specialty stores such as Sephora and Bath & Body
    Works, drug stores such as CVS/pharmacy and Walgreens and mass
    merchandisers such as Target and Wal-Mart. We believe the
    principal bases upon which we compete are the quality and
    assortment of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of
    our customers’ shopping experience and the convenience of
    our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and
    salon services.



The market for salon services and products is highly fragmented.
    Our competitors for salon services and products include Regis
    Corp., Sally Beauty, JCPenney salons, Premier Salons and
    independent salons.



Key
    trends



We believe an important shift is occurring in the distribution
    of beauty products. Department stores, which have traditionally
    been the primary distribution channel for prestige beauty
    products, have been meaningfully affected by changing consumer
    preferences and industry consolidation over the past decade. We
    believe women, particularly younger generations, tend to find
    department stores intimidating, high-pressured and hinder a
    multi-brand shopping experience and, as such, are choosing to
    shop elsewhere for their beauty care needs. According to NPD,
    55% of women aged 18 to 24 shop in specialty stores, compared to
    40% of women






aged 18 to 64. Over the past ten years, department stores have
    lost significant market share to specialty stores in apparel,
    and we believe the beauty category is undergoing a similar shift
    in retail channels. We believe women are seeking a shopping
    experience that provides something different, a place to
    experiment, learn about various products, find what they want
    and indulge themselves. A recent Kline & Company
    report found that consumers seek out specialty retailers for a
    number of reasons including that specialty stores carry more
    niche products, the merchandise and retail environment is more
    fun and provides the ability to shop across product lines and
    the customer service is better than in other channels.



As a result of this market transformation, there has been an
    increase in the number of prestige beauty brands pursuing new
    distribution channels for their products, such as specialty
    retail, spas and salons, direct response television (i.e., home
    shopping and infomercials) and the Internet. In addition, many
    smaller prestige brands are selling their products through these
    channels due to the high fixed costs associated with operating
    in most department stores and to capitalize on consumers’
    growing propensity to shop in these channels. According to
    industry sources, color cosmetics sales through these channels
    are projected to grow at a higher rate than sales of color
    cosmetics in total. We believe that, based on our recent success
    in attracting new prestige brands, we are well-positioned to
    continue to capture additional prestige brands as they expand
    into specialty stores. Also, there are a growing number of
    brands that have built significant consumer awareness and sales
    by initially offering their products on direct response
    television. We benefit from offering brands that sell their
    products through this channel, as we experience increased store
    traffic and sales after these brands appear on television.



Historically, manufacturers have distributed their products
    through distinct channels — department stores for
    prestige products, drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass
    products, and salons and authorized retail outlets for
    professional hair care products. We believe women are
    increasingly shopping across retail channels as well as
    purchasing a combination of prestige and mass beauty products.
    We attribute this trend to a number of factors, including the
    growing availability of prestige brands outside of department
    stores and increased innovation in mass products. Based on the
    competitive environment in which we operate, we believe that we
    have been at the forefront of breaking down the industry’s
    historical distribution paradigm by combining a wide range of
    beauty products, categories and price points under one roof. Our
    strategy reflects a more customer-centric model of how women
    prefer to shop today for their beauty needs.



Major growth drivers for the industry include favorable consumer
    spending trends, product innovation and growth of certain
    population segments.



•Baby Boomers (born between 1946 and 1964):  Baby
    Boomers have larger disposable incomes and are increasing their
    spending on personal care as well as health and wellness. The
    aging of the Baby Boomer generation is also influencing product
    innovation and demand for anti-aging products and cosmetic
    procedures.•Generation X (born between 1965 and 1976):  Generation
    X is entering their peak earning years and represents a
    significant contributor to overall consumer spending, including
    beauty products. A recent survey by American Express showed that
    Generation X spends 60% more on beauty products than
    Baby Boomers. In addition, while prior generations grew up
    shopping in department stores and general merchandisers,
    Generation X has grown up shopping in specialty stores and we
    believe seeks a retail environment that combines a compelling
    experience, functionality, variety and location.•Generation Y (born between 1977 and 1994):  According
    to the United States Census Bureau data, the 20 to
    34 year-old age group is expected to grow by approximately
    10% from 2003 to 2015. As Generation Y continues to enter the
    workforce, they will have increased disposable income to spend
    on beauty products.



We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on these trends
    and capture additional market share in the industry. We believe
    we have demonstrated an ability to provide a differentiated
    store experience for customers as well as offer a breadth and
    depth of merchandise previously unavailable from more
    traditional beauty retailers.






Stores



We are conveniently located in high-traffic, primarily off-mall
    locations such as power centers and lifestyle centers with other
    destination retailers. Our typical store is approximately
    10,000 square feet, including approximately 950 square
    feet dedicated to our full-service salon. We opened 37 stores in
    fiscal 2009 and the average investment required to open a new
    Ulta store is approximately $1.1 million, which includes
    capital investments, net of landlord contributions, pre-opening
    expenses, and initial inventory, net of payables. However, our
    net investment required to open new stores and the net sales
    generated by new stores may vary depending on a number of
    factors, including geographic location. As of January 30,
    2010, we operated 346 stores in 38 states.



Store
    remodel program



Our retail store concept, including physical layout, displays,
    lighting and quality of finishes, has continued to evolve over
    time to match the rising expectations of our customers and to
    keep pace with our merchandising and operating strategies. In
    recent years, our strategic focus has been on refining our new
    store model, improving our real estate selection process and
    executing on our new store opening program. As a result, we
    decided to limit the investments made in our existing store base
    from fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2006, we developed
    and initiated a store remodel program to update our older stores
    to provide a consistent shopping experience across all of our
    locations. We remodeled 6 stores in fiscal 2009. We believe this
    program will improve the appeal of our stores, drive additional
    customer traffic and increase our sales and profitability. The
    remodel store selection process is subject to the same
    discipline as our new store real estate decision process. Our
    focus is to remodel the oldest, highest performing stores first,
    subject to criteria such as rate of return, lease terms, market
    performance and quality of real estate. The average investment
    to remodel a store in fiscal 2009 was approximately
    $0.9 million. Each remodel takes approximately
    13 weeks to complete, during which time we typically keep
    the store open.



Salon



We operate full-service salons in all of our stores. Our current
    Ulta store format includes an open and modern salon area with
    eight to ten stations. The entire salon area is approximately
    950 square feet with a concierge desk, esthetics room,
    semi-private shampoo and hair color processing areas. Each salon
    is a full-service salon offering hair cuts, hair coloring and
    permanent texture, with most salons also providing facials and
    waxing. We employ licensed professional stylists and
    estheticians that offer highly skilled services as well as an
    educational experience, including consultations, styling
    lessons, skincare regimens, and at-home care recommendations.



Ulta.com



We established Ulta.com to give our customers an integrated
    multi-channel buying experience by providing them with an
    opportunity to access product offerings and information beyond
    ourbrick-and-mortarretail stores. The Ulta.com website and experience supports the
    key elements of the Ulta brand proposition and provides access
    to more than 11,000 beauty products from hundreds of brands. As
    Ulta.com continues to grow in terms of functionality and
    content, it will become an even greater element in Ulta’s
    customer loyalty programs and a more important resource for our
    customers to access product and store information, beauty trends
    and techniques, and buy from a large assortment of product
    offerings.



Merchandising



Strategy



We focus on offering one of the most extensive product and brand
    selections in our industry, including a broad assortment of
    branded and private label beauty products in cosmetics,
    fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body products and salon
    styling tools. A typical Ulta store carries over 19,000 basic
    and over 2,000 promotional products. We present these products
    in an assisted self-service environment using centrally produced
    planograms (detailed schematics showing product placement in the
    store) and promotional






merchandising planners. Our merchandising team continually
    monitors current fashion trends, historical sales trends and new
    product launches to keep Ulta’s product assortment fresh
    and relevant to our customers. We believe our broad selection of
    merchandise, from moderate-priced brands to higher-end prestige
    brands, offers a unique shopping experience for our customers.
    The products we sell can also be found in department stores,
    specialty stores, salons, mass merchandisers and drug stores,
    but we offer all of these products in one retail format so that
    our customer can find everything she needs in one stop. We
    believe we offer a compelling value proposition to our customers
    across all of our product categories. For example, we run
    frequent promotions and gift coupons for our mass brands,
    gift-with-purchase offers and multi-product gift sets for our
    prestige brands, and a comprehensive customer loyalty program.



We believe our private label products are a strategically
    important category for growth and profit contribution. Our
    objective is to provide quality, trend-right private label
    products at a good value to continue to strengthen our
    customers’ perception of Ulta as a contemporary beauty
    destination. Ulta manages the full development cycle of these
    products from concept through production in order to deliver
    differentiated packaging and formulas to build brand image.
    Current Ulta cosmetics and bath brands have a strong following
    and we have plans to expand our private label products into
    additional categories.



Category
    mix



We offer products in the following categories:



•Cosmetics, which includes products for the face, eyes, cheeks,
    lips and nails;•Haircare, which includes shampoos, conditioners, styling
    products, and hair accessories;•Salon styling tools, which includes hair dryers, curling irons
    and flat irons;•Skincare and bath and body, which includes products for the
    face, hands and body;•Fragrance for both men and women;•Private label, consisting of Ulta branded cosmetics, skincare,
    bath and body products and haircare; and•Other, including candles, home fragrance products and other
    miscellaneous health and beauty products.



Organization



Our merchandising team reports directly to our CEO and consists
    of a Senior Vice President of Merchandising who oversees; Senior
    Vice President of Prestige Cosmetics; Vice President of Mass
    Cosmetics, Skincare and Haircare; Vice President of Brand
    Identity and Store Design; Vice President of Merchandise
    Operations; Divisional Merchandise Manager of Fragrance, Bath
    and Gift with Purchase and Prestige Skincare; Divisional
    Merchandise Manager of Salon Products; and Divisional
    Merchandise Manager of Styling Tools. Reporting to the Senior
    Vice President of Merchandising are approximately 23 Divisional
    Merchandise Managers, Senior Buyers, Buyers and
    Assistant/Associate Buyers. Our merchandising team works
    directly with our centralized planning and replenishment group
    to ensure a consistent delivery of products across our store
    base.



Our planogram department assists the merchants and replenishment
    team to keep new products flowing into stores on a timely basis.
    All major product categories undergo planogram revisions once or
    twice a year and adjustments are made to assortment mix and
    product placement based on current sales trends.



Our visual department works with our merchandising team on every
    advertising event regarding strategic placement of promotional
    merchandise, along with functional signage and creative product
    presentation standards, in all of our stores. All stores receive
    a centrally produced promotional planner for each event to
    ensure consistent implementation.



Planning
    and allocation



We have developed a disciplined approach to buying and a dynamic
    inventory planning and allocation process to support our
    merchandising strategy. We centrally manage product
    replenishment to our stores through our






planning and replenishment group. This group serves as a
    strategic partner to, and provides financial oversight of, the
    merchandising team. The merchandising team creates a sales
    forecast by category for the year. Our planning and
    replenishment group creates anopen-to-buyplan, approved by senior executives, for each product category.
    Theopen-to-buyplan is updated weekly with POS data, receipts and inventory
    levels and is used throughout the year to balance buying
    opportunities and inventory return on investment. We believe
    this structure maximizes our buying opportunities while
    maintaining organizational and financial control. Regularly
    replenished products are presented consistently in all stores
    utilizing a merchandising planogram process. POS data is used to
    calculate sales forecasts and to determine replenishment levels.
    We determine promotional product replenishment levels using
    sales histories from similar or comparable events. To ensure our
    inventory remains productive, our planning and replenishment
    group, along with senior executives, monitors the levels of
    clearance and aged inventory in our stores on a weekly basis.



Vendor
    relationships



We work with over 300 vendors. Our Senior Vice President of
    Merchandising & Store Design has over 30 years of
    experience and each merchandising vice president has over
    15 years of experience developing relationships in the
    industry with which he or she works. We have no long-term supply
    agreements or exclusive arrangements with our vendors. Our top
    ten vendors represent approximately 46% of our total annual
    sales. These include vendors across all product categories, such
    as Bare Escentuals, Farouk Systems, Helen of Troy,
    L’Oréal and Procter & Gamble, among others.
    We believe our vendors view us as a significant distribution
    channel for growth and brand enhancement.



Marketing
    and advertising



Marketing
    strategy



We employ a multi-faceted marketing strategy to increase brand
    awareness and drive traffic to our stores. Our marketing
    strategy complements a basic tenet of our business strategy,
    which is to provide our customers with a satisfying and
    uplifting experience. We communicate this vision through a
    multi-media approach. Our primary media expenditure is in direct
    mail catalogs and free-standing newspaper inserts. These
    vehicles allow the customer to see the breadth of our selection
    of prestige, mass and salon beauty products.



In order to reach new customers and to establish Ulta as a
    national brand, we advertise in national magazines such as
    InStyle, Allure, Lucky, Elle and Vanity Fair. These advertising
    channels have proven successful in raising our brand awareness
    on a national level and driving additional sales from both
    existing and new customers. In conjunction with our national
    brand advertising, we have initiated a public relations strategy
    that focuses on reaching top tier magazine editors to ensure
    consistent messaging in beauty magazines as well asdirect-to-customerefforts through multi-media channels.



Oure-commercemarketing strategy complements our print media strategy.
    Ulta.com serves as an extension of Ulta’s marketing and
    prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and
    national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the
    Ulta brand and product offerings. This role for Ulta.com is
    being implemented through online marketing strategies including
    search marketing, affiliate marketing, social networking, banner
    advertising, and other online marketing channels.
    Ulta.com’s email marketing programs are also effective in
    communicating with and driving sales from online and retail
    store customers. In October 2009, we launched a Facebook
    application for the Company’s “Windows of Love”
    campaign in support of our Breast Cancer Research Foundation
    program. In December 2009, we launched an interactive microsite
    to support the Company’s “12 Days of Holiday”
    marketing campaign.



Customer
    loyalty programs



We maintain two customer loyalty programs. Our national program
    provides reward point certificates for free beauty products.
    Customers earn purchase-based reward points and redeem the
    related reward certificate during specific promotional periods
    during the year. We are also piloting a loyalty program in
    several markets in which customers earn purchase-based points on
    an annual basis which can be redeemed at any time. We






have approximately seven million customer loyalty program
    members, the majority of whom have shopped at one of our stores
    within the past 12 months.



Staffing
    and operations



Retail



Our current Ulta store format is staffed with a general manager,
    a salon manager, three to four assistant managers, and
    approximately twenty full and part-time associates, including
    approximately six to eight prestige consultants and eight to ten
    licensed salon professionals. The management team in each store
    reports to the general manager. The general manager oversees all
    store activities including salon management, inventory
    management, merchandising, cash management, scheduling, hiring
    and guest services. Members of store management receive bonuses
    depending on their position and based upon sales, shrink,
    payroll, or a combination of these three factors. Each general
    manager reports to a district manager, who in turn reports to
    the Vice President of Operations East or the Vice President of
    Operations West. The Vice Presidents of East and West report to
    the Senior Vice President of Operations who in turn reports to
    our Chief Executive Officer. Each store team receives additional
    support from time to time from recruiting specialists for the
    retail and salon operations, a field loss prevention team, salon
    technical trainers, management trainers and vendors.



Ulta stores are open seven days a week, eleven hours a day,
    Monday through Saturday, and seven hours on Sunday. Our stores
    have extended hours during the holiday season.



Salon



A typical salon is staffed with eight to ten licensed salon
    professionals, including a salon manager, six stylists, and one
    to two estheticians. Our higher producing salons have a guest
    coordinator and an assistant manager. Our salon technical
    trainers and vendor education classes create a comprehensive
    educational program for approximately 2,700 Ulta salon
    professionals.



Training
    and development



Our success is dependent in part on our ability to attract,
    train, retain and motivate qualified employees at all levels of
    the organization. We have developed a corporate culture that
    enables individual store managers to make store-level operating
    decisions and consistently rewards their success. We are
    committed to improving the skills and careers of our workforce
    and providing advancement opportunities for our associates. Our
    associates and management teams are essential to our store
    expansion strategy. We primarily use existing managers or
    promote from within to support our new stores, although many
    outlying stores have all-new teams.



All of our associates participate in an interactive new-hire
    orientation through which each associate becomes acquainted with
    Ulta’s vision and mission. Training for new store managers,
    prestige consultants and sales associates familiarizes them with
    opening and closing routines, guest service expectations, our
    loss prevention policy and procedures, and our culture. We also
    have ongoing development programs that include operational
    training for hourly associates, prestige consultants, management
    and stylists. We provide continuing education to both salon
    professionals and retail associates throughout their careers at
    Ulta to enable them to deliver the “Five E’s” to
    our customers. In contrast to the sales teams at traditional
    department stores, our sales teams are not commissioned or
    brand-dedicated. Our prestige consultants are trained to work
    across all prestige lines and within our prestige
    “boutiques”, where customers can receive a makeover or
    skin analysis.



Distribution



We operate two distribution facilities. The first facility,
    located in Romeoville, Illinois, is approximately
    317,000 square feet in size, including an overflow
    facility. During fiscal 2008, we began operating a second
    distribution facility in Phoenix, Arizona that is approximately
    330,000 square feet in size.



Inventory is shipped from our suppliers to our distribution
    facilities. We carry over 21,000 products and replenish our
    stores with such products primarily in eaches (i.e.,less-than-casequantities), which allows us to






ship less than an entire case when only one or two of a
    particular product is required. Our distribution facilities use
    warehouse management and warehouse control software systems,
    which have been upgraded or installed in the last few years.
    Products are bar-coded and scanned using handheld
    radio-frequency devices as they move within the warehouse to
    ensure accuracy. Product is delivered to stores using contract
    carriers. One vendor currently provides store-ready orders that
    can be quickly forwarded to our stores. We use carton barcode
    labels to facilitate these shipments.



Information
    technology



We are committed to using technology to enhance our competitive
    position. We depend on a variety of information systems and
    technologies to maintain and improve our competitive position
    and to manage the operations of our growing store base. We rely
    on computer systems to provide information for all areas of our
    business, including supply chain, merchandising, POS,e-commerce,finance, accounting and human resources. Our core business
    systems consist mostly of a purchased software program that
    integrates with our internally developed software solutions. Our
    technology also includes a company-wide network that connects
    all corporate users, stores, and our distribution infrastructure
    and provides communications for credit card and daily polling of
    sales and merchandise movement at the store level. We intend to
    leverage our technology infrastructure and systems where
    appropriate to gain operational efficiencies through more
    effective use of our systems, people and processes. We update
    the technology supporting our stores, distribution
    infrastructure and corporate headquarters on a continual basis.
    We will continue to make investments in our information systems
    to facilitate our growth and enable us to enhance our
    competitive position.



Intellectual
    property



We have registered a number of trademarks in the United States,
    including Ulta Salon Cosmetics Fragrance (and design), Ulta.com,
    and Ulta Beauty and two related designs. The renewal dates for
    the identified marks are January 22, 2012 (Ulta Salon
    Cosmetics Fragrance (and design)), October 8, 2012
    (Ulta.com), July 10, 2017 (Ulta Beauty) and
    October 16, 2017 (the two Ulta Beauty related designs). All
    marks that are deemed material to our business have been
    registered in the United States and select foreign countries. We
    have applications pending for certain of these marks in Canada.



We believe our trademarks, especially those related to the Ulta
    brand, have significant value and are important to building
    brand recognition.



Government
    regulation



In our U.S. markets, we are affected by extensive laws,
    governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court
    decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and
    other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local
    levels in the United States. Our Ulta branded products are
    subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA),
    the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and State Attorneys General
    in the United States. Such regulations principally relate to the
    safety of our ingredients, proper labeling, advertising,
    packaging and marketing of our products.



Products classified as cosmetics (as defined in the Food, Drug
    and Cosmetic (FDC) Act) are not subject to pre-market approval
    by the FDA, but the products and the ingredients must be tested
    to ensure safety. The FDA also utilizes an “intended
    use” doctrine to determine whether a product is a drug or
    cosmetic by the labeling claims made for the product. Certain
    ingredients commonly used in cosmetics products such as
    sunscreens and acne treatment ingredients are classified asover-the-counterdrugs which have specific label requirements and allowable
    claims. The labeling of cosmetic products is subject to the
    requirements of the FDC Act, the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act
    and other FDA regulations.



The government regulations that most impact ourday-to-dayoperations are the labor and employment and taxation laws to
    which most retailers are typically subject. We are also subject
    to typical zoning and real estate land use restrictions and
    typical advertising and consumer protection laws (both federal
    and state). Our salon business is subject to state board
    regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists
    and our salon procedures.






In our store leases, we require our landlords to obtain all
    necessary zoning approvals and permits for the site to be used
    as a retail site and we also ask them to obtain any zoning
    approvals and permits for our specific use (but at times the
    responsibility for obtaining zoning approvals and permits for
    our specific use falls to us). We require our landlords to
    deliver a certificate of occupancy for any work they perform on
    our buildings or the shopping centers in which our stores are
    located. We are responsible for delivering a certificate of
    occupancy for any remodeling or build-outs that we perform and
    are responsible for complying with all applicable laws in
    connection with such construction projects or build-outs.



Associates



As of January 30, 2010, we employed approximately
    3,500 people on a full-time basis and approximately 6,800
    on a part-time basis. We have no collective bargaining
    agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and
    believe we have good relationships with our associates.



Available
    Information



Our principal website address is www.ulta.com. We make available
    at this address under investor relations (athttp://ir.ulta.com),free of charge, our proxy statement, annual report to
    shareholders, annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the SEC. Information available on our website is
    not incorporated by reference in and is not deemed a part of
    thisForm 10-K.In addition, our filings with the SEC may be accessed through
    the SEC’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval
    (EDGAR) system at www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any filed
    document at the SEC’s public reference rooms in
    Washington, D.C. at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330for further information about the public reference rooms. All
    statements made in any of our securities filings, including all
    forward-looking statements or information, are made as of the
    date of the document in which the statement is included, and we
    do not assume or undertake any obligation to update any of those
    statements or documents unless we are required to do so by law.

