Item 1.Business

Overview

Ulta Beauty (or Ulta, we, the
Company) is the largest beauty retailer that provides one-stop shopping for prestige, mass and salon products and salon services in the United States. We focus on providing affordable indulgence to our customers by combining unmatched product
breadth, value and convenience with the distinctive environment and experience of a specialty retailer. Key aspects of our business include:

One-Stop Shopping.Our customers can satisfy all of their beauty needs at Ulta. We offer a unique combination of over 20,000 prestige and mass beauty products organized by
category in a bright, open store environment. The beauty products are arranged in self-service displays and full-service boutiques in a way that encourages our customers to play, touch, test, learn and explore. We believe we offer the widest
selection of categories across prestige and mass cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body products and salon styling tools. We also offer a full-service salon and a wide range of salon haircare products in all of our stores.

Our Value Proposition.We believe our focus on delivering a compelling value proposition to our
customers across all of our product categories is fundamental to customer loyalty. For example, we run frequent promotions and coupons for our mass brands, gift-with-purchase offers and multi-product gift sets for our prestige brands, and a
comprehensive customer loyalty program.

An Off-Mall Location.Our stores are predominately
located in convenient, high-traffic locations such as power centers. Our typical store is approximately 10,000 square feet, including approximately 950 square feet dedicated to our full-service salon. Our displays, store design and open layout
provide the flexibility to respond to consumer trends and changes in our merchandising strategy.







We were founded in 1990 as a beauty retailer at a time when prestige, mass and salon products were sold
through distinct channels — department stores for prestige products, drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass products, and salons and authorized retail outlets for professional hair care products. After extensive research, we recognized an
opportunity to better satisfy how women want to shop for beauty products. We developed a unique retail approach by combining one-stop shopping, a compelling value proposition, convenient locations and an uplifting specialty retail experience. While
we are currently executing on the core elements of our business strategy, we plan to continually refine our approach in order to further enhance the shopping experience for our customers.

Our competitive strengths

We believe the following competitive strengths differentiate us
from our competitors and are critical to our continuing success:

Differentiated merchandising strategy with broad
appeal.We believe our broad selection of merchandise across categories, price points and brands offers a unique shopping experience for our customers. While the products we sell can be found in department stores,
specialty stores, salons, drug stores and mass merchandisers, we offer all of these products in one retail format so that our customer can find everything she needs in one shopping trip. We appeal to a wide range of customers by offering over 500
brands, such as Bare Minerals and Urban Decay cosmetics, Chanel and Estée Lauder fragrances, Redken and Matrix haircare, as well as Dermalogica and Philosophy skincare and Clarisonic and Hot Tools personal care appliances. We also offer
private label Ulta products in key categories, such as, cosmetics, skin care and bath. Because we offer a broad array of products in prestige, mass and salon, we appeal to a wide range of customers including women of all ages, demographics, and
lifestyles.

Our unique customer experience.We combine unmatched product breadth, value and convenience with the
distinctive environment and experience of a specialty retailer. We cater to the woman who loves to indulge in shopping for beauty products as well as the woman who is time constrained and comes to the store knowing exactly what she wants. Our
distribution infrastructure consistently delivers an in-stock rate of greater than 95%, allowing our customers to find the products they are looking for. Our well-trained beauty advisors are not commission-based and therefore can provide unbiased
and customized advice tailored to our customers’ needs. Our customer service strategy, store locations, layout and design create a unique shopping experience, which we believe increases both the frequency and length of our customers’
visits.

Retail format poised to benefit from shifting channel dynamics.Over the past several years, the
approximately $100 billion beauty products and salon services industry has experienced significant changes, including a shift in how manufacturers distribute and customers purchase beauty products. This has enabled the specialty retail channel to
grow at a greater rate than the industry overall since at least 2000. We are capitalizing on these trends by offering a primarily off-mall, service-oriented specialty retail concept with a comprehensive product mix across categories and price
points.

Loyal and active customer base.Approximately eleven million Ulta customers are members of our loyalty
programs. We utilize this valuable proprietary database to drive traffic, better understand our customers’ purchasing patterns and support new store site selection. We regularly employ a broad range of media, including digital, catalogs and
newspaper inserts to drive traffic to our stores as well as entertain and educate our customers.

Strong vendor relationships across product
categories.We have strong, active relationships with over 300 vendors, including Estée Lauder, Bare Minerals, Coty, L’Oréal and Procter & Gamble. We believe the scope of these
relationships, which span the three distinct beauty categories of prestige, mass and salon and which have taken years to develop, create a significant impediment for other retailers to replicate our model. We work closely with our vendors to market
both new and existing brands in a collaborative manner.

Experienced management team.We
have an experienced senior management team with extensive retail experience that brings a creative merchandising approach and a disciplined operating philosophy to our business. We continue to expand the depth of our management team at all levels
and in all functional areas to support our growth strategy.







Growth strategy

We intend to expand our presence as a leading retailer of beauty products and salon services by pursuing the following primary growth strategies:

Accelerate pace of new store expansion and grow to approximately 1,200 stores in the United States.We believe that over the long-term, we have the potential to grow our
store base to approximately 1,200 Ulta stores in the United States. Our internal real estate model takes into account a number of variables, including demographic and sociographic data as well as population density relative to maximum drive times,
economic and competitive factors. We plan to continue opening stores both in markets in which we currently operate and new markets. We have been successful in opening new stores in diverse markets across the United States, allowing us to accelerate
our new store growth rates consistent with our long-term target of 15% to 20%.

We opened 102 new stores during fiscal 2012, representing a 23%
increase in square footage growth and a 67% increase in the number of new stores opened compared to 61 new stores in fiscal 2011. We also remodeled 21 stores and relocated 3 stores in fiscal 2012. Our fiscal 2012 and 2011 new store program
represents primarily new stores opened in existing centers compared to prior years when the new store openings were more balanced between new and existing centers. This trend is expected to continue for several more years. The shift to more existing
centers had no impact on new store performance.



Fiscal Year20082009201020112012Total stores beginning of period249311346389449Stores opened63374761102Stores closed(1)(2)(4)(1)(1)Total stores end of period311346389449550Stores remodeled86131721Total square footage3,240,5793,613,8404,094,8084,747,1485,847,393Average square footage per store10,42010,44510,52610,57310,632

Expanding our offering by adding new products, brands and service.Our strategy is to
continue to expand our portfolio of products, brands and services both by capitalizing on the success of our existing vendor relationships and by identifying and developing new vendor relationships. Over the last several years we have added new
products from existing vendors across product categories. We have also added a number of new brands in recent years, most notably in our prestige category which is currently the beauty industry’s highest growth category. Brand additions include
Coach, Dolce and Gabbana, Cartier, Fendi, Chloe, Marc Jacobs, Oscar de la Renta and Thierry Mugler in fragrance; Dermalogica, Philosophy, Dr. Brandt, Juice Beauty, Vichy and La Roche-Posay; Benefit, Butter London, CK One, and Laura Geller in
cosmetics; and Carol’s Daughter, DermOrganic, Living Proof, and Ouidad in hair care. We also offer haircare services in our full service salons as well as skin and brow services in most of our stores. We plan to continue expanding our portfolio
of services in the future by establishing Ulta as a leading salon authority providing high quality and consistent services from our licensed stylists and introducing new beauty-related services.

Enhancing our successful loyalty programs.We have approximately eleven million active Ulta customers who are enrolled in
our loyalty programs. Loyalty member transactions represent more than fifty percent of our annual total net sales, and the transaction data demonstrates that loyalty members shop with higher frequency and spend more per visit as compared to
non-members. We currently operate two loyalty programs, ULTAmate Rewards and The Club at Ulta. We have been converting loyalty members from The Club at Ulta, a certificate program, to the ULTAmate Rewards program which is a points-based program.
Currently, approximately half of our stores are on the points-based program and we expect to roll out this program to additional markets in the future. Both loyalty programs provide a robust database of customer and shopping behavior. During 2012,
we implemented a new Customer Relationship Management tool to enable customer segmentation and one-on-one marketing communications tailored to our customers’ unique beauty needs. We believe our loyalty programs combined with our growing
Customer Relationship Management capabilities provide significant long-term opportunity for Ulta.







Broadening our marketing reach.We believe our marketing initiatives are a key
component of our success, providing an effective means to introduce new products, brands and services to our existing and potential new customers. We have historically utilized primarily direct mail advertising, catalogues and newspaper inserts to
communicate with our customers. Our national magazine print advertising campaign exposes potential new customers to our retail and digital businesses. We plan to continue to leverage our print marketing while expanding our reach into other marketing
channels, including digital marketing, social media and e-mail marketing. We plan to continue to focus on our in-store marketing and in store special events as an additional means of educating our customers and increasing the frequency of their
visits to our stores.

Enhancing and expanding our digital business.Our website serves two roles: to generate
direct channel sales and profits and to communicate with our customers in an interactive, enjoyable way to reinforce the Ulta brand and drive traffic to our stores and website. We continue to aggressively develop and add new website features and
functionality, marketing programs, product assortment and new brands and multi-channel integration points. We intend to establish ourselves over time as a leading online beauty resource by providing our customers with a rich online experience for
information on key trends and products, editorial content, expanded assortments, leading website features and functionality and social media content. Through our continued enhancements and multi-channel marketing initiatives, we believe we are well
positioned to capitalize on the growth of Internet sales of beauty products. We believe our website and retail stores provide our customers with an integrated multi-channel shopping experience and increased flexibility for their beauty buying needs.

Improving our operating margin.We plan to continue to improve our operating results by leveraging our existing
infrastructure and continually optimizing the efficiency of our operations. We will continue to make investments in our information systems to enable us to enhance our efficiency in areas such as merchandise planning and allocation, inventory
management, distribution and point of sale (POS) functions. We believe we will continue to improve our profitability by reducing our operating expenses as a percentage of net sales, in particular supply chain, general corporate overhead and fixed
store expenses.

Our market

We operate within the large and growing U.S. beauty products and salon services industry. This market represents approximately $100 billion in retail
sales, according to Euromonitor International and IBIS World Inc. The approximately $59 billion beauty products industry includes color cosmetics, haircare, fragrance, bath and body, skincare, salon styling tools and other toiletries. Within this
market, we compete across all major categories as well as a range of price points by offering prestige, mass and salon products. The approximately $41 billion salon services industry consists of hair, skin and nail services.

Distribution for beauty products is varied. Prestige products are typically purchased in department or specialty stores, while mass products and staple
items are generally purchased at drug stores, food retail stores and mass merchandisers. In addition, salon haircare products are sold in salons and authorized professional retail outlets.

Competition

Our major competitors for prestige and mass products include traditional
department stores such as Macy’s and Nordstrom, specialty stores such as Sephora and Bath & Body Works, drug stores such as CVS/pharmacy and Walgreens, mass merchandisers such as Target and Wal-Mart and the online businesses of the
aforementioned retailers. We believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality and assortment of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our customers’ shopping experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop
destinations for beauty products and salon services.

The market for salon services and products is highly fragmented. Our competitors for
salon services and products include Regis Corp., Sally Beauty, JCPenney salons and independent salons.

Stores

Our stores are predominately located in convenient, high-traffic locations such as power centers. Our typical store is approximately 10,000 square feet,
including approximately 950 square feet dedicated to our full-service salon. We opened 102 stores in fiscal 2012 and the average investment required to open a new Ulta store is







approximately $1.0 million, which includes capital investments, net of landlord contributions, pre-opening expenses, and initial inventory, net of payables. However, our net investment required
to open new stores and the net sales generated by new stores may vary depending on a number of factors, including geographic location. As of February 2, 2013, we operated 550 stores in 45 states.

Store remodel program

Our retail store
concept, including physical layout, displays, lighting and quality of finishes, has continued to evolve over time to match the rising expectations of our customers and to keep pace with our merchandising and operating strategies. We have a formal
store remodel program in place to update our older stores to provide a consistent shopping experience across all of our locations. We remodeled 21 stores in fiscal 2012. Our newer store prototype, including new stores and remodels, represents
approximately 90% of our store base. We continue to evolve this program to update older stores with a consistent look and experience to drive additional customer traffic and increase our sales and profitability. The remodel store selection process
is subject to the same discipline as our new store real estate decision process. Our focus is to remodel the oldest, highest performing stores first, subject to criteria such as rate of return, lease terms, market performance and quality of real
estate. We also consider remodeling all relevant stores in a particular geography when appropriate, which allows us to present a consistent brand identity across an entire market. The average investment to remodel a store in fiscal 2012 was
approximately $0.9 million. Each remodel takes approximately three months to complete, during which time we keep the store open.

Salon

We operate full-service salons in all of our stores. Our current Ulta store format includes an open and modern salon area with
approximately eight to ten stations. The entire salon area is approximately 950 square feet with a concierge desk, skin treatment room or dedicated skin treatment area, semi-private shampoo and hair color processing areas. Each salon is a
full-service salon offering haircuts, hair coloring and permanent texture, with most salons also providing facials and waxing. We continue to expand our service offering, adding services such as gel manicures, microdermabrasion and hair extensions
to select locations. We employ licensed professional stylists and estheticians who offer highly skilled services as well as an educational experience, including consultations, styling lessons, skincare regimens, and at-home care recommendations.

Ulta.com

We established
Ulta.com to give our customers an integrated multi-channel buying experience by providing them with an opportunity to access product offerings and information beyond our brick-and-mortar retail stores. The Ulta.com website and experience supports
the key elements of the Ulta brand proposition and provides access to more than 16,000 beauty products from hundreds of brands. As Ulta.com continues to grow in terms of functionality and content, we expect it to become an even greater element in
Ulta’s marketing programs and a more important resource for our customers to access product and store information, beauty trends and techniques, and buy from a larger assortment of product offerings.

Merchandising

Strategy

We focus on offering one of the most extensive product and brand selections in our industry, including a broad assortment of branded
and private label beauty products in cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body products and salon styling tools. A typical Ulta store carries over 20,000 prestige and mass beauty products. We present these products in an assisted
self-service environment using centrally produced planograms (detailed schematics showing product placement in the store) and promotional merchandising planners. Our merchandising team continually monitors current fashion trends, historical sales
trends and new product launches to keep Ulta’s product assortment fresh and relevant to our customers. We believe our broad selection of merchandise, from moderate-priced brands to higher-end prestige brands, offers a unique shopping experience
for our customers. The products we sell can also be found in department stores, specialty stores, salons, mass merchandisers and drug stores, but we offer all of these products in one retail format so that our customer can







find everything she needs in one stop. We believe we offer a compelling value proposition to our customers across all of our product categories. For example, we run frequent promotions and gift
coupons for our mass brands, gift-with-purchase offers and multi-product gift sets for our prestige brands, and a comprehensive customer loyalty program.

We believe our private label products are a strategically important category for growth and profit contribution. Our objective is to provide quality, trend-right private label products to continue to
strengthen our customers’ perception of Ulta as a contemporary beauty destination. Ulta manages the full development cycle of these products from concept through production in order to deliver differentiated packaging and formulas to build
brand image. Current Ulta cosmetics and bath brands have a strong following and we may expand our private label products into additional categories.

Category mix

We offer products in the following categories:



ŸCosmetics, which includes products for the face, eyes, cheeks, lips and nails;



ŸHaircare, which includes shampoos, conditioners, styling products, and hair accessories;



ŸSalon styling tools, which includes hair dryers, curling irons and flat irons;



ŸSkincare and bath and body, which includes products for the face, hands and body;



ŸFragrance for both men and women;



ŸPrivate label, consisting of Ulta branded cosmetics, skincare, bath and body products and haircare; and



ŸOther, including candles, home fragrance products and other miscellaneous health and beauty products.

Organization

Our merchandising
team consists of a Senior Vice President of Merchandising overseeing a team of category Vice Presidents and their team of buyers. Our merchandising team works with our centralized merchandise planning and forecasting group to ensure a consistent
execution across our store base and e-commerce platform.

Our planogram department assists the merchants and replenishment team to keep new
products flowing into stores on a timely basis. All major product categories undergo planogram revisions on a regular basis and adjustments are made to assortment mix and product placement based on current sales trends.

Our visual department works with our merchandising team on strategic placement of promotional merchandise, along with functional and educational signage
and creative product presentation standards, in all of our stores. All stores receive a centrally produced promotional planner to ensure consistent implementation of our marketing programs.

Planning and allocation

We have developed a disciplined approach to buying and a
dynamic inventory planning and allocation process to support our merchandising strategy. We centrally manage product replenishment to our stores through our merchandise planning group. This group serves as a strategic partner to, and provides
financial oversight of, the merchandising team. The merchandising team creates a sales forecast by category for the year. Our merchandise planning group creates an open-to-buy plan, approved by senior executives, for each product category. The
open-to-buy plan is updated weekly with POS data, receipts and inventory levels and is used throughout the year to balance buying opportunities and inventory return on investment. We believe this structure maximizes our buying opportunities while
maintaining organizational and financial control. Regularly replenished products are presented consistently in all stores utilizing a merchandising planogram process. POS data is used to calculate sales forecasts and to determine replenishment
levels. We determine promotional product replenishment levels using sales histories from similar or comparable events. To ensure our inventory remains productive, our planning and replenishment group, along with senior executives, monitors the
levels of clearance and aged inventory in our stores on a weekly basis.







Vendor relationships

We have close relationships with our over 300 vendors. There continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry. Our top ten vendors represent approximately 53% of our total annual
sales. These include vendors across all product categories, such as Bare Minerals, Estee Lauder, L’Oréal, Procter & Gamble, and Coty, among others. We believe our vendors view us as a significant distribution channel for growth
and brand enhancement.

Marketing and advertising

Marketing strategy

We employ a multi-faceted marketing strategy to increase brand
awareness, drive traffic to our stores and e-commerce website, acquire new customers, improve customer retention and increase frequency of shopping. We communicate with our customers and prospective customers through multiple vehicles. Our primary
marketing expenditure is in direct mail catalogs and free-standing newspaper inserts which highlight the breadth of our selection of prestige, mass and salon beauty products, new products and services and special offers. We advertise in national
beauty and lifestyle magazines and execute a comprehensive public relations strategy to enhance Ulta’s reputation as a beauty destination, increase brand awareness, support our charitable efforts on behalf of The Breast Cancer Research
Foundation and drive awareness of new products, in-store events and new store openings.

Our loyalty programs are an important tool to increase
retention of existing customers and to enhance their loyalty to the Ulta brand. We currently operate two loyalty programs, ULTAmate Rewards and The Club at Ulta. Approximately 11 million active customers are enrolled in these loyalty
programs, generating more than 50 percent of Ulta’s sales. The Club at Ulta is a certificate program offering customers reward certificates for free beauty products based on their level of purchases. Customers earn reward
certificates to redeem during specific promotional periods throughout the year. ULTAmate Rewards is a points-based program in which customers earn points based on their purchases. Points earned are valid for one year and may be redeemed on
any product or select salon services. We expect to convert all loyalty program members to the ULTAmate Rewards program over time. Both loyalty programs provide us with rich customer data which continue to fuel our direct marketing
programs, with the long term goal of driving higher share of our customers’ spend in the beauty category. During 2012 we implemented the first phase of a new Customer Relationship Management solution to enable more sophisticated mining of
this customer data in our loyalty member database as well as greater personalization of our marketing.

A growing percentage of our marketing
expense is directed at our digital marketing strategy as a highly effective channel to communicate with existing customers and reach customers who are not familiar with Ulta or who haven’t yet shopped with us. Our online marketing strategy
includes search engine optimization, paid search, mobile advertising, affiliate relationships, social media, display advertising, and other digital marketing channels. Ulta’s email marketing programs are effective in communicating with and
driving sales from online and retail store customers.

Staffing and operations

Retail

Our current Ulta store format is staffed with a general manager, a salon
manager, three to four assistant managers, and approximately twenty full and part-time associates, including approximately six to eight prestige consultants and eight to ten licensed salon professionals. The management team in each store reports to
the general manager. The general manager oversees all store activities including salon management, inventory management, merchandising, cash management, scheduling, hiring and guest services. Members of store management receive bonuses depending on
their position and based upon various metrics. Each general manager reports to a district manager, who in turn reports to a Regional Vice President of Operations who in turn reports to the Senior Vice President of Operations who in turn reports to
our Chief Executive Officer. Each store team receives additional support from time to time from recruiting specialists for the retail and salon operations, regionally based human resource managers, a field loss prevention team, salon technical
trainers, management trainers and vendors.







Ulta stores are open seven days a week, eleven hours a day, Monday through Saturday, and seven hours on
Sunday. Our stores have extended hours during the holiday season.

Salon

A typical salon is staffed with eight to ten licensed salon professionals, including a salon manager, six stylists, and one to two estheticians. Our
higher producing salons have a guest coordinator and an assistant manager. Our salon technical trainers and vendor education classes create a comprehensive educational program for approximately 4,000 Ulta salon professionals.

Training and development

Our
success is dependent in part on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate qualified associates at all levels of the organization. We have developed a corporate culture that enables individual store managers to make store-level operating
decisions and consistently rewards their success. We are committed to improving the skills and careers of our workforce and providing advancement opportunities for our associates. Our associates and management teams are essential to our store
expansion strategy. We use a combination of existing managers, promoted associates and outside hires to support our new stores.

All of our
associates participate in an interactive new-hire orientation through which each associate becomes acquainted with Ulta’s purpose and values. Training for new store managers, prestige consultants and sales associates familiarizes them with our
beauty products and sales, opening and closing routines, guest service expectations, our loss prevention policy and procedures, and our culture. We provide continuing education to salon professionals and retail associates throughout their careers at
Ulta. Our learning management system allows us to provide ongoing training to all associates to continually enhance their product knowledge, technical skills and guest service expertise. In contrast to the sales teams at traditional department
stores, our retail sales teams are not commissioned. Our prestige consultants are trained to work across all prestige lines and within our prestige “boutiques”, where customers can receive makeup demonstrations and skin analysis.

Distribution

We operate
three distribution facilities. The first facility, located in Romeoville, Illinois, is approximately 317,000 square feet in size, including an overflow facility. The second distribution facility is in Phoenix, Arizona and is approximately 437,000
square feet in size. The third distribution center, located in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, opened in April 2012 to support our future growth needs. The Chambersburg warehouse contains approximately 373,000 square feet.

Inventory is shipped from our suppliers to our distribution facilities. We carry over 20,000 products and replenish our stores with such products
primarily in eaches (i.e., less-than-case quantities), which allows us to ship less than an entire case when only one or two of a particular product is required. Our distribution facilities use warehouse management and warehouse control software
systems, which have been upgraded or installed in the last three years. Store replenishment order selection is performed using pick-to-light processing technologies. Product is delivered to stores using a broad network of contract and local pool
(final mile) carriers.

Information technology

We are committed to using technology to enhance our competitive position. We depend on a variety of information systems and technologies to maintain and improve our competitive position and to manage the
operations of our growing store base. We rely on computer systems to provide information for all areas of our business, including supply chain, merchandising, POS, e-commerce, finance, accounting and human resources. Our core business systems
consist mostly of a purchased software program that integrates with our internally developed software solutions. Our technology also includes a company-wide network that connects all corporate users, stores, and our distribution infrastructure and
provides communications for credit card and daily polling of sales and merchandise movement at the store level. We intend to leverage our technology infrastructure and systems where appropriate to gain operational efficiencies through more effective
use of our systems, people and processes. We update the technology supporting our stores, distribution infrastructure and corporate headquarters







on a continual basis. We will continue to make investments in our information systems to facilitate our growth and enable us to enhance our competitive position.

Intellectual property

We have
registered over 30 trademarks in the United States and other countries. The majority of our trademark registrations contain the ULTA mark, including Ulta Salon Cosmetics Fragrance (and design), Ulta.com, and Ulta Beauty and two related designs. We
maintain our marks on a docket system to monitor filing deadlines for renewal and continued validity. All marks that are deemed material to our business have been applied for or registered in the United States and select foreign countries, including
Canada.

We believe our trademarks, especially those related to the Ulta brand, have significant value and are important to building brand
recognition.

Government regulation

In our U.S. markets, we are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints may
exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States. The cosmetic, dietary supplement, food and over-the-counter (OTC) drug products we sell in our stores, including our Ulta branded products, are subject to regulation by the Food and
Drug Administration (FDA), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and State Attorneys General (AG) in the United States. Such regulations principally relate to the safety of ingredients, proper labeling, manufacturing, advertising, packaging and
distribution of the products.

Products classified as cosmetics (as defined in the Food, Drug and Cosmetic (FDC) Act) are not subject to
pre-market approval by the FDA, but the products and the ingredients must generally be safe and must be properly manufactured and labeled. Certain products, such as sunscreens and acne treatments, are classified as OTC drugs, and certain ingestible
products, such as vitamins and minerals, are classified as dietary supplements. Both OTC drugs and dietary supplements have specific ingredients, labeling and manufacturing requirements. The labeling of these products is subject to the requirements
of the FDC Act and the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act. Further, claims we make in advertising, including claims about the safety or efficacy of products, pricing claims and environmental claims, are subject to regulation by the FTC and State
AG’s who generally prohibit deceptive practices.

The government regulations that most impact our day-to-day operations are the labor and
employment and taxation laws to which most retailers are typically subject. We are also subject to typical zoning and real estate land use restrictions and typical advertising and consumer protection laws (both federal and state). Our salon business
is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures.

In our store leases, we
require our landlords to obtain all necessary zoning approvals and permits for the site to be used as a retail site and we also ask them to obtain any zoning approvals and permits for our specific use (but at times the responsibility for obtaining
zoning approvals and permits for our specific use falls to us). We require our landlords to deliver a certificate of occupancy for any work they perform on our buildings or the shopping centers in which our stores are located. We are responsible for
delivering a certificate of occupancy for any remodeling or build-outs that we perform and are responsible for complying with all applicable laws in connection with such construction projects or build-outs.

Associates

As of February 2, 2013,
we employed approximately 5,600 people on a full-time basis and approximately 10,500 on a part-time basis. We have no collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we have good relationships with our
associates.

Available Information

Our principal website address is www.ulta.com. We make available at this address under investor relations (at http://ir.ulta.com), free of charge, our proxy statement, annual report to shareholders,
annual report on







Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with
or furnished to the SEC. Information available on our website is not incorporated by reference in and is not deemed a part of this Form 10-K. In addition, our filings with the SEC may be accessed through the SEC’s Electronic Data
Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system at www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any filed document at the SEC’s public reference rooms in Washington, D.C. at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference rooms. All statements made in any of our securities filings, including all forward-looking statements or information, are made as of the date of the document in which the statement is
included, and we do not assume or undertake any obligation to update any of those statements or documents unless we are required to do so by law.



