Item 1.Business



Overview



Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. is the largest
    beauty retailer that provides one-stop shopping for prestige,
    mass and salon products and salon services in the United States.
    We focus on providing affordable indulgence to our customers by
    combining the product breadth, value and convenience of a beauty
    superstore with the distinctive environment and experience of a
    specialty retailer. Key aspects of our business include:



One-Stop Shopping.Our customers can satisfy
    all of their beauty needs at Ulta. We offer a unique combination
    of over 21,000 prestige and mass beauty products organized by
    category in bright, open, self-service displays to encourage our
    customers to play, touch, test, learn and explore. We believe we
    offer the widest selection of categories across prestige and
    mass cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body
    products and salon styling tools. We also offer a full-service
    salon and a wide range of salon haircare products in all of our
    stores.



Our Value Proposition.We believe our focus on
    delivering a compelling value proposition to our customers
    across all of our product categories is fundamental to our
    customer loyalty. For example, we run frequent promotions and
    gift coupons for our mass brands, gift-with-purchase offers and
    multi-product gift sets for our prestige brands, and a
    comprehensive customer loyalty program. We also maintain a
    strategic value relationship with others in the category through
    competitive pricing and promotion.



An Off-Mall Location.We are conveniently
    located in high-traffic, primarily off-mall locations such as
    power centers and lifestyle centers with other destination
    retailers. Our typical store is approximately 10,000 square
    feet, including approximately 950 square feet dedicated to
    our full-service salon. Our displays, store design and open
    layout allow us the flexibility to respond to consumer trends
    and changes in our merchandising strategy.





We were founded in 1990 as a discount beauty retailer at a time
    when prestige, mass and salon products were sold through
    distinct channels — department stores for prestige
    products, drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass products,
    and salons and authorized retail outlets for professional hair
    care products. After extensive research, we recognized an
    opportunity to better satisfy how a woman wanted to shop for
    beauty products. This led to what we believe to be a unique
    retail approach that focuses on all aspects of how women prefer
    to shop for beauty products by combining the fundamental
    elements of a beauty superstore, including one-stop shopping, a
    compelling value proposition and convenient locations, together
    with an uplifting specialty retail experience. While we are
    currently executing on the core elements of our business
    strategy, we plan to continually refine our approach in order to
    further enhance the shopping experience for our customers.



Our
    competitive strengths



We believe the following competitive strengths differentiate us
    from our competitors and are critical to our continuing success:



Differentiated merchandising strategy with broad
    appeal.We believe our broad selection of
    merchandise across categories, price points and brands offers a
    unique shopping experience for our customers. While the products
    we sell can be found in department stores, specialty stores,
    salons, drug stores and mass merchandisers, we offer all of
    these products in one retail format so that our customer can
    find everything she needs in one shopping trip. We appeal to a
    wide range of customers by offering over 500 brands, such as
    Bare Escentuals cosmetics, Chanel and Estée Lauder
    fragrances, L’Oréal haircare and cosmetics and Paul
    Mitchell haircare. We also have private label Ulta offerings in
    key categories. Because our offerings span a broad array of
    product categories in prestige, mass and salon, we appeal to a
    wide range of customers including women of all ages,
    demographics, and lifestyles.



Our unique customer experience.We combine the
    value and convenience of a beauty superstore with the
    distinctive environment and experience of a specialty retailer.
    We cater to the woman who loves to indulge in shopping for
    beauty products as well as the woman who is time constrained and
    comes to the store knowing exactly what she wants. Our
    distribution infrastructure consistently delivers a greater than
    95% in-stock rate, so our customers know they will find the
    products they are looking for. Our well-trained beauty
    consultants are not commission-based or brand-dedicated and
    therefore can provide unbiased and customized advice tailored to
    our customers’ needs. Together with our customer service
    strategy, our store locations, layout and design help create our
    unique retail shopping experience, which we believe increases
    both the frequency and length of our customers’ visits.



Retail format poised to benefit from shifting channel
    dynamics.Over the past several years, the
    approximately $96 billion beauty products and salon
    services industry has experienced significant changes, including
    a shift in how manufacturers distribute and customers purchase
    beauty products. This has enabled the specialty retail channel
    in which we operate to grow at a greater rate than the industry
    overall since at least 2000. We are capitalizing on these trends
    by offering a primarily off-mall, service-oriented specialty
    retail concept with a comprehensive product mix across
    categories and price points.



Loyal and active customer base.We have almost
    8 million customer loyalty program members. We utilize this
    valuable proprietary database to drive traffic, better
    understand our customers’ purchasing patterns and support
    new store site selection. We regularly distribute catalogs and
    newspaper inserts to entertain and educate our customers and,
    most importantly, to drive traffic to our stores.



Strong vendor relationships across product
    categories.We have strong, active relationships
    with over 300 vendors, including Estée Lauder, Bare
    Escentuals, Coty, L’Oréal and Procter &
    Gamble. We believe the scope and extent of these relationships,
    which span the three distinct beauty categories of prestige,
    mass and salon and have taken years to develop, create a
    significant impediment for other retailers to replicate our
    model. These relationships also frequently afford us the
    opportunity to work closely with our vendors to market both new
    and existing brands in a collaborative manner.



Experienced management team.We have an
    experienced senior management team with extensive retail
    experience that brings a creative merchandising approach and a
    disciplined operating philosophy to our





business. Chuck Rubin was appointed President, Chief Operating
    Officer and a member of the Board of Directors effective
    May 10, 2010 and assumed the role of Chief Executive
    Officer on September 2, 2010. Mr. Rubin has over
    30 years of experience in the retail industry including
    senior executive level operating, merchandising and marketing
    management roles as well as partner level consulting roles
    across retail formats ande-commercebusinesses. Mr. Rubin along with Gregg Bodnar, our Chief
    Financial Officer, lead our senior management team. Over the
    past several years, we have significantly expanded the depth of
    our management team at all levels and in all functional areas to
    support our growth strategy.



Growth
    strategy



We intend to expand our presence as a leading retailer of beauty
    products and salon services by pursuing the following primary
    growth strategies:



Growing our store base to over 1,000 stores in the United
    States.We continue to believe that over the
    long-term, we have the potential to grow our store base to over
    1,000 Ulta stores in the United States. Our internal real estate
    model takes into account a number of variables, including
    demographic and sociographic data as well as population density
    relative to maximum drive times, economic and competitive
    factors. We plan to continue opening stores both in markets in
    which we currently operate and new markets. As the economy
    recovers, we believe our successful track record of opening new
    stores in diverse markets across the United States will allow us
    to increase our new store growth rates back to historical levels
    consistent with our long-term target of 15% to 20%.



We opened 47 new stores during fiscal 2010, representing a 13%
    increase in square footage growth and a 27% increase in the
    number of new stores opened compared to 37 in fiscal 2009. We
    also remodeled 13 stores and relocated 5 stores in fiscal 2010.
    The 2009 new store program was reduced primarily due to the
    uncertainty in the economy and the decline in high-quality
    commercial real estate projects that we typically target for our
    new store locations. Our fiscal 2010 new store program
    represents primarily new stores opened in existing centers
    compared to prior years when the new store openings were more
    balanced between new and existing centers. This trend is
    expected to continue for several more years. The shift to more
    existing centers had no impact on new store performance.



Fiscal Year20062007200820092010Total stores beginning of period167196249311346Stores opened3153633747Stores closed(2)—(1)(2)(4)Total stores end of period196249311346389Stores remodeled7178613Total square footage2,023,3052,589,2443,240,5793,613,8404,094,808Average square footage per store10,32310,39910,42010,44510,526





Increasing our sales and profitability by expanding our
    product, brand and service offerings.Our
    strategy is to continue to expand our portfolio of products,
    brands and services both by capitalizing on the success of our
    existing vendor relationships and by identifying and developing
    new supply sources. Over the last several years we have added
    new products from existing vendors across product categories. We
    have also added a number of new brands in recent years, most
    notably in our prestige category which is currently the beauty
    industry’s highest growth category. Brand additions include
    Juicy Couture, Dolce and Gabanna, and Coach Poppy in fragrance,
    Dermalogica, Murad and Philosophy in skin care, Benefit, Cargo
    and Tarte in cosmetics and Pureology in hair care. We also offer
    haircare services in our full service salons as well as skin and
    brow services in each of our stores. We plan to continue
    expanding our portfolio of services in the future by
    establishing Ulta as a leading salon authority providing high
    quality and consistent services from our licensed stylists and
    introducing new beauty-related services.



Enhancing our successful loyalty program.We
    have almost 8 million active customer loyalty members who
    are enrolled in our loyalty programs. Loyalty member
    transactions represent more than 50% of our annual





total net sales, and the transaction data demonstrates that
    loyalty members shop with higher frequency and spend more per
    visit as compared to non-members. We have been converting
    loyalty members from our National certificate program to the
    ULTAmate Rewards program which is a points-based program.
    Currently slightly more than 20% of our stores are on the
    points-based program. Both loyalty programs provide a robust
    database of information relative to customer information and
    shopping behavior which provides a significant long-term
    opportunity for CRM applications including enabling customer
    segmentation andone-on-onemarketing communications tailored to our customers’ unique
    beauty needs.



Broaden our marketing channels.We believe a
    key component of our success is the brand exposure we get from
    our marketing initiatives, which provide an effective means to
    introduce new products, brands and services to our existing and
    potential new customers. We have, historically, utilized
    primarily direct mail advertising, catalogues and newspaper
    inserts to communicate with our customers. Our national magazine
    print advertising campaign exposes potential new customers to
    our retail ande-commercebusinesses. We plan to continue to leverage our print marketing
    while expanding our reach into other marketing channels
    including television, digital, social media ande-mailmarketing. We also believe we have an opportunity to increase
    our in-store marketing efforts as an additional means of
    educating our customers and increasing the frequency of their
    visits to our stores.



Enhancing and expanding oure-commercebusiness.Our website serves two roles: to
    generate direct channel sales and profits and as a vehicle to
    communicate with our customers in an interactive, enjoyable way
    to reinforce the Ulta brand and drive traffic to our stores. We
    continue to aggressively develop and add new website features
    and functionality, marketing programs, product assortment and
    new brands, and multi-channel integration points. We intend to
    establish ourselves over time as a leading online beauty
    resource for women by providing our customers with a rich online
    experience for information on key trends and products, editorial
    content, expanded assortments, leading website features and
    functionality, and social media content. Through our continued
    enhancements and multi-channel marketing initiatives, we believe
    we are well positioned to capitalize on the growth of Internet
    sales of beauty products. We believe our website and retail
    stores provide our customers with an integrated multi-channel
    shopping experience and increased flexibility for their beauty
    buying needs.



Improving our profitability by leveraging our fixed
    costs.We plan to continue to improve our
    operating results by leveraging our existing infrastructure and
    continually optimizing our operations. We will continue to make
    investments in our information systems to enable us to enhance
    our efficiency in areas such as merchandise planning and
    allocation, inventory management, distribution and point of sale
    (POS) functions. We believe we will continue to improve our
    profitability by reducing our operating expenses as a percentage
    of net sales, in particular supply chain, general corporate
    overhead and fixed store expenses.



Our
    market



We operate within the large and steadily growing
    U.S. beauty products and salon services industry. This
    market represents approximately $96 billion in retail
    sales, according to Euromonitor International and IBIS World
    Inc. The approximately $52 billion beauty products industry
    includes color cosmetics, haircare, fragrance, bath and body,
    skincare, salon styling tools and other toiletries. Within this
    market, we compete across all major categories as well as a
    range of price points by offering prestige, mass and salon
    products. The approximately $44 billion salon services
    industry consists of hair, face and nail services.



Distribution for beauty products is varied. Prestige products
    are typically purchased in department or specialty stores, while
    mass products and staple items are generally purchased at drug
    stores, food retail stores and mass merchandisers. In addition,
    salon haircare products are sold in salons and authorized
    professional retail outlets.



Competition



Our major competitors for prestige and mass products include
    traditional department stores such as Macy’s and Nordstrom,
    specialty stores such as Sephora and Bath & Body
    Works, drug stores such as CVS/pharmacy and Walgreens and mass
    merchandisers such as Target and Wal-Mart. We believe the
    principal bases upon which we compete are the quality and
    assortment of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of
    our





customers’ shopping experience and the convenience of our
    stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon
    services.



The market for salon services and products is highly fragmented.
    Our competitors for salon services and products include Regis
    Corp., Sally Beauty, JCPenney salons and independent salons.



Key
    trends



We believe an important shift is occurring in the distribution
    of beauty products. Department stores, which have traditionally
    been the primary distribution channel for prestige beauty
    products, have been meaningfully affected by changing consumer
    preferences and industry consolidation over the past decade. We
    believe women, particularly younger generations, tend to find
    department stores intimidating, high-pressured and hinder a
    multi-brand shopping experience and, as such, are choosing to
    shop elsewhere for their beauty care needs. According to
    industry sources, 55% of women aged 18 to 24 shop in specialty
    stores, compared to 40% of women aged 18 to 64. Over the past
    ten years, department stores have lost significant market share
    to specialty stores in apparel, and we believe the beauty
    category is undergoing a similar shift in retail channels. We
    believe women are seeking a shopping experience that provides
    something different, a place to experiment, learn about various
    products, find what they want and indulge themselves. A recent
    Kline & Company report found that consumers seek out
    specialty retailers for a number of reasons including that
    specialty stores carry more niche products, the merchandise and
    retail environment is more fun and provides the ability to shop
    across product lines and the customer service is better than in
    other channels.



As a result of this market transformation, there has been an
    increase in the number of beauty brands pursuing new
    distribution channels for their products, such as specialty
    retail, spas and salons, direct response television (i.e., home
    shopping and infomercials) and the Internet. In addition, many
    smaller brands are selling their products through these channels
    due to the high fixed costs associated with operating in most
    department stores and to capitalize on consumers’ growing
    propensity to shop in these channels. According to industry
    sources, color cosmetics sales through these channels are
    projected to grow at a higher rate than sales of color cosmetics
    in total. There are a growing number of brands that have built
    significant consumer awareness and sales by initially offering
    their products on direct response television. We benefit from
    offering brands that sell their products through this channel,
    as we experience increased store traffic and sales after these
    brands appear on television.



Historically, manufacturers have distributed their products
    through distinct channels — department stores for
    prestige products, drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass
    products, and salons and authorized retail outlets for
    professional hair care products. We believe women are
    increasingly shopping across retail channels as well as
    purchasing a combination of prestige and mass beauty products.
    We attribute this trend to a number of factors, including the
    growing availability of prestige brands outside of department
    stores and increased innovation in mass products. Based on the
    competitive environment in which we operate, we believe that we
    have been at the forefront of breaking down the industry’s
    historical distribution paradigm by combining a wide range of
    beauty products, categories and price points under one roof. Our
    strategy reflects a more customer-centric model of how women
    prefer to shop today for their beauty needs.



Major growth drivers for the industry include favorable consumer
    spending trends, product innovation and growth of certain
    population segments.



•Baby Boomers (born between 1946 and 1964):  Baby
    Boomers have larger disposable incomes and are increasing their
    spending on personal care as well as health and wellness. The
    aging of the Baby Boomer generation is also influencing product
    innovation and demand for anti-aging products and cosmetic
    procedures.•Generation X (born between 1965 and 1976):  Generation
    X is entering their peak earning years and represents a
    significant contributor to overall consumer spending, including
    beauty products. A recent survey by American Express showed that
    Generation X spends 60% more on beauty products than Baby
    Boomers. In addition, while prior generations grew up shopping
    in department stores and general





merchandisers, Generation X has grown up shopping in specialty
    stores and we believe seeks a retail environment that combines a
    compelling experience, functionality, variety and location.



•Generation Y (born between 1977 and 1994):  According
    to the United States Census Bureau data, the 20 to
    34 year-old age group is expected to grow by approximately
    10% from 2003 to 2015. As Generation Y continues to enter the
    workforce, they will have increased disposable income to spend
    on beauty products.



We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on these trends
    and capture additional market share in the industry. We believe
    we have demonstrated an ability to provide a differentiated
    store experience for customers as well as offer a breadth and
    depth of merchandise previously unavailable from more
    traditional beauty retailers.



Stores



We are conveniently located in high-traffic, primarily off-mall
    locations such as power centers and lifestyle centers with other
    destination retailers. Our typical store is approximately
    10,000 square feet, including approximately 950 square
    feet dedicated to our full-service salon. We opened 47 stores in
    fiscal 2010 and the average investment required to open a new
    Ulta store is approximately $0.9 million, which includes
    capital investments, net of landlord contributions, pre-opening
    expenses, and initial inventory, net of payables. However, our
    net investment required to open new stores and the net sales
    generated by new stores may vary depending on a number of
    factors, including geographic location. As of January 29,
    2011, we operated 389 stores in 40 states.



Store
    remodel program





Salon



We operate full-service salons in all of our stores. Our current
    Ulta store format includes an open and modern salon area with
    eight to ten stations. The entire salon area is approximately
    950 square feet with a concierge desk, esthetics room,
    semi-private shampoo and hair color processing areas. Each salon
    is a full-service salon offering hair cuts, hair coloring and
    permanent texture, with most salons also providing facials and
    waxing. We employ licensed professional stylists and
    estheticians that offer highly skilled services as well as an
    educational experience, including consultations, styling
    lessons, skincare regimens, and at-home care recommendations.





Ulta.com



We established Ulta.com to give our customers an integrated
    multi-channel buying experience by providing them with an
    opportunity to access product offerings and information beyond
    ourbrick-and-mortarretail stores. The Ulta.com website and experience supports the
    key elements of the Ulta brand proposition and provides access
    to more than 13,000 beauty products from hundreds of brands. As
    Ulta.com continues to grow in terms of functionality and
    content, it will become an even greater element in Ulta’s
    marketing programs and a more important resource for our
    customers to access product and store information, beauty trends
    and techniques, and buy from a larger assortment of product
    offerings.



Merchandising



Strategy





We believe our private label products are a strategically
    important category for growth and profit contribution. Our
    objective is to provide quality, trend-right private label
    products at a good value to continue to strengthen our
    customers’ perception of Ulta as a contemporary beauty
    destination. Ulta manages the full development cycle of these
    products from concept through production in order to deliver
    differentiated packaging and formulas to build brand image.
    Current Ulta cosmetics and bath brands have a strong following
    and we may expand our private label products into additional
    categories.



The
    Five E’s



In addition to offering one of the most extensive product and
    brand selections in our industry, we strive to offer an
    uplifting shopping experience through what we refer to as
    “The Five E’s”: Escape, Education, Entertainment,
    Esthetics and Empowerment.



•Escape.We strive to offer our customers a
    timely escape from the stresses of daily life in a welcoming and
    approachable environment. Our customer can immerse herself in
    our extensive product selection, indulge herself in our hair or
    skin treatments, or discover new and exciting products in an
    interactive setting. We provide a shopping experience without
    the intimidating, commission-oriented and brand-dedicated sales
    approach that we believe is found in most department stores and
    with a level of service that we believe is typically unavailable
    in drug stores and mass merchandisers.•Education.We staff our stores with a team of
    well-trained beauty consultants and professionally licensed
    estheticians and stylists whose mission is to educate, inform
    and advise our customers regarding their beauty needs. We also
    provide product education through demonstrations, in-store
    videos and informational displays. Our focus on educating our
    customer reinforces our authority as her primary resource for
    beauty products and our credibility as a provider of consistent,
    high-quality salon services. Our beauty consultants are trained
    to service customers across all prestige lines and within our
    prestige “boutiques” where customers can receive a
    makeover or skin analysis.









•Entertainment.The entertainment experience
    for our customer begins at home when she receives our catalogs
    or visits our website. They are designed to introduce our
    customers to our newest products and promotions and to be
    invitations to come to Ulta to play, touch, test, learn and
    explore. A significant percentage of our sales throughout the
    year is derived from new products, making every visit to Ulta an
    opportunity to discover something new and exciting. In addition
    to providing over 4,500 testers in categories such as fragrance,
    cosmetics, skincare, and salon styling tools, we further enhance
    the shopping experience and store atmosphere through live
    demonstrations from our licensed salon professionals and beauty
    consultants, and through customer makeovers and in-store videos.



•Esthetics.We strive to create a visually
    pleasing and inviting store and salon environment that
    exemplifies and reinforces the quality of our products and
    services. Our stores are brightly lit, spacious and attractive
    on the inside and outside of the store. Our store and salon
    design features sleek, modern lines that reinforce our status as
    a fashion authority, together with wide aisles that make the
    store easy to navigate and pleasant lighting to create a
    luxurious and welcoming environment. This strategy enables us to
    provide an extensive product selection in a well-organized store
    and to offer a salon experience that is both fashionable and
    contemporary.



•Empowerment.We are committed to creating an
    environment in which women feel empowered by both their inner
    and outer beauty; we take honor in providing our guests with
    opportunities to showcase how they have empowered themselves and
    others. Ulta is committed to positively impacting the lives of
    women through our work on empowerment initiatives such as the
    Ulta Enrich, Empower and Enlighten Scholarship Fund which grants
    deserving high school senior girls scholarships to the
    educational institution of their choice.



Category
    mix



We offer products in the following categories:



•Cosmetics, which includes products for the face, eyes, cheeks,
    lips and nails;•Haircare, which includes shampoos, conditioners, styling
    products, and hair accessories;•Salon styling tools, which includes hair dryers, curling irons
    and flat irons;•Skincare and bath and body, which includes products for the
    face, hands and body;•Fragrance for both men and women;•Private label, consisting of Ulta branded cosmetics, skincare,
    bath and body products and haircare; and•Other, including candles, home fragrance products and other
    miscellaneous health and beauty products.



Organization



Our merchandising team reports directly to our CEO and consists
    of a Senior Vice President of Merchandising who oversees; Senior
    Vice President of Prestige Cosmetics; Vice President of Mass
    Cosmetics, Skincare and Haircare; Vice President of Merchandise
    Operations; Vice President of Fragrance, Prestige Skin, Bath and
    Gift with Purchase; Divisional Merchandise Manager of Salon
    Products; Divisional Merchandise Manager of Styling Tools, and
    Director of Inventory. Reporting to the Senior Vice President of
    Merchandising are approximately 23 Divisional Merchandise
    Managers, Senior Buyers, Buyers and Assistant/Associate Buyers.
    Our merchandising team works directly with our centralized
    planning and replenishment group to ensure a consistent delivery
    of products across our store base.



Our planogram department assists the merchants and replenishment
    team to keep new products flowing into stores on a timely basis.
    All major product categories undergo planogram revisions once or
    twice a year and adjustments are made to assortment mix and
    product placement based on current sales trends.



Our visual department works with our merchandising team on every
    advertising event regarding strategic placement of promotional
    merchandise, along with functional signage and creative product
    presentation





standards, in all of our stores. All stores receive a centrally
    produced promotional planner for each event to ensure consistent
    implementation.



Planning
    and allocation



We have developed a disciplined approach to buying and a dynamic
    inventory planning and allocation process to support our
    merchandising strategy. We centrally manage product
    replenishment to our stores through our planning and
    replenishment group. This group serves as a strategic partner
    to, and provides financial oversight of, the merchandising team.
    The merchandising team creates a sales forecast by category for
    the year. Our planning and replenishment group creates anopen-to-buyplan, approved by senior executives, for each product category.
    Theopen-to-buyplan is updated weekly with POS data, receipts and inventory
    levels and is used throughout the year to balance buying
    opportunities and inventory return on investment. We believe
    this structure maximizes our buying opportunities while
    maintaining organizational and financial control. Regularly
    replenished products are presented consistently in all stores
    utilizing a merchandising planogram process. POS data is used to
    calculate sales forecasts and to determine replenishment levels.
    We determine promotional product replenishment levels using
    sales histories from similar or comparable events. To ensure our
    inventory remains productive, our planning and replenishment
    group, along with senior executives, monitors the levels of
    clearance and aged inventory in our stores on a weekly basis.



Vendor
    relationships



We work with over 300 vendors. Our Senior Vice President of
    Merchandising has over 30 years of experience and each
    merchandising vice president has over 15 years of
    experience developing relationships in the industry with which
    he or she works. We have no long-term supply agreements or
    exclusive arrangements with our vendors. Our top ten vendors
    represent approximately 48% of our total annual sales. These
    include vendors across all product categories, such as Bare
    Escentuals, Farouk Systems, L’Oréal,
    Procter & Gamble, and Coty, among others. We believe
    our vendors view us as a significant distribution channel for
    growth and brand enhancement.



Marketing
    and advertising



Marketing
    strategy



We employ a multi-faceted marketing strategy to increase brand
    awareness and drive traffic to both our stores and website. Our
    marketing strategy complements a basic tenet of our business
    strategy, which is to provide our customers with a satisfying
    and uplifting experience. We communicate this vision to our
    customers and prospective customers through a multi-media,
    multi-touchpoint approach. Our primary media expenditure is in
    direct mail catalogs and free-standing newspaper inserts. These
    vehicles allow the customer to see the breadth of our selection
    of prestige, mass and salon beauty products.



In order to reach new customers and to establish Ulta as a
    national brand, we advertise in national beauty and lifestyle
    magazines such as InStyle, Allure, Lucky, Elle and Vanity Fair.
    These advertising channels have historically been successful in
    raising our brand awareness on a national level and driving
    additional sales from both existing and new customers. In
    conjunction with our national brand advertising, we have
    initiated a public relations strategy that focuses on reaching
    top tier magazine editors to ensure consistent messaging in
    beauty magazines as well asdirect-to-customerefforts through multi-media channels.



Oure-commercemarketing strategy complements our print media strategy.
    Ulta.com serves not only as ane-commercesite, but additionally as an extension of Ulta’s marketing
    and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts
    and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to
    the Ulta brand and product offerings and providing a
    24 hour forum for loyalists to engage with the brand. This
    dual role for Ulta.com exists through online marketing
    strategies including search marketing, affiliate marketing,
    social networking, banner advertising, and other online
    marketing channels. Ulta.com’s email marketing programs are
    also effective in communicating with and driving sales from
    online and retail store customers.





Customer
    loyalty programs



We maintain two customer loyalty programs. Our national program
    provides reward point certificates for free beauty products.
    Customers earn purchase-based reward points and redeem the
    related reward certificate during specific promotional periods
    during the year. We are also rolling out a loyalty program in
    several markets in which customers earn purchase-based points on
    an annual basis which can be redeemed at any time. We have
    almost 8 million customer loyalty program members.



Staffing
    and operations



Retail



Our current Ulta store format is staffed with a general manager,
    a salon manager, three to four assistant managers, and
    approximately twenty full and part-time associates, including
    approximately six to eight prestige consultants and eight to ten
    licensed salon professionals. The management team in each store
    reports to the general manager. The general manager oversees all
    store activities including salon management, inventory
    management, merchandising, cash management, scheduling, hiring
    and guest services. Members of store management receive bonuses
    depending on their position and based upon store sales and
    shrink. Each general manager reports to a district manager, who
    in turn reports to a Regional Vice President of Operations who
    in turn reports to the Senior Vice President of Operations who
    in turn reports to our Chief Executive Officer. Each store team
    receives additional support from time to time from recruiting
    specialists for the retail and salon operations, a field loss
    prevention team, salon technical trainers, management trainers
    and vendors.



Ulta stores are open seven days a week, eleven hours a day,
    Monday through Saturday, and seven hours on Sunday. Our stores
    have extended hours during the holiday season.



Salon



A typical salon is staffed with eight to ten licensed salon
    professionals, including a salon manager, six stylists, and one
    to two estheticians. Our higher producing salons have a guest
    coordinator and an assistant manager. Our salon technical
    trainers and vendor education classes create a comprehensive
    educational program for approximately 3,000 Ulta salon
    professionals.



Training
    and development



Our success is dependent in part on our ability to attract,
    train, retain and motivate qualified employees at all levels of
    the organization. We have developed a corporate culture that
    enables individual store managers to make store-level operating
    decisions and consistently rewards their success. We are
    committed to improving the skills and careers of our workforce
    and providing advancement opportunities for our associates. Our
    associates and management teams are essential to our store
    expansion strategy. We primarily use existing managers or
    promote from within to support our new stores, although many
    outlying stores have all-new teams.



All of our associates participate in an interactive new-hire
    orientation through which each associate becomes acquainted with
    Ulta’s vision and mission. Training for new store managers,
    prestige consultants and sales associates familiarizes them with
    opening and closing routines, guest service expectations, our
    loss prevention policy and procedures, and our culture. We also
    have ongoing development programs that include operational
    training for hourly associates, prestige consultants, management
    and stylists. We provide continuing education to both salon
    professionals and retail associates throughout their careers at
    Ulta. In contrast to the sales teams at traditional department
    stores, our sales teams are not commissioned or brand-dedicated.
    Our prestige consultants are trained to work across all prestige
    lines and within our prestige “boutiques”, where
    customers can receive a makeover or skin analysis.



Distribution



We operate two distribution facilities. The first facility,
    located in Romeoville, Illinois, is approximately
    317,000 square feet in size, including an overflow
    facility. During fiscal 2008, we began operating a second





distribution facility in Phoenix, Arizona that is approximately
    330,000 square feet in size. We intend to open a third
    distribution center in fiscal 2012 to support our future growth
    needs.



Inventory is shipped from our suppliers to our distribution
    facilities. We carry over 21,000 products and replenish our
    stores with such products primarily in eaches (i.e.,less-than-casequantities), which allows us to ship less than an entire case
    when only one or two of a particular product is required. Our
    distribution facilities use warehouse management and warehouse
    control software systems, which have been upgraded or installed
    in the last two years. All products are bar-coded, which
    supports real-time inventory management and processing accuracy
    throughout the distribution center. Store replenishment order
    selection is performed using industry standardput-to-lightand various other wireless technologies. Product is delivered to
    stores using a broad network of contract carriers.



Information
    technology



We are committed to using technology to enhance our competitive
    position. We depend on a variety of information systems and
    technologies to maintain and improve our competitive position
    and to manage the operations of our growing store base. We rely
    on computer systems to provide information for all areas of our
    business, including supply chain, merchandising, POS,e-commerce,finance, accounting and human resources. Our core business
    systems consist mostly of a purchased software program that
    integrates with our internally developed software solutions. Our
    technology also includes a company-wide network that connects
    all corporate users, stores, and our distribution infrastructure
    and provides communications for credit card and daily polling of
    sales and merchandise movement at the store level. We intend to
    leverage our technology infrastructure and systems where
    appropriate to gain operational efficiencies through more
    effective use of our systems, people and processes. We update
    the technology supporting our stores, distribution
    infrastructure and corporate headquarters on a continual basis.
    We will continue to make investments in our information systems
    to facilitate our growth and enable us to enhance our
    competitive position.



Intellectual
    property



We have registered a number of trademarks in the United States,
    including Ulta Salon Cosmetics Fragrance (and design), Ulta.com,
    and Ulta Beauty and two related designs. The renewal dates for
    the identified marks are January 22, 2012 (Ulta Salon
    Cosmetics Fragrance (and design)), October 8, 2012
    (Ulta.com), July 10, 2017 (Ulta Beauty) and
    October 16, 2017 (the two Ulta Beauty related designs). All
    marks that are deemed material to our business have been
    registered in the United States and select foreign countries. We
    have applications pending for certain of these marks in Canada.



We believe our trademarks, especially those related to the Ulta
    brand, have significant value and are important to building
    brand recognition.



Government
    regulation



In our U.S. markets, we are affected by extensive laws,
    governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court
    decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and
    other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local
    levels in the United States. The cosmetic andover-the-counter(OTC) drug products we sell in our stores, including our Ulta
    branded products, are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and
    State Attorneys General (AG) in the United States. Such
    regulations principally relate to the safety of ingredients,
    proper labeling, advertising, packaging and marketing of the
    products.



Products classified as cosmetics (as defined in the Food, Drug
    and Cosmetic (FDC) Act) are not subject to pre-market approval
    by the FDA, but the products and the ingredients must be safe
    and must be properly labeled. Certain products, such as
    sunscreens and acne treatments, are classified as OTC drugs
    which have specific ingredient, labeling and manufacturing
    requirements. The labeling of cosmetic and OTC drug products is
    subject to the requirements of the FDC Act and the Fair
    Packaging and Labeling Act. Further, claims we make in
    advertising, including claims about the safety or efficacy of
    products, pricing claims and environmental claims, are subject
    to regulation by the FTC and State AG’s who generally
    prohibit deceptive practices.





The government regulations that most impact ourday-to-dayoperations are the labor and employment and taxation laws to
    which most retailers are typically subject. We are also subject
    to typical zoning and real estate land use restrictions and
    typical advertising and consumer protection laws (both federal
    and state). Our salon business is subject to state board
    regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists
    and our salon procedures.



In our store leases, we require our landlords to obtain all
    necessary zoning approvals and permits for the site to be used
    as a retail site and we also ask them to obtain any zoning
    approvals and permits for our specific use (but at times the
    responsibility for obtaining zoning approvals and permits for
    our specific use falls to us). We require our landlords to
    deliver a certificate of occupancy for any work they perform on
    our buildings or the shopping centers in which our stores are
    located. We are responsible for delivering a certificate of
    occupancy for any remodeling or build-outs that we perform and
    are responsible for complying with all applicable laws in
    connection with such construction projects or build-outs.



Associates



As of January 29, 2011, we employed approximately
    4,000 people on a full-time basis and approximately 7,700
    on a part-time basis. We have no collective bargaining
    agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and
    believe we have good relationships with our associates.



Available
    Information



Our principal website address is www.ulta.com. We make available
    at this address under investor relations (athttp://ir.ulta.com),free of charge, our proxy statement, annual report to
    shareholders, annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the SEC. Information available on our website is
    not incorporated by reference in and is not deemed a part of
    thisForm 10-K.In addition, our filings with the SEC may be accessed through
    the SEC’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval
    (EDGAR) system at www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any filed
    document at the SEC’s public reference rooms in
    Washington, D.C. at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330for further information about the public reference rooms. All
    statements made in any of our securities filings, including all
    forward-looking statements or information, are made as of the
    date of the document in which the statement is included, and we
    do not assume or undertake any obligation to update any of those
    statements or documents unless we are required to do so by law.

