Item 1.Business



COMPANY OVERVIEW



Kansas City Southern, a Delaware corporation, is a holding
    company with domestic and international rail operations in North
    America that are strategically focused on the growing
    north/south freight corridor connecting key commercial and
    industrial markets in the central United States with major
    industrial cities in Mexico. As used herein, “KCS” or
    the “Company” may refer to Kansas City Southern or, as
    the context requires, to one or more subsidiaries of Kansas City
    Southern. KCS and its subsidiaries had approximately
    6,100 employees on December 31, 2009. The Kansas City
    Southern Railway Company (“KCSR”), which was founded
    in 1887, is a U.S. Class I railroad. KCSR serves a
    ten-state region in the midwest and southeast regions of the
    United States and has the shortest north/south rail route
    between Kansas City, Missouri and several key ports along the
    Gulf of Mexico in Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.



KCS controls and owns all of the stock of Kansas City Southern
    de México, S.A. de C.V. (“KCSM”). KCS previously
    owned this stock through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Grupo
    KCSM, S.A. de C.V. (“Grupo KCSM”), formerly known as
    Grupo Transportación Ferroviaria Mexicana, S.A. de C.V., or
    Grupo TFM. Effective May 8, 2007, Grupo KCSM was merged
    into KCSM. Through its50-yearconcession from the Mexican government (the
    “Concession”), which could expire in 2047 unless
    extended, KCSM operates a key commercial corridor of the Mexican
    railroad system and has as its core route the most strategic
    portion of the shortest, most direct rail passageway between
    Mexico City and Laredo, Texas. KCSM serves most of Mexico’s
    principal industrial cities and three of its major seaports.
    KCSM’s rail lines provide exclusive rail access to the
    United States and Mexico border crossing at Nuevo Laredo,
    Tamaulipas, the largest rail freight interchange point between
    the United States and Mexico. Under the Concession, KCSM has the
    right to control and operate the southern half of the rail
    bridge at Laredo, Texas, which spans the Rio Grande River
    between the United States and Mexico.



KCSM provides exclusive rail access to the Port of Lazaro
    Cardenas on the Pacific Ocean. The Mexican government is
    developing the port at Lazaro Cardenas principally to serve
    Mexican markets and as an alternative to the congested
    U.S. west coast ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles. KCSM
    is the sole provider of rail service to this port, which
    provides an alternate route for Asian traffic bound for the
    eastern, southern and midwestern United States. Traffic at
    Lazaro Cardenas is both domestic and import traffic, consisting
    of intermodal containers, minerals, iron, steel slabs, wire
    rods, and fertilizers.



The Company wholly owns, directly and indirectly through its
    wholly-owned subsidiaries, Mexrail, Inc. (“Mexrail”)
    which, in turn, wholly owns The Texas Mexican Railway Company
    (“Tex-Mex”). Tex-Mex owns a157-milerail line extending from Laredo, Texas to the port city of
    Corpus Christi, Texas, which connects the operations of KCSR
    with KCSM. Through its ownership of Mexrail, the Company owns
    the northern half of the rail bridge at Laredo, Texas. Laredo is
    a principal international gateway through which more than half
    of all rail and truck traffic between the United States and
    Mexico crosses the border. The Company also controls the
    southern half of this bridge through its ownership of KCSM.



The KCS coordinated rail network (KCSR, KCSM and Tex-Mex)
    comprises approximately 6,000 miles of main and branch
    lines extending from the midwest and southeast portions of the
    United States south into Mexico and connects with other
    Class I railroads, providing shippers with an effective
    alternative to other railroad routes and giving direct access to
    Mexico and the southeast and southwest United States through
    less congested interchange hubs.



Panama Canal Railway Company (“PCRC”), an
    unconsolidated joint venture company owned equally by KCS andMi-JackProducts, Inc. (“Mi-Jack”), was awarded a concession
    from the Republic of Panama to reconstruct and operate the
    Panama Canal Railway, a47-milerailroad located adjacent to the Panama Canal that provides
    international container shipping companies with a railway
    transportation option in lieu of the Panama Canal. The
    concession was awarded in 1998 for an initial term of
    25 years with an automatic renewal for an additional
    25 year term. The Panama Canal Railway is a north-south
    railroad traversing the Isthmus of Panama between the Atlantic
    and Pacific Oceans. PCRC’s wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Panarail Tourism





Company (“Panarail”), operates and promotes commuter
    and tourist passenger service over the Panama Canal Railway.



Other subsidiaries and affiliates of KCS include the following:





•Meridian Speedway, LLC (“MSLLC”), a seventy-two
    percent owned consolidated affiliate that owns the former KCSR
    rail line between Meridian, Mississippi and Shreveport,
    Louisiana, which is the portion of the KCSR rail line between
    Dallas, Texas and Meridian known as the “Meridian
    Speedway.” Norfolk Southern Corporation (“NS”)
    through its wholly-owned subsidiary, The Alabama Great Southern
    Railroad Company, owns the remaining twenty-eight percent of
    MSLLC. Ultimately KCS will own seventy percent and NS will own
    thirty percent of MSLLC upon the contribution of additional
    capital by NS to MSLLC;



•Pabtex, Inc., a wholly-owned and consolidated owner of a bulk
    materials handling facility with deep-water access to the Gulf
    of Mexico at Port Arthur, Texas that stores and transfers
    petroleum coke from rail cars to ships, primarily for export;



•Trans-Serve, Inc. (doing business as Superior Tie and Timber), a
    wholly-owned and consolidated operator of a railroad wood tie
    treatment facility;



•Transfin Insurance, Ltd., a wholly-owned and consolidated
    captive insurance company, providing property, general liability
    and certain other insurance coverage to KCS and its subsidiaries
    and affiliates;



•Southern Capital Corporation, LLC (“Southern
    Capital”), a fifty percent owned unconsolidated affiliate
    that leases locomotives and other equipment; and



•Ferrocarril y Terminal del Valle de México, S.A. de C.V.
    (“FTVM”), a twenty-five percent owned unconsolidated
    affiliate that provides railroad services as well as ancillary
    services in the greater Mexico City area.

MARKETS SERVED2009 RevenuesBusiness MixChemical and petroleum.This sector includes
    products such as petroleum, rubber, plastics and miscellaneous
    chemicals. KCS transports these products to markets in the
    southeast and northeast United States and throughout Mexico
    through interchanges with other rail carriers. The products
    within the chemicals and plastics channels are used in the
    automotive, housing and packaging industries as well as in the
    production of other chemicalsand plastic products. KCS hauls petroleum products
    across its network and as petroleum refineries have continued to
    increase their refining capacity, they have coordinated with KCS
    to develop additional long-term storage opportunities which
    complement a fluid freight railroad operation.





Industrial and consumer products.KCS’
    rail lines run through the heart of the southeast United States
    timber-producing region. The Company believes that forest
    products made from trees in this region are generally less
    expensive than those from other regions due to lower production
    costs. As a result, southern yellow pine products from the
    southeast are increasingly being used at the expense of western
    producers that have experienced capacity reductions because of
    environmental and public policy considerations. KCS serves paper
    mills directly and indirectly through its various short-line
    connections.



This sector also includes metals and ores such as iron, steel,
    zinc and copper. The majority of metals, minerals and ores
    mined, and steel produced in Mexico are consumed within Mexico.
    The volume of Mexican steel exports fluctuates based on global
    market prices. Higher-end finished products such as steel coils
    are used by Mexican manufacturers in automobiles, household
    appliances and other consumer goods which are imported to the
    United States through Nuevo Laredo and through the seaports
    served by KCS’ rail network.





Agriculture and minerals.The agriculture and
    minerals sector consists primarily of grain and food products.
    Shipper demand for agriculture products is affected by
    competition among sources of grain and grain products, as well
    as price fluctuations in international markets for key
    commodities. In the United States, KCS’ rail lines
    receive and originate shipments of grain and grain products for
    delivery to feed mills serving the poultry industry. KCS
    currently serves feed mills along its rail lines throughout the
    midwest and southeast United States and through its marketing
    agreements, KCS has access to sources of corn and other grain in
    the Midwest. United States export grain shipments and Mexico
    import grain shipments include primarily corn, wheat, and
    soybeans transported to Mexico via Laredo and to the Gulf of
    Mexico for overseas destinations. Over the long term, export
    grain shipments to Mexico are expected to increase as a result
    of Mexico’s reliance on grain imports and KCS’
    coordinated rail network is well positioned to meet these
    increases in demand. Food products consists mainly of soybean
    meal, grain meal, oils, canned goods, and sugar. Other shipments
    consist of a variety of products including ores, minerals, clay
    and glass used across North America.



Intermodal.The intermodal freight business
    consists primarily of hauling freight containers or truck
    trailers on behalf of steamship lines, motor carriers, and
    intermodal marketing companies with rail carriers serving as
    long-distance haulers. KCS serves and supports the U.S. and
    Mexican markets, as well as cross border traffic between the
    U.S. and Mexico. In light of the importance of trade
    between Asia and North America, the Company believes the Port of
    Lazaro Cardenas continues to be a strategically beneficial
    location for ocean carriers, manufacturers and retailers. The
    Asia/Mexico commerce is handled through the Port of Lazaro
    Cardenas in conjunction with cross border movement on the single
    coordinated rail network into markets in the U.S. The Company
    also provides premium service to customers over its line from
    Dallas through the Meridian Speedway — a critical link
    in creating the most direct transcontinental line between the
    southwest and southeast U.S.



Automotive.KCS provides rail transportation
    to every facet of the automotive industry supply chain,
    including automotive manufacturers, assembly plants and
    distribution centers throughout North America. Several
    U.S. automakers have moved assembly plants into central
    Mexico to take advantage of access to lower costs, which has
    driven a shift in production and distribution patterns from the
    U.S. to Mexico. In addition, KCS transports finished
    vehicles imported from Asia through a distribution facility at
    the Port of Lazaro Cardenas. As the automotive industry shifts
    production and distribution patterns, KCS is poised to serve as
    a key partner with the automakers, with the technology and rail
    network to quickly adapt to the automotive industry’s
    evolving transportation requirements.



Coal.KCS hauls unit trains (trains
    transporting a single commodity from one source to one
    destination) of coal for eight electric generating plants in the
    central United States. The coal originates from the Powder River
    Basin in Wyoming and is interchanged to KCS at Kansas City,
    Missouri. Coal mined in the midwest United States is
    transported innon-unittrains to industrial consumers such as paper mills, steel mills,
    and cement companies. Petroleum coke is also included in the
    coal sector, which KCS transports from refineries in the United
    States to cement companies in Mexico as well as to vessels for
    international distribution through the Pabtex export terminal
    located in Port Arthur, Texas.



GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION



train-to-train





line track where toxic inhalation hazard or poison inhalation
    hazard movements occur or where passenger operations occur) by
    the end of 2015, addresses safety at rail crossings, increases
    the number of safety related employees of the Federal Railroad
    Administration, and increases fines that may be levied against
    railroads for safety violations. State agencies regulate some
    aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety in
    areas not otherwise regulated by federal law.



KCS’ subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state
    and local environmental regulations. These laws cover discharges
    to water, air emissions, toxic substances, and the generation,
    handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and
    hazardous materials. These regulations have the effect of
    increasing the costs, risks and liabilities associated with rail
    operations. Environmental risks are also inherent in rail
    operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals and
    other hazardous materials.



Primary regulatory jurisdiction for the Company’s Mexican
    operations is overseen by the Secretary of Communications and
    Transportation (“SCT”). The SCT establishes
    regulations concerning railway safety and operations, and is
    responsible for resolving disputes between railways and between
    railways and customers. In addition, KCSM must register its
    maximum rates with the SCT and make regular reports to the SCT
    on investment and traffic volumes. See Note 1 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of thisForm 10-K“Description of the Business —The KCSM
    Concession.”



The Mexican operations are subject to Mexican federal and state
    laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
    environment through the establishment of standards for water
    discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution, hazardous
    substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and
    solid waste. The Mexican government may bring administrative and
    criminal proceedings and impose economic sanctions against
    companies that violate environmental laws, and temporarily or
    even permanently close non-complying facilities.



Noncompliance with applicable legal provisions may result in the
    imposition of fines, temporary or permanent shutdown of
    operations or other injunctive relief, criminal prosecution or
    the termination of the Concession. KCS believes that facilities
    which it operates are in substantial compliance with applicable
    environmental laws, regulations and agency agreements. KCS
    maintains environmental reserves which are believed by
    management to be appropriate with respect to known and existing
    environmental contamination of its properties which KCS may be
    responsible to remedy. In addition, KCS’s subsidiaries are
    party to contracts and other legally binding obligations by
    which previous owners of certain facilities now owned by KCS are
    responsible to remedy contamination of such sites remaining from
    their previous ownership. There are currently no material legal
    or administrative proceedings pending against the Company with
    respect to any environmental matters and management does not
    believe that continued compliance with environmental laws will
    have any material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
    condition. KCS cannot predict the effect, if any, that
    unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional
    or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have
    on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or
    financial condition.



COMPETITION



The Company competes against other railroads, many of which are
    much larger and have significantly greater financial and other
    resources. The railroad industry is dominated by a few very
    large carriers. The larger western railroads (BNSF Railway
    Company and Union Pacific Railroad Company), in particular, are
    significant competitors of KCS because of their substantial
    resources and competitive routes. The ongoing impact of past and
    future rail consolidation is uncertain. However, KCS believes
    that its investments and strategic alliances continue to
    competitively position the Company to attract additional rail
    traffic throughout its rail network.



In November 2005, Ferrocarril Mexicano, S.A. de C.V.
    (“Ferromex”) acquired control of and merged with
    Ferrosur S.A. de C.V. (“Ferrosur”), creating
    Mexico’s largest railway. These merged operations are much
    larger than KCSM, and they serve most of the major ports and
    cities in Mexico and together own fifty percent of FTVM, which
    serves industries located within Mexico City. The merger between
    Ferromex and Ferrosur has been rejected by theComisión
    Federal de Competencia(Mexican Antitrust Commission, or
    “COFECO”). Both Ferromex and Ferrosur challenged
    COFECO’s decision.





The Company is subject to competition from motor carriers, barge
    lines and other maritime shipping, which compete across certain
    routes in KCS’ operating areas. In the past, truck carriers
    have generally eroded the railroad industry’s share of
    total transportation revenues. Intermodal traffic and certain
    other traffic face highly price sensitive competition,
    particularly from motor carriers. However, rail carriers,
    including KCS, have placed an emphasis on competing in the
    intermodal marketplace and working with motor carriers to
    provideend-to-endtransportation of products.



While deregulation of U.S. freight rates has enhanced the
    ability of railroads to compete with each other and with
    alternative modes of transportation, this increased competition
    has generally resulted in downward pressure on freight rates.
    Competition with other railroads and other modes of
    transportation is generally based on the rates charged, the
    quality and reliability of the service provided and the quality
    of the carrier’s equipment for certain commodities.



EMPLOYEES
    AND LABOR RELATIONS



Labor relations in the U.S. railroad industry are subject
    to extensive governmental regulation under the Railway Labor Act
    (“RLA”). Under the RLA, national labor agreements are
    renegotiated on an industry-wide scale when they become open for
    modification, but their terms remain in effect until new
    agreements are reached or the RLA’s procedures (which
    include mediation, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of
    presidential intervention) are exhausted. Contract negotiations
    with the various unions generally take place over an extended
    period of time and the Company rarely experiences work stoppages
    during negotiations. Wages, health and welfare benefits, work
    rules and other issues have traditionally been addressed during
    these negotiations.



Approximately 80% of KCSR employees are covered by various
    collective bargaining agreements. KCSR participates in
    industry-wide bargaining as a member of the National
    Carriers’ Conference Committee. A negotiating process for
    new, major collective bargaining agreements covering all of
    KCSR’s union employees has been underway since the
    bargaining round was initiated in November of 2009. Long term
    settlement agreements were reached during 2007 and 2008 covering
    all of KCSR’s unionized work force through January 1,
    2010. The union labor negotiation has not historically resulted
    in any strike, boycott, or other disruption in the
    Company’s business operations. The Company does not believe
    the expected settlements will have a material impact to the
    consolidated financial statements.



KCSM union employees are covered by one labor agreement, which
    was signed on June 23, 1997, between KCSM and theSindicato de Trabajadores Ferrocarrileros de la
    República Mexicana(Mexican Railroad Union), for a term
    of 50 years, for the purpose of regulating the relationship
    between the parties and improving conditions for the union
    employees. Approximately 80% of KCSM employees are covered by
    this labor agreement. The compensation terms under this labor
    agreement are subject to renegotiation on an annual basis and
    all other terms are subject to negotiation every two years. In
    June of 2009, the negotiation of the compensation terms and all
    other benefits was started with the Mexican Railroad Union. The
    union labor negotiation with the Mexican Railroad Union has not
    historically resulted in any strike, boycott, or other
    disruption in KCSM’s business operations. KCSM does not
    believe the expected settlements will have a material impact to
    the consolidated financial statements.



RAIL
    SECURITY



The Company and its rail subsidiaries have made a concentrated,
    multi-disciplinary effort since the terrorist attacks on the
    United States on September 11, 2001, to continue securing
    the Company’s assets and personnel against the risk of
    terrorism and other security risks. Many of the specific
    measures the Company utilizes for these efforts are required to
    be kept confidential through arrangements with government
    agencies, such as the Department of Homeland Security
    (“DHS”), or through jointly-developed and implemented
    strategies and plans with connecting carriers. To protect the
    confidentiality and sensitivity of the efforts the Company has
    made to safeguard against terrorism and other security
    incidents, the following paragraphs will provide only a general
    overview of some of these efforts. KCSR and KCSM utilize a
    security plan based on an industry wide security plan developed
    by Association of American Railroads (“AAR”) members
    which focuses on comprehensive risk assessments in five
    areas — hazardous materials; train operations;
    critical physical assets; military traffic; and information
    technology and communications. The security plan is kept





confidential, with access to the plan tightly limited to members
    of management with direct security and anti-terrorism
    implementation responsibilities. KCSR and KCSM participate with
    other AAR members in periodic drills under the industry plan to
    test and refine its various provisions.



The Company’s security activities range from periodically
    mailing each employee a security awareness brochure (which is
    also posted under the “Employees” tab on the
    Company’s internet website, www.kcsouthern.com) to its
    ongoing development and implementation of security plans for
    rail facilities in areas labeled by the DHS as High Threat Urban
    Areas (“HTUAs”). The Company’s other activities
    to bolster security against terrorism include, but are not
    limited to, the following:



•Conferring regularly with other railroads’ security
    personnel and with industry experts on security issues;•Analyzing routing alternatives and other strategies to reduce
    the distances that certain chemicals, which might be toxic if
    inhaled, are transported;•Initiating a series of over 20 voluntary action items agreed to
    between AAR and DHS as enhancing security in the rail
    industry; and•Including periodic security training as part of the scheduled
    training for operating employees and managers.



In addition, in 2008 the Company created a new leadership role
    titled “Director of Homeland Security” to oversee the
    ongoing and increasingly complex security efforts of the Company
    in both the United States and Mexico. The Company identified and
    retained an individual to fill the position who has an extensive
    law enforcement background, including being formerly employed as
    an analyst with the Federal Bureau of Investigation
    (“FBI”) for 12 years. This member of management
    remains a member of the FBI’s Joint Terrorism Task Force
    and is a valuable asset to the Company in implementing and
    developing anti-terrorism and other security initiatives.



During 2008, KCSR worked toward implementation of DHS’s
    Transport Worker Identification Card program for those employees
    requiring unescorted access to secure areas of port facilities,
    and during 2009, began implementing a contractor background
    check program for contractor employees having access to certain
    Company facilities.



While the risk of theft and vandalism is higher in Mexico, KCSM
    remains among the safest transportation for freight shipments in
    Mexico. KCSM’s record in rail safety is due in large part
    to the implementation of a multi-layered, safety and security
    process throughout the KCSM network. In addition to having its
    own internal system of checks and balances, the process is
    connected to, and supported by a high level of federal, state
    and local law enforcement. A primary focus of this effort
    involves maintaining train velocity, which reduces the
    likelihood for incidents to occur. By moving customers’
    shipments more efficiently, KCSM is keeping the cargo secure.



AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION



KCS’ website (www.kcsouthern.com) provides at no cost
    KCS’ Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,and Current Reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after the electronic filing of these reports is made
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition,
    KCS’ corporate governance guidelines, ethics and legal
    compliance policy, and the charters of the Audit Committee, the
    Finance Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance
    Committee and the Compensation and Organization Committee of the
    Board of Directors are available on KCS’ website. These
    guidelines, policies and charters are available in print without
    charge to any stockholder requesting them. Written requests for
    these materials may be made to the Corporate Secretary,
    P.O. Box 219335, Kansas City, Missouri64121-9335(or if by express delivery to 427 West 12th Street,
    Kansas City, Missouri 64105).





See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data — Note 1 “Description of the
    Business” and Note 17 “Geographic
    Information” for more information on the description and
    general development of the Company’s business and financial
    information about geographic areas.



