Item 1. Business

COMPANY OVERVIEW

Kansas City Southern, a Delaware corporation, is a holding company with domestic and international rail
operations in North America that are strategically focused on the growing north/south freight corridor connecting key commercial and industrial markets in the central United States with major industrial cities in Mexico. As used herein,
“KCS” or the “Company” may refer to Kansas City Southern or, as the context requires, to one or more subsidiaries of Kansas City Southern. KCS and its subsidiaries had approximately 6,100 employees on December 31, 2010.

The Kansas City Southern Railway Company (“KCSR”), which was founded in 1887, is a U.S. Class I railroad.
KCSR serves a ten-state region in the midwest and southeast regions of the United States and has the shortest north/south rail route between Kansas City, Missouri and several key ports along the Gulf of Mexico in Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, and
Texas.

KCS controls and owns all of the stock of Kansas City Southern de México, S.A. de C.V. (“KCSM”).
Through its 50-year concession from the Mexican government (the “Concession”), which could expire in 2047 unless extended, KCSM operates a key commercial corridor of the Mexican railroad system and has as its core route the most strategic
portion of the shortest, most direct rail passageway between Mexico City and Laredo, Texas. KCSM serves most of Mexico’s principal industrial cities and three of its major seaports. KCSM’s rail lines provide exclusive rail access to the
United States and Mexico border crossing at Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, the largest rail freight interchange point between the United States and Mexico. Under the Concession, KCSM has the right to control and operate the southern half of the rail
bridge at Laredo, Texas, which spans the Rio Grande River between the United States and Mexico.

KCSM provides exclusive rail
access to the Port of Lazaro Cardenas on the Pacific Ocean. The Mexican government is developing the port at Lazaro Cardenas principally to serve Mexican markets and as an alternative to the congested U.S. west coast ports of Long Beach and Los
Angeles. KCSM is the sole provider of rail service to this port, which provides an alternate route for Asian and South American traffic bound for the eastern, southern and midwestern United States. Traffic at Lazaro Cardenas consists of intermodal
containers, motor vehicles, minerals, iron, steel slabs, wire rods, and fertilizers.

The Company wholly owns Mexrail, Inc.
(“Mexrail”) which, in turn, wholly owns The Texas Mexican Railway Company (“Tex-Mex”). Tex-Mex owns a 157-mile rail line extending from Laredo, Texas to the port city of Corpus Christi, Texas, which connects the operations of
KCSR with KCSM. Through its ownership of Mexrail, the Company owns the northern half of the rail bridge at Laredo, Texas. Laredo is a principal international gateway through which more than half of all rail and truck traffic between the United
States and Mexico crosses the border. The Company also controls the southern half of this bridge through its ownership of KCSM.

The KCS coordinated rail network (KCSR, KCSM and Tex-Mex) comprises approximately 6,200 route miles extending from the midwest and
southeast portions of the United States south into Mexico and connects with all other Class I railroads, providing shippers with an effective alternative to other railroad routes and giving direct access to Mexico and the southeast and
southwest United States through less congested interchange hubs.

Panama Canal Railway Company (“PCRC”), an
unconsolidated joint venture company owned equally by KCS and Mi-Jack Products, Inc. (“Mi-Jack”), was awarded a concession from the Republic of Panama to reconstruct and operate the Panama Canal Railway, a 47-mile railroad located adjacent
to the Panama Canal that provides international container shipping companies with a railway transportation option in lieu of the Panama Canal. The concession was awarded in 1998 for an initial term of 25 years with an automatic renewal for an
additional 25 year term. The Panama Canal Railway is a north-south railroad traversing the Isthmus of Panama between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. PCRC’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Panarail Tourism Company (“Panarail”), operates
and promotes commuter and tourist passenger service over the Panama Canal Railway.






Other subsidiaries and affiliates of KCS include the following:



•Meridian Speedway, LLC (“MSLLC”), a seventy-two percent owned consolidated affiliate that owns the former KCSR rail line between Meridian,
Mississippi and Shreveport, Louisiana, which is the portion of the KCSR rail line between Dallas, Texas and Meridian known as the “Meridian Speedway.” Norfolk Southern Corporation (“NS”) through its wholly-owned subsidiary, The
Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company, owns the remaining twenty-eight percent of MSLLC. Ultimately KCS will own seventy percent and NS will own thirty percent of MSLLC upon the contribution of additional capital by NS to MSLLC;



•Pabtex, Inc., a wholly-owned and consolidated owner of a bulk materials handling facility with deep-water access to the Gulf of Mexico at Port Arthur,
Texas that stores and transfers petroleum coke from rail cars to ships, primarily for export;



•Trans-Serve, Inc. (doing business as Superior Tie and Timber), a wholly-owned and consolidated operator of a railroad wood tie treatment facility;



•Transfin Insurance, Ltd., a wholly-owned and consolidated captive insurance company, providing property, general liability and certain other insurance
coverage to KCS and its subsidiaries and affiliates;



•Southern Capital Corporation, LLC (“Southern Capital”), a fifty percent owned unconsolidated affiliate that leases locomotives and other
equipment; and



•Ferrocarril y Terminal del Valle de México, S.A. de C.V. (“FTVM”), a twenty-five percent owned unconsolidated affiliate that provides
railroad services as well as ancillary services in the greater Mexico City area.

MARKETS SERVED



Chemical and petroleum.This sector includes products such as petroleum, rubber, plastics and miscellaneous chemicals. KCS transports
these products to markets in the southeast and northeast United States and throughout Mexico through interchanges with other rail carriers. The products within the chemicals and plastics channels are used in the automotive, housing and packaging
industries as well as in the production of other chemicals and plastic products. KCS hauls petroleum products across its network and as petroleum refineries have continued to increase their refining capacity, they have coordinated with KCS to
develop additional long-term storage opportunities which complement a fluid freight railroad operation.

Industrial and consumer products.KCS’s rail lines run through the heart
of the southeast United States timber-producing region. The Company believes that forest products made from trees in this region are generally less expensive than those from other regions due to lower production costs. As a result, southern yellow
pine products from the southeast are increasingly being used at the expense of western producers that have experienced capacity reductions because of environmental and public policy considerations. KCS serves paper mills directly and indirectly
through its various short-line connections.

This sector also includes metals and ores such as iron, steel, zinc and copper.
The majority of metals, minerals and ores mined, and steel produced in Mexico are consumed within Mexico. The volume of Mexican steel exports fluctuates based on global market prices. Higher-end finished products such as steel coils are used






by Mexican manufacturers in automobiles, household appliances and other consumer goods which are imported to the United States through Nuevo Laredo and through the seaports served by KCS’s
rail network. KCS also transports steel coils from U.S. based mini-mills in Mississippi and Alabama to Texas and Mexico for appliance and automotive applications.

Agriculture and minerals.The agriculture and minerals sector consists primarily of grain and food products. Shipper demand for agriculture products is affected by competition among sources of
grain and grain products, as well as price fluctuations in international markets for key commodities. In the United States, KCS’s rail lines receive and originate shipments of grain and grain products for delivery to feed mills serving the
poultry industry. KCS currently serves feed mills along its rail lines throughout the midwest and southeast United States and through its marketing agreements, KCS has access to sources of corn and other grain in the Midwest. United States export
grain shipments and Mexico import grain shipments include primarily corn, wheat, and soybeans transported to Mexico via Laredo and to the Gulf of Mexico. Over the long term, export grain shipments to Mexico are expected to increase as a result of
Mexico’s reliance on grain imports and KCS’s coordinated rail network is well positioned to meet these increases in demand. Food products consist mainly of soybean meal, grain meal, oils, canned goods, and sugar. Other shipments consist of
a variety of products including ores, minerals, clay and glass used across North America.

Coal.KCS hauls unit
trains (trains transporting a single commodity from one source to one destination) of coal for eight electric generating plants in the central United States. The coal originates from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and is interchanged to KCS at
Kansas City, Missouri. Coal mined in the midwest United States is transported in non-unit trains to industrial consumers such as paper mills, steel mills, and cement companies. Petroleum coke is also included in the coal sector, which KCS
transports from refineries in the United States to cement companies in Mexico as well as to vessels for international distribution through the Pabtex export terminal located in Port Arthur, Texas.

Intermodal.The intermodal freight business consists primarily of hauling freight containers or truck trailers on behalf of
steamship lines, motor carriers, and intermodal marketing companies with rail carriers serving as long-distance haulers. KCS serves and supports the U.S. and Mexican markets, as well as cross border traffic between the U.S. and Mexico. In
light of the importance of trade between Asia and North America, the Company believes the Port of Lazaro Cardenas continues to be a strategically beneficial location for ocean carriers, manufacturers and retailers. The Asia/Mexico commerce is
handled through the Port of Lazaro Cardenas in conjunction with cross border movement on the single coordinated rail network into markets in the U.S. The Company also provides premium service to customers over its line from Dallas through the
Meridian Speedway — a critical link in creating the most direct route between the southwest and southeast/northeast U.S.

Automotive.KCS provides rail transportation to every facet of the automotive industry supply chain, including automotive manufacturers, assembly plants and distribution centers throughout
North America. Several U.S. automakers have moved assembly plants into central Mexico to take advantage of access to lower costs, which has driven a shift in production and distribution patterns from the U.S. to Mexico. In addition, KCS
transports finished vehicles imported and exported to and from Asia through a distribution facility at the Port of Lazaro Cardenas. As the automotive industry shifts production and distribution patterns, KCS is poised to serve the automotive
industry’s evolving transportation requirements.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

The Company’s United States operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations generally applicable to all
businesses. Rail operations are also subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”) of the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies. The STB has jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving certain rates, routes and services, the sale or abandonment of
rail lines, applications for line extensions and construction,






and consolidation or merger with, or acquisition of control of, rail common carriers. DOT and OSHA each has jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a number of safety and health aspects
of rail operations, including the transportation of hazardous materials. In 2008, the President of the United States signed the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 into law, which, among other things, revises hours of service for train and certain
other employees and mandates implementation of positive train control at certain locations by the end of 2015. Positive train control is a technology designed to help prevent train-to-train collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into
rail work zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned at certain locations, including main line track where toxic inhalation hazard or poison inhalation hazard movements occur or where passenger operations occur. In
addition, the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 addresses safety at rail crossings, increases the number of safety related employees of the Federal Railroad Administration, and increases fines that may be levied against railroads for safety
violations. State agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety in areas not otherwise regulated by federal law.

KCS’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulations. These laws cover discharges to water, air emissions, toxic substances, and the generation, handling,
storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials. These regulations have the effect of increasing the costs, risks and liabilities associated with rail operations. Environmental risks are also inherent in rail operations, which
frequently involve transporting chemicals and other hazardous materials.

Primary regulatory jurisdiction for the
Company’s Mexican operations is overseen by the Mexican Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes (“Secretary of Communications and Transportation” or “SCT”). The SCT establishes regulations concerning railway safety
and operations, and is responsible for resolving disputes between railways and between railways and customers. In addition, KCSM must register its maximum rates with the SCT and make regular reports to the SCT on investment and traffic volumes. See
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K “Description of the Business —The KCSM Concession.”

The Mexican operations are subject to Mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment through the establishment of standards for water discharge, water supply,
emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling of hazardous and solid waste. The Mexican government may bring administrative and criminal proceedings and impose economic sanctions against companies that violate
environmental laws, and temporarily or even permanently close non-complying facilities.

Noncompliance with applicable legal
provisions may result in the imposition of fines, temporary or permanent shutdown of operations or other injunctive relief, criminal prosecution or the termination of the Concession. KCS believes that facilities which it operates are in compliance
with applicable environmental laws, regulations and agency agreements. KCS maintains environmental reserves which are believed by management to be appropriate with respect to known and existing environmental contamination of its properties which KCS
may be responsible to remedy. In addition, KCS’s subsidiaries are party to contracts and other legally binding obligations by which previous owners of certain facilities now owned by KCS are responsible to remedy contamination of such sites
remaining from their previous ownership. There are currently no material legal or administrative proceedings pending against the Company with respect to any environmental matters and management does not believe that continued compliance with
environmental laws will have any material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. KCS cannot predict the effect, if any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and
regulations would have on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.

COMPETITION

The Company competes against other railroads, many of which are much larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources.
The railroad industry is dominated by a few very large carriers. The larger






western railroads (BNSF Railway Company and Union Pacific Railroad Company), in particular, are significant competitors of KCS because of their substantial resources and competitive routes. The
ongoing impact of past and future rail consolidation is uncertain. However, KCS believes that its investments and strategic alliances continue to competitively position the Company to attract additional rail traffic throughout its rail network.

In November 2005, Ferrocarril Mexicano, S.A. de C.V. (“Ferromex”) acquired control of and merged with Ferrosur S.A.
de C.V. (“Ferrosur”), creating Mexico’s largest railway. These merged operations are much larger than KCSM, and they serve most of the major ports and cities in Mexico and together own fifty percent of FTVM, which serves industries
located within Mexico City. The merger between Ferromex and Ferrosur has been rejected by the Comisión Federal de Competencia (Mexican Antitrust Commission, or “COFECO”). Both Ferromex and Ferrosur challenged COFECO’s decision.
On May 12, 2010, the Administrative and Fiscal Federal Court annulled the decision of COFECO and approved the merger between Ferromex and Ferrosur. On October 21, 2010, COFECO filed an appeal with the Collegiate Circuit Federal Court and
as of the date of this filing, a ruling on this matter has not been issued.

The Company is subject to competition from motor
carriers, barge lines and other maritime shipping, which compete across certain routes in KCS’s operating areas. In the past, truck carriers have generally eroded the railroad industry’s share of total transportation revenues. Intermodal
traffic and certain other traffic face highly price sensitive competition, particularly from motor carriers. However, rail carriers, including KCS, have placed an emphasis on competing in the intermodal marketplace and working with motor carriers to
provide end-to-end transportation of products.

While deregulation of U.S. freight rates has enhanced the ability of
railroads to compete with each other and with alternative modes of transportation, this increased competition has generally resulted in downward pressure on freight rates since deregulation. Competition with other railroads and other modes of
transportation is generally based on the rates charged, the quality and reliability of the service provided and the quality of the carrier’s equipment for certain commodities.

RAIL SECURITY

The Company and its rail subsidiaries have made a
concentrated, multi-disciplinary effort since the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, to continue securing the Company’s assets and personnel against the risk of terrorism and other security risks. Many of the
specific measures the Company utilizes for these efforts are required to be kept confidential through arrangements with government agencies, such as the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”), or through jointly-developed and implemented
strategies and plans with connecting carriers. To protect the confidentiality and sensitivity of the efforts the Company has made to safeguard against terrorism and other security incidents, the following paragraphs will provide only a general
overview of some of these efforts. KCSR and KCSM utilize a security plan based on an industry wide security plan developed by Association of American Railroads (“AAR”) members which focuses on comprehensive risk assessments in five
areas — hazardous materials; train operations; critical physical assets; military traffic; and information technology and communications. The security plan is kept confidential, with access to the plan tightly limited to members of
management with direct security and anti-terrorism implementation responsibilities. KCSR and KCSM participate with other AAR members in periodic drills under the industry plan to test and refine its various provisions.

The Company’s security activities range from periodically mailing each employee a security awareness brochure (which is also posted
under the “Employees” tab on the Company’s internet website, www.kcsouthern.com) to its ongoing development and implementation of security plans for rail facilities in areas labeled by the DHS as High Threat Urban Areas
(“HTUAs”). The Company’s other activities to bolster security against terrorism include, but are not limited to, the following:



•Conferring regularly with other railroads’ security personnel and with industry experts on security issues;






•Analyzing routing alternatives and other strategies to reduce the distances that certain chemicals, which might be toxic if inhaled, are transported;



•Initiating a series of over 20 voluntary action items agreed to between AAR and DHS as enhancing security in the rail industry; and



•Conducting periodic security training as part of the scheduled training for operating employees and managers.

In addition, in 2008 the Company created a new leadership role titled “Director of Homeland Security” to oversee the ongoing
and increasingly complex security efforts of the Company in both the United States and Mexico. The Company identified and retained an individual to fill the position who has an extensive law enforcement background, including being formerly employed
as an analyst with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) for 12 years. This member of management remains a member of the FBI’s Joint Terrorism Task Force and is a valuable asset to the Company in developing and implementing
anti-terrorism and other security initiatives.

While the risk of theft and vandalism is higher in Mexico, KCSM remains among
the safest method of transportation for freight shipments in Mexico. KCSM’s record in rail safety is due in large part to the implementation of a multi-layered, safety and security process throughout the KCSM network. In addition to having its
own internal system of checks and balances, the process is connected to, and supported by a high level of federal, state and local law enforcement. A primary focus of this effort involves maintaining train velocity, which reduces the likelihood for
incidents to occur. By moving customers’ shipments more efficiently, KCSM is keeping the cargo secure.

RAILWAY LABOR ACT

Labor relations in the U.S. railroad industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation under the Railway
Labor Act (“RLA”). Under the RLA, national labor agreements are renegotiated on an industry-wide scale when they become open for modification, but their terms remain in effect until new agreements are reached or the RLA’s procedures
(which include mediation, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of presidential intervention) are exhausted. Contract negotiations with the various unions generally take place over an extended period of time and the Company rarely experiences
work stoppages during negotiations. Wages, health and welfare benefits, work rules and other issues have traditionally been addressed during these negotiations.

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING

Approximately 80% of KCSR employees are covered by
collective bargaining agreements. KCSR participates in industry-wide bargaining as a member of the National Carriers’ Conference Committee. Long-term settlement agreements were reached during 2007 and 2008 covering all of KCSR’s unionized
work force through June 30, 2010. A negotiating process for new, major collective bargaining agreements covering substantially all of KCSR’s union employees has been underway since the bargaining round was initiated in November of 2009. The
agreements reached in 2007 and 2008 continue in effect until new agreements are reached. Contract negotiations with the various unions generally take place over an extended period of time and have not historically resulted in any strike, boycott, or
other disruption in the Company’s business operations. The Company does not believe the expected settlements will have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

KCSM union employees are covered by one labor agreement, which was signed on June 23, 1997, between KCSM and theSindicato de
Trabajadores Ferrocarrileros de la República Mexicana(Mexican Railroad Union), for a term of 50 years, for the purpose of regulating the relationship between the parties and improving conditions for the union employees.
Approximately 80% of KCSM employees are covered by this labor agreement. The compensation terms under this labor agreement are subject to renegotiation on an annual basis






and all other terms are subject to negotiation every two years. Compensation terms and all other benefits, excluding the retirement benefit, covering the period from July 1, 2009 through
June 30, 2010, were finalized between KCSM and the union during the second quarter of 2010. Compensation terms covering the period from July 1, 2010, through June 30, 2011, and the retirement benefit were finalized in the third
quarter of 2010. The union labor negotiation with the Mexican Railroad Union has not historically resulted in any strike, boycott, or other disruption in KCSM’s business operations.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF KCS AND SUBSIDIARIES

All executive officers are
elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. All of the executive officers have employment agreements with KCS and/or its subsidiaries. The mailing address of the principal executive officers other than Mr. Zozaya is
427 W. 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64105. Mr. Zozaya’s mailing address is Montes Urales No. 625, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, C.P. 11000, Mexico D.F.

Michael R. Haverty— Executive Chairman of the Board — 66 — The information in the
Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement under the heading “The Board of Directors — Directors Serving Until the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2012” with respect to Mr. Haverty is incorporated by reference.

David L. Starling— KCS President and Chief Executive Officer — 61 — The information
in the Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement under the heading “The Board of Directors — Directors Serving Until the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2013” with respect to Mr. Starling is incorporated by reference.

Warren K. Erdman— Executive Vice President — Administration and Corporate Affairs —
52 — Served in this capacity since April 2010. Mr. Erdman served as Executive Vice President — Corporate Affairs from October 2007 until April 2010. He served as Senior Vice President — Corporate Affairs of KCS and KCSR from
January 2006 to September 2007. Mr. Erdman served as Vice President — Corporate Affairs of KCS from April 15, 1997 to December 31, 2005 and as Vice President — Corporate Affairs of KCSR from May 1997 to
December 31, 2005. Prior to joining KCS, Mr. Erdman served as Chief of Staff to United States Senator Kit Bond of Missouri from 1987 to 1997.

Patrick J. Ottensmeyer— Executive Vice President Sales and Marketing — 53 — Served in this capacity since October 16, 2008. Mr. Ottensmeyer joined KCS in
May 2006 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining KCS, Mr. Ottensmeyer served as Chief Financial Officer of Intranasal Therapeutics, Inc. from 2001 to May 2006. From 2000 to 2001, he served as Corporate Vice
President Finance and Treasurer for Dade-Behring Holdings, Inc. From 1993 to 1999, Mr. Ottensmeyer served as Vice President Finance and Treasurer at Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation and BNSF Railway and their predecessor companies.

Michael W. Upchurch— Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer — 50 — Served
in this capacity since October 16, 2008. Mr. Upchurch joined KCS in March 2008 as Senior Vice President Purchasing and Financial Management. Prior to joining KCS, Mr. Upchurch served as Senior Vice President Finance of Red Development
LLC, from December 2007 through February 2008. From September 2006 through December 2007, Mr. Upchurch worked as an independent consultant providing financial consulting services. From 1990 through September 2006, Mr. Upchurch served in
various senior financial leadership positions at Sprint Nextel Corporation and its predecessor, Sprint Corporation, including Senior Vice President Financial Operations, Senior Vice President Finance Sprint Business Solutions and Senior Vice
President Finance Long Distance Division.

José Guillermo Zozaya Delano —President and Executive
Representative — KCSM — 58 — Has served in this position since April 20, 2006. Mr. Zozaya has 35 years of experience in law and government relations, most recently as the legal and government relations
director for ExxonMobil México, S.A. de C.V., where he spent nine years prior to joining KCSM.






John E. Derry— Senior Vice President Human Resources —
43 — Served in this capacity since July 2008. He served as Vice President of Human Resources from February 2008 until July 2008. Mr. Derry joined KCS from YRC Worldwide, Inc. where he served in various Human Resource functions from
January 2004 to February 2008. From September 2006 to February 2008, Mr. Derry served as Vice President of Human Resources for Yellow Transportation. Prior to joining YRC Worldwide, Inc. Mr. Derry spent 17 years with General Mills
Inc. in various operations, labor relations and human resource roles.

Mary K. Stadler— Senior Vice
President and Chief Accounting Officer — 51 — Served in this capacity since March 2, 2009. From April 1990 through August 2008, Ms. Stadler served in various finance leadership positions at Sprint Nextel Corporation and
its predecessor, Sprint Corporation, including Vice President — Finance Operations and most recently served as its Vice President — Assistant Controller.

Paul J. Weyandt— Senior Vice President Finance and Treasurer — 57 — Served in this capacity since April 2005. He served as Vice President and Treasurer of KCS and of
KCSR from September 2001 until March 2005. Before joining KCS, Mr. Weyandt was a consultant to the Structured Finance Group of GE Capital Corporation from May 2001 to September 2001. Prior to consulting, Mr. Weyandt spent 23 years
with BNSF Railway, most recently as Assistant Vice President Finance and Assistant Treasurer.

William J.
Wochner— Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer — 63 — Served in this capacity since February 2007. He served as Vice President and Interim General Counsel from December 2006 to January 2007. From September
2006 to December 2006, Mr. Wochner served as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. From March 2005 to September 2006, Mr. Wochner served as Vice President Sales and Marketing/Contracts for KCSR. From February 1993 to March 2005,
Mr. Wochner served as Vice President and General Solicitor of KCSR.

There are no arrangements or understandings between
the executive officers and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was or is to be selected as an officer of KCS, except with respect to the executive officers who have entered into employment agreements designating the position(s)
to be held by the executive officer.

None of the above officers is related to another, or to any of the directors of KCS, by
family.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

KCS’s website (www.kcsouthern.com) provides at no cost KCS’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those
reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports is made with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, KCS’s corporate governance guidelines, ethics and legal compliance policy, and the
charters of the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Compensation and Organization Committee of the Board of Directors are available on KCS’s website. These guidelines, policies and
charters are available in print without charge to any stockholder requesting them. Written requests for these materials may be made to the Corporate Secretary, P.O. Box 219335, Kansas City, Missouri 64121-9335 (or if by express delivery to
427 West 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64105).

See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data — Note 1 “Description of the Business” and Note 18 “Geographic Information” for more information on the description and general development of the Company’s business and financial information about
geographic areas.






