Item 1.Business

In this report, Williams (which includes The Williams Companies, Inc. and, unless the context otherwise requires, all of our subsidiaries) is at times referred to in the first person as “we,”
“us” or “our.” We also sometimes refer to Williams as the “Company.”

WEBSITE ACCESS TO REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION

We file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy
statements and other documents electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). You may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. You may also obtain such reports from the SEC’s Internet
website at www.sec.gov.

Our Internet website is www.williams.com.We make available free of charge
through the Investor tab of our Internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics for Senior Officers, Board committee charters and the Williams Code of
Business Conduct are also available on our Internet website. We will also provide, free of charge, a copy of any of our corporate documents listed above upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, One Williams Center, Suite 4700, Tulsa,
Oklahoma 74172.

GENERAL

We are an energy infrastructure company focused on connecting North America’s hydrocarbon resource plays to growing
markets for natural gas, NGLs, and olefins. Our operations span from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico to the Canadian oil sands.

Our interstate gas pipeline and domestic midstream interests are largely held through its significant investment in Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ), one of the largest energy master limited
partnerships. We own the general-partner interest and a 70 percent limited-partner interest in WPZ. We also own a Canadian midstream and domestic olefins production business, which processes oil sands off-gas and produces olefins for
petrochemical feedstocks.

We were founded in 1908, originally incorporated under the laws of the state of
Nevada in 1949 and reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in 1987. Williams’ headquarters are located in Tulsa, Oklahoma, with other major offices in Salt Lake City, Houston, the Four Corners Area and Pennsylvania. Our
telephone number is 918-573-2000.






SPIN-OFF OF WPX

On December 1, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a tax-free spinoff of 100 percent of our
exploration and production business, WPX Energy, Inc. (WPX), to our shareholders. On December 31, 2011, we distributed one share of WPX common stock for every three shares of Williams common stock. As a result, with the exception of the
December 31, 2011 balance sheet which no longer includes WPX, the consolidated financial statements reflect the results of operations and financial position of WPX as discontinued operations.

DIVIDEND GROWTH

We doubled our quarterly dividends from $0.125 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010 to $0.25 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011. Also, consistent with expected growing cash distributions from our
interest in WPZ, we expect continued dividend increases on a quarterly basis. Our Board of Directors has approved a dividend of $0.25875 per share for the first quarter of 2012 and we expect total 2012 dividends to be $1.09 per share, which is
approximately 41 percent higher than 2011.

RECENT EVENTS

In February 2012, Williams Partners completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the ownership interests in certain
entities from Delphi Midstream Partners, LLC. These entities primarily own the Laser Gathering System, which is comprised of 33 miles of 16-inch natural gas pipeline and associated gathering facilities in the Marcellus Shale in Susquehanna County,
Pennsylvania, as well as 10 miles of gathering lines in southern New York. This acquisition represents a strategic platform to enhance Williams Partners’ expansion in the Marcellus Shale by providing its customers with both operational flow
assurance and marketing flexibility. (See Results of Operations - Segments, Williams Partners.)






FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements — Note 18” for information with respect to each segment’s revenues, profits or losses and total assets.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Substantially
all our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Our activities in 2011 were primarily operated through the following business segments:



•Williams Partners— comprised of our master limited partnership WPZ, which includes gas pipeline and domestic midstream businesses.
The gas pipeline business includes interstate natural gas pipelines and pipeline joint venture investments, and the midstream business provides natural gas gathering, treating and processing services; NGL production, fractionation, storage,
marketing and transportation; deepwater production handling and crude oil transportation services and is comprised of several wholly owned and partially owned subsidiaries and joint venture investments.



•Midstream Canada & Olefins— primarily our Canadian midstream and domestic olefins operations. Our Canadian operations
include an oil sands off-gas processing plant located near Ft. McMurray, Alberta, and an NGL/olefin fractionation facility and butylenes/butane splitter (B/B splitter) facility, both of which are located at Redwater, Alberta, which is near Edmonton,
Alberta. In the Gulf of Mexico region, we own a 5/6 interest in and are the operator of an NGL light-feed olefins cracker plant in Geismar, Louisiana. We also own ethane and propane pipelines systems in Louisiana that provide feedstock to the
Geismar plant. Additionally, we own a refinery grade propylene splitter and associated pipeline. Our olefins business also operates an ethylene storage hub at Mont Belvieu using leased third-party underground storage wells.



•Other— primarily consists of corporate operations.

This report is organized to reflect this structure. Detailed discussion of each of our business segments follows.

Williams Partners

Gas Pipeline Business

Williams Partners owns and
operates a combined total of approximately 13,700 miles of pipelines with a total annual throughput of approximately 3,000 TBtu of natural gas and peak-day delivery capacity of approximately 13 MMdth of natural gas. Our gas pipeline businesses
consist primarily of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC (Transco) and Northwest Pipeline GP (Northwest Pipeline). Our gas pipeline business also holds interests in joint venture interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline systems
including a 49 percent interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream). Our gas pipeline businesses contributed revenues of approximately 21 percent, 24 percent and 30 percent oftotal revenuesin 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively.

Transco

Transco is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns and operates a 9,800-mile natural gas pipeline system
extending from Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and the offshore Gulf of Mexico through Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey to the New York City metropolitan area. The system serves
customers in Texas and 11 southeast and Atlantic seaboard states, including major metropolitan areas in Georgia, North Carolina, Washington, D.C., New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.






Pipeline system and customers

At December 31, 2011, Transco’s system had a mainline delivery capacity of approximately 5.6 MMdth of natural
gas per day from its production areas to its primary markets, including delivery capacity from the mainline to locations on its Mobile Bay Lateral. Using its Leidy Line along with market-area storage and transportation capacity, Transco can deliver
an additional 4.0 MMdth of natural gas per day for a system-wide delivery capacity total of approximately 9.6 MMdth of natural gas per day. Transco’s system includes 45 compressor stations, four underground storage fields, and an LNG storage
facility. Compression facilities at sea level-rated capacity total approximately 1.5 million horsepower.

Transco’s major natural gas transportation customers are public utilities and municipalities that provide service to
residential, commercial, industrial and electric generation end users. Shippers on Transco’s system include public utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users, electrical generators, gas marketers and producers.
Transco’s firm transportation agreements are generally long-term agreements with various expiration dates and account for the major portion of Transco’s business. Additionally, Transco offers storage services and interruptible
transportation services under short-term agreements.

Transco has natural gas storage capacity in four
underground storage fields located on or near its pipeline system or market areas and operates two of these storage fields. Transco also has storage capacity in an LNG storage facility that it owns and operates. The total usable gas storage capacity
available to Transco and its customers in such underground storage fields and LNG storage facility and through storage service contracts is approximately 200 Bcf of natural gas. At December 31, 2011, our customers had stored in our facilities
approximately 164 Bcf of natural gas. In addition, wholly owned subsidiaries of Transco operate and hold a 35 percent ownership interest in Pine Needle LNG Company, LLC, an LNG storage facility with 4 Bcf of storage capacity. Storage capacity
permits Transco’s customers to inject gas into storage during the summer and off-peak periods for delivery during peak winter demand periods.

Transco expansion projects

The pipeline
projects listed below were completed during 2011 or are future significant pipeline projects for which Transco has customer commitments.

Mobile Bay South II

The Mobile Bay South
II Expansion Project involved the addition of compression at Transco’s Station 85 in Choctaw County, Alabama, and modifications to existing facilities at Transco’s Station 83 in Mobile County, Alabama, to allow Transco to provide
additional firm transportation service southbound on the Mobile Bay line from Station 85 to various delivery points. The project was placed into service in May 2011 and provides incremental firm capacity of 380 Mdth/d.

85 North

The 85 North Expansion Project involved an expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system from Station 85 in Choctaw County, Alabama, to various delivery points as far north as North
Carolina. The first phase was placed into service in July 2010 and provides incremental firm capacity of 90 Mdth/d, and the second phase was placed into service in May 2011 and provides incremental firm capacity of 219 Mdth/d.

Mid-South

The Mid-South Expansion Project involves an expansion of Transco’s mainline from Station 85 in Choctaw County, Alabama, to markets as far downstream as North Carolina. In August 2011, Transco






received approval from the FERC. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $217 million. Transco plans to place the project into service in phases in September 2012 and
June 2013, and it is expected to increase capacity by 225 Mdth/d.

Mid-Atlantic Connector

The Mid-Atlantic Connector Project involves an expansion of Transco’s mainline from an existing
interconnection in North Carolina to markets as far downstream as Maryland. In July 2011, Transco received approval from the FERC. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $55 million. Transco plans to place the project into
service in November 2012, and it is expected to increase capacity by 142 Mdth/d.

Northeast Supply Link

In December 2011, Transco filed an application with the FERC to expand its existing
natural gas transmission system from the Marcellus Shale production region on the Leidy Line to various delivery points in New York and New Jersey. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $341 million. Transco plans to place
the project into service in November 2013, and it is expected to increase capacity by 250 Mdth/d.

Rockaway
Delivery Lateral

The Rockaway Delivery Lateral Project involves the construction of a
three-mile offshore lateral to a distribution system in New York. Transco anticipates filing an application with the FERC in 2012. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $182 million. Transco plans to place the project into
service as early as April 2014, and its capacity is expected to be 647 Mdth/d.

Northeast Connector

The Northeast Connector Project involves expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas
transmission system from southeastern Pennsylvania to the proposed Rockaway Delivery Lateral. Transco anticipates filing an application with the FERC in 2012. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $39 million. Transco
plans to place the project into service as early as April 2014, and its capacity is expected to be 100 Mdth/d.

Northwest Pipeline

Northwest Pipeline is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns and operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from the San Juan basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern
Colorado through Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington to a point on the Canadian border near Sumas, Washington. Northwest Pipeline provides services for markets in California, Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, Wyoming,
Idaho, Oregon, and Washington directly or indirectly through interconnections with other pipelines.

Pipeline system and customers

At December 31, 2011, Northwest Pipeline’s system, having long-term firm transportation agreements including
peaking service of approximately 3.8 MMdth/d, was composed of approximately 3,900 miles of mainline and lateral transmission pipelines and 41 transmission compressor stations having a combined sea level-rated capacity of approximately 477,000
horsepower.






Northwest Pipeline transports and stores natural gas for a broad mix of
customers, including local natural gas distribution companies, municipal utilities, direct industrial users, electric power generators and natural gas marketers and producers. Northwest Pipeline’s firm transportation and storage contracts are
generally long-term contracts with various expiration dates and account for the major portion of Northwest Pipeline’s business. Additionally, Northwest Pipeline offers interruptible and short-term firm transportation service.

Northwest Pipeline owns a one-third interest in the Jackson Prairie underground storage facility in Washington and
contracts with a third party for storage service in the Clay basin underground field in Utah. Northwest Pipeline also owns and operates an LNG storage facility in Washington. These storage facilities have an aggregate working gas storage capacity of
13 Bcf of natural gas, which is substantially utilized for third-party natural gas, and firm delivery capability of approximately 700 MMcf/d enable Northwest Pipeline to provide storage services to its customers and to balance daily receipts and
deliveries.

Northwest Pipeline expansion project

North and South Seattle Lateral Delivery Expansions

Northwest Pipeline has executed agreements with a customer to expand the North and South Seattle laterals
and provide additional lateral capacity of approximately 84 Mdth/d and 74 Mdth/d, respectively. The total estimated cost of the project is between $28 and $30 million. North Seattle is currently targeted for service in fall 2012 and South Seattle is
currently targeted for service in fall 2013.

Gulfstream

Gulfstream is a natural gas pipeline system extending from the Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in Florida. Williams
Partners owns, through a subsidiary, a 49 percent interest in Gulfstream while we own an additional 1 percent interest through a subsidiary in Other. Spectra Energy Corporation, through its subsidiary, and Spectra Energy Partners, LP, own the other
50 percent interest. Williams Partners shares operating responsibilities for Gulfstream with Spectra Energy Corporation.

Gulfstream Phase V

The Gulfstream
Phase V expansion involved the addition of compression to provide 35 Mdth/d of incremental firm transportation capacity. The expansion was placed in service in April 2011.

Midstream Business

Williams Partners’
midstream business, one of the nation’s largest natural gas gatherers and processors, has primary service areas concentrated in major producing basins in Colorado, New Mexico, Wyoming, the Gulf of Mexico, and Pennsylvania. The primary
businesses are: (1) natural gas gathering, treating, and processing; (2) NGL fractionation, storage and transportation; and (3) oil transportation. These fall within the middle of the process of taking raw natural gas and crude oil
from the producing fields to the consumer.

Key variables for this business will continue to be:



•Retaining and attracting customers by continuing to provide reliable services;



•Revenue growth associated with additional infrastructure either completed or currently under construction;



•Disciplined growth in core service areas and new step-out areas;



•Prices impacting commodity-based activities.

The midstream business revenue contributed approximately 75 percent, 72 percent, and 65 percent of Williams
Partners’ revenues in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.






Gathering, processing and treating

Williams Partners’ gathering systems receive natural gas from producers’ oil and natural gas wells and gather
these volumes to gas processing, treating or redelivery facilities. Typically, natural gas, in its raw form, is not acceptable for transportation in major interstate natural gas pipelines or for commercial use as a fuel. Williams Partners’
treating facilities remove water vapor, carbon dioxide, and other contaminants and collect condensate, but do not extract NGLs. Williams Partners’ is generally paid a fee based on the volume of natural gas gathered and/or treated, generally
measured in the BTU heating value.

In addition, natural gas contains various amounts of NGLs, which generally
have a higher value when separated from the natural gas stream. Our processing plants extract the NGLs in addition to removing water vapor, carbon dioxide, and other contaminants. NGL products include:



•Ethane, primarily used in the petrochemical industry as a feedstock for ethylene production, one of the basic building blocks for plastics;



•Propane, used for heating, fuel and as a petrochemical feedstock in the production of ethylene and propylene, another building block for
petrochemical-based products such as carpets, packing materials, and molded plastic parts;



•Normal butane, iso-butane and natural gasoline, primarily used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor gasoline or as a petrochemical
feedstock.

Our gas processing services generate revenues primarily from the following three
types of contracts:



•Fee-based: We are paid a fee based on the volume of natural gas processed, generally measured in the BTU heating value. Our customers are entitled
to the NGLs produced in connection with this type of processing agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 59 percent of the NGL production volumes were under fee-based contracts.



•Keep-whole: Under keep-whole contracts, we (1) process natural gas produced by customers, (2) retain some or all of the extracted NGLs as
compensation for our services, (3) replace the BTU content of the retained NGLs that were extracted during processing with natural gas purchases, also known as shrink replacement gas and (4) deliver an equivalent BTU content of natural gas
for customers at the plant outlet. NGLs we retain in connection with this type of processing agreement are referred to as our equity NGL production. Under these agreements, we have commodity exposure to the difference between NGL prices and natural
gas prices. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 38 percent of the NGL production volumes were under keep-whole contracts.



•Percent-of-Liquids: Under percent-of-liquids processing contracts, we (1) process natural gas produced by customers, (2) deliver to
customers an agreed-upon percentage of the extracted NGLs, (3) retain a portion of the extracted NGLs as compensation for our services and (4) deliver natural gas to customers at the plant outlet. Under this type of contract, we are not
required to replace the BTU content of the retained NGLs that were extracted during processing, and are therefore only exposed to NGL price movements. NGLs we retain in connection with this type of processing agreement are also referred to as our
equity NGL production. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 3 percent of the NGL production volumes were under percent-of-liquids contracts.

Our gathering and processing agreements have terms ranging from month-to-month to the life of the producing lease.
Generally, our gathering and processing agreements are long-term agreements.

Demand for gas gathering and
processing services is dependent on producers’ drilling activities, which is impacted by the strength of the economy, natural gas prices, and the resulting demand for natural gas by manufacturing and industrial companies and consumers. Williams
Partners’ gas gathering and processing customers are generally natural gas producers who have proved and/or producing natural gas fields in the areas






surrounding its infrastructure. During 2011, Williams Partners’ facilities gathered and processed gas for approximately 210 gas gathering and processing customers. Williams Partners’
top 5 gathering and processing customers accounted for approximately 50 percent of our gathering and processing revenue.

Demand for our equity NGLs is affected by economic conditions and the resulting demand from industries using these commodities to produce petrochemical-based products such as plastics, carpets, packing
materials and blending stocks for motor gasoline and the demand from consumers using these commodities for heating and fuel. NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene production, which has been shifting away from
the more expensive crude-based feedstocks.

Geographically, the midstream natural gas assets are positioned to
maximize commercial and operational synergies with our other assets. For example, most of the offshore gathering and processing assets attach and process or condition natural gas supplies delivered to the Transco pipeline. Our San Juan basin,
southwest Wyoming and Piceance systems are capable of delivering residue gas volumes into Northwest Pipeline’s interstate system in addition to third-party interstate systems. Our gathering system in Pennsylvania delivers residue gas volumes
into Transco’s pipeline in addition to third-party interstate systems.

Williams Partners owns and
operates gas gathering, processing and treating assets within the states of Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico, and Pennsylvania. We also own and operate gas gathering and processing assets and pipelines primarily within the onshore, offshore shelf, and
deepwater areas in and around the Gulf Coast states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.

The
following table summarizes our significant operated natural gas gathering assets as of December 31, 2011:



Natural Gas Gathering AssetsLocationPipelineMilesInletCapacity(Bcf/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsOnshoreRocky MountainWyoming3,5871.1100%Wamsutter & SW WyomingFour CornersColorado & New Mexico3,8231.8100%San JuanPiceanceColorado3281.4100%PiceanceNE PennsylvaniaPennsylvania750.7100%AppalachianLaurel Mountain (1)Pennsylvania1,3860.251%AppalachianGulf CoastCanyon Chief & Blind FaithDeepwater Gulf of Mexico1390.4100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoSeahawkDeepwater Gulf of Mexico1150.4100%Western Gulf of MexicoPerdido NorteDeepwater Gulf of Mexico1050.3100%Western Gulf of MexicoOffshore shelf & otherGulf of Mexico460.2100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoOffshore shelf & otherGulf of Mexico2450.9100%Western Gulf of MexicoDiscovery (1)Gulf of Mexico3190.660%Central Gulf of Mexico



(1)Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the equity method investments that we operate, however our financial statements report equity
method income from these investments based on our equity ownership percentage.

(2)In the first quarter of 2012, our Springville gathering pipeline was put into service, initially providing an optional takeaway for 0.3 Bcf/d of gas
gathered on our system in northeast Pennsylvania. Also in the first quarter of 2012, 0.3 Bcf/d of capacity was added from the Laser gathering system acquisition.






In addition we own and operate several natural gas treating facilities in
New Mexico, Colorado, Texas and Louisiana which bring natural gas to specifications allowable by major interstate pipelines. At our Milagro treating facility, we also use gas-driven turbines to produce approximately 60 mega-watts per day of
electricity which we primarily sell into the local electrical grid.

The following table summarizes our
significant operated natural gas processing facilities as of December 31, 2011:



Natural Gas Processing FacilitiesLocationInletCapacity(Bcf/d)NGLProductionCapacity(Mbbls/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsOnshoreOpalOpal, WY1.567100%SW WyomingEcho SpringsEcho Springs, WY0.758100%WamsutterIgnacioIgnacio, CO0.523100%San JuanKutzBloomfield, NM0.212100%San JuanLybrook (2)Lybrook, NM0.16100%San JuanWillow CreekRio Blanco County, CO0.530100%PiceanceParachuteGarfield County, CO1.47100%PiceanceGulf CoastMarkhamMarkham, TX0.545100%Western Gulf of MexicoMobile BayCoden, AL0.730100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoDiscovery (1)Larose, LA0.63260%Central Gulf of Mexico



(1)Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the equity method investments that we operate, however our financial statements report equity
method income from these investments based on our equity ownership percentage.

(2)Our Lybrook plant has been idled as of January 2012. Gas previously processed at Lybrook has been redirected to our Ignacio plant.

Crude oil transportation and production handling assets

In addition to our natural gas assets, we own and operate four deepwater crude oil pipelines and own production platforms
serving the deepwater in the Gulf of Mexico. Our crude oil transportation revenues are typically volumetric-based fee arrangements. However, a portion of our marketing revenues are recognized from purchase and sale arrangements whereby the oil that
we transport is purchased and sold as a function of the same index-based price. Our offshore floating production platforms provide centralized services to deepwater producers such as compression, separation, production handling, water removal and
pipeline landings. Revenue sources have historically included a combination of fixed-fee, volumetric-based fee and cost reimbursement arrangements. Fixed fees associated with the resident production at our Devils Tower facility are recognized on a
units-of-production basis.

The following table summarizes our significant crude oil transportation pipelines as of
December 31, 2011:



Crude Oil PipelinesPipelineMilesHandlingCapacity(Mbbls/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsMountaineer & Blind Faith155150100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoBANJO5790100%Western Gulf of MexicoAlpine9685100%Western Gulf of MexicoPerdido Norte74150100%Western Gulf of Mexico






The following table summarizes our production handling platforms as of
December 31, 2011:



Production Handling PlatformsGas InletCapacity(MMcf/d)Crude/NGLHandlingCapacity(Mbbls/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsDevils Tower21060100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoCanyon Station50016100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoDiscovery Grand Isle 115 (1)1501060%Central Gulf of Mexico



(1)Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the equity method investments that we operate, however our financial statements report equity
method income from these investments based on our equity ownership percentage.

NGL
marketing services

In addition to our gathering and processing operations, we market NGL products to a
wide range of users in the energy and petrochemical industries. The NGL marketing business transports and markets equity NGLs from the production at our processing plants, and also markets NGLs on behalf of third-party NGL producers, including some
of our fee-based processing customers, and the NGL volumes owned by Discovery Producer Services LLC (Discovery). The NGL marketing business bears the risk of price changes in these NGL volumes while they are being transported to final sales delivery
points. In order to meet sales contract obligations, we may purchase products in the spot market for resale. Other than a long-term agreement to sell our equity NGLs transported on Overland Pass Pipeline to ONEOK Hydrocarbon L.P., the majority of
sales are based on supply contracts of one year or less in duration. Sales to ONEOK Hydrocarbon L.P., accounted for 17 percent, 15 percent, and 9 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

Other operations

We own interests in and/or operate NGL fractionation and storage assets. These assets include a 50 percent interest in an NGL fractionation facility near Conway, Kansas, with capacity of slightly more
than 100 Mbbls/d and a 31.45 percent interest in another fractionation facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, with a capacity of 60 Mbbls/d. We also own approximately 20 million barrels of NGL storage capacity in central Kansas near Conway.

We own approximately 115 miles of pipelines in the Houston Shipping Channel area which transport a variety of
products including ethane, propane and other products used in the petrochemical industry.

We also own a 14.6
percent equity interest in Aux Sable Liquid Products L.P. (Aux Sable) and its Channahon, Illinois, gas processing and NGL fractionation facility near Chicago. The facility is capable of processing up to 2.1 Bcf/d of natural gas from the
Alliance Pipeline system and fractionating approximately 102 Mbbls/d of extracted liquids into NGL products. Additionally, in June 2011, Aux Sable acquired an 80 MMcf/d gas conditioning plant and a 12-inch, 83-mile gas pipeline infrastructure
in North Dakota that provides additional NGLs to Channahon from the Bakken Shale in the Williston basin.

Operated
Equity Investments

Discovery

We own a 60 percent equity interest in and operate the facilities of Discovery. Discovery’s assets include a
600 MMcf/d cryogenic natural gas processing plant near Larose, Louisiana, a 32 Mbbls/d NGL fractionator plant near Paradis, Louisiana, and an offshore natural gas gathering and transportation system in the Gulf of Mexico.






Laurel Mountain

We own a 51 percent interest in a joint venture, Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC (Laurel Mountain), in the Marcellus Shale
located in western Pennsylvania. Laurel Mountain’s assets, which we operate, include a gathering system of nearly 1,400 miles of pipeline with a capacity of approximately 230 MMcf/d. Laurel Mountain has a long-term, dedicated, volumetric-based
fee agreement, with some exposure to natural gas prices, to gather the anchor customer’s production in the western Pennsylvania area of the Marcellus Shale. Construction is ongoing for numerous new pipeline segments and compressor stations, the
largest of which is our Shamrock compressor station. The Shamrock compressor station currently has a capacity of 60 MMcf/d and is expandable to 350 MMcf/d.

Overland Pass Pipeline

We operate and own a 50 percent
ownership interest in Overland Pass Pipeline Company LLC (OPPL). OPPL includes a 760-mile NGL pipeline from Opal, Wyoming, to the Mid-Continent NGL market center in Conway, Kansas, along with 150- and 125-mile extensions into the Piceance and
Denver-Joules basins in Colorado, respectively. Our equity NGL volumes from our two Wyoming plants and our Willow Creek facility in Colorado are dedicated for transport on OPPL under a long-term transportation agreement. We plan to participate in
the construction of a pipeline connection and capacity expansions expected to be complete in early 2013, to increase the pipeline’s capacity to the maximum of 255 Mbbls/d, to accommodate new volumes coming from the Bakken Shale in the Williston
basin.

Operating statistics

The following table summarizes our significant operating statistics for Midstream:



201120102009Volumes: (1)Gathering (Tbtu)1,3771,2621,370Plant inlet natural gas (Tbtu)1,5921,5991,342NGL production (Mbbls/d) (2)189178164NGL equity sales (Mbbls/d) (2)778080Crude oil transportation (Mbbls/d) (2)10594109



(1)Excludes volumes associated with partially owned assets such as our Discovery and Laurel Mountain investments that are not consolidated for
financial reporting purposes.

(2)Annual average Mbbls/d.

Midstream Canada & Olefins

The Midstream Canada & Olefins segment consists of our Canadian midstream business and our domestic olefins business. The segment contributed revenues of approximately 17 percent, 16 percent and
14 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Midstream Canada

Our Canadian operations include an oil sands off-gas processing plant located near Ft. McMurray,
Alberta, and an NGL/olefin fractionation facility and butylene/butane splitter (B/B splitter) facility, both of which are located at Redwater, Alberta, which is near Edmonton, Alberta. We operate the Ft. McMurray area processing plant, while another
party operates the Redwater facilities on our behalf. The B/B splitter was completed and placed into service in August 2010. Our Ft. McMurray area facilities extract liquids from the off-gas produced by a third-party oil sands bitumen upgrading
process. Our arrangement with the third-party upgrader is a “keep-whole” type where we remove a mix of NGLs and olefins from the off-gas and return the equivalent heating






value to the third-party upgrader in the form of natural gas. We extract, fractionate, treat, store, terminal and sell the propane, propylene, normal butane (butane), isobutane/butylene
(butylene) and condensate recovered from this process. The commodity price exposure of this asset is the spread between the price for natural gas and the NGL and olefin products we produce. We continue to be the only NGL/olefins fractionator in
western Canada and the only treater/processor of oil sands upgrader off-gas. Our extraction of liquids from upgrader off-gas streams allows the upgraders to burn cleaner natural gas streams and reduces their overall air emissions.

The Ft. McMurray extraction plant has processing capacity of 121 MMcf/d with the ability to recover in excess of
17 Mbbls/d of olefin and NGL products. Our Redwater fractionator has a liquids handling capacity of 18 Mbbls/d. The B/B splitter, which has a production capacity of 3.7 Mbbls/d of butylene and 3.7 Mbbls/d of butane, further fractionates the
butylene/butane mix produced at our Redwater fractionators into separate butylene and butane products, which receive higher values and are in greater demand. We also purchase small volumes of olefin/NGLs mixes from third-party gas processors,
fractionate the olefins and NGLs at our Redwater plant and sell the resulting products. Our products are sold within Canada and the United States.

Canadian expansion projects

Construction is well underway on a 261-mile, 12-inch diameter Canadian pipeline which will transport recovered NGLs and
olefins from our processing plant in Ft. McMurray to our Redwater fractionation facility. The pipeline, which will have an initial capacity of 43 Mbbls/d that can be increased to an ultimate capacity of 125 Mbbls/d with additional pump
stations, will have sufficient capacity to transport additional NGLs and olefins from our existing operations as well as other NGLs and olefins produced from oil sands off-gas. The project is being constructed using cash previously generated from
Canadian and other international projects. We anticipate an in-service date in second quarter of 2012.

Construction began in the fourth quarter of 2011 on the ethane recovery project that will allow us to recover
ethane/ethylene mix from our operations that process off-gas from the Alberta oil sands. We are modifying our oil sands off-gas extraction plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta, and constructing a de-ethanizer at our Redwater fractionation facility. Our
de-ethanizer, which will have a production capacity of 17,000 bbls/d, will enable us to initially process approximately 10,000 bbls/d of ethane/ethylene mix. We have signed a long-term contract to provide the ethane/ethylene mix to a third-party
customer. We expect the project to be constructed using cash previously generated from Canadian and other international projects and we expect to complete the expansions and begin producing ethane/ethylene mix in the first quarter of 2013.

Domestic olefins

In the Gulf of Mexico region, we own a 5/6 interest in and are the operator of an NGL light-feed olefins cracker in
Geismar, Louisiana, with a total production capacity of 1.35 billion pounds of ethylene and 90 million pounds of propylene per year. Our feedstocks for the cracker are ethane and propane; as a result, these assets are primarily exposed to
the price spread between ethane and propane, and ethylene and propylene, respectively. Ethane and propane are available for purchase from third parties and from affiliates. We own ethane and propane pipeline systems in Louisiana that provide
feedstock transportation to the Geismar plant and other third-party crackers. Additionally, we own a refinery grade propylene splitter and associated pipeline with a production capacity of approximately 500 million pounds per year of propylene.
At our propylene splitter, we purchase refinery grade propylene and fractionate it into polymer grade propylene and propane; as a result this asset is exposed to the price spread between those commodities. As a merchant producer of ethylene and
propylene, our product sales are to customers for use in making plastics and other downstream petrochemical products destined for both domestic and export markets. Our olefins business also operates an ethylene storage hub at Mont Belvieu using
leased third-party underground storage wells.

We own and operate 63 miles of pipeline in the Houston Ship
Channel area which transport ammonia, tertiary butyl alcohol and other industrial gases for third parties. We also own a tunnel crossing pipeline under the Houston Ship Channel which contains multiple pipelines which are leased to third parties.






We also market olefin and NGL products to a wide range of users in the
energy and petrochemical industries. In order to meet sales contract obligations, we may purchase products for resale.

Domestic olefins expansion project

We
are currently in the detailed engineering and procurement phase of an expansion of our Geismar olefins production facility which will increase the facility’s ethylene production capacity by 600 million pounds per year to a new annual
capacity of 1.95 billion pounds. The additional capacity will be wholly owned by us. We expect to complete the expansion in the latter part of 2013.

Operating statistics

The following table summarizes our
significant operating statistics for Midstream Canada & Olefins:



201120102009Volumes:Geismar ethylene sales (millions of pounds)1,0389811,109Canadian propylene sales (millions of pounds)139127130Canadian NGL sales (millions of gallons)163145144

Additional Business Segment Information

Our ongoing business segments are accounted for as continuing operations in the accompanying financial statements and
notes to financial statements included in Part II.

Operations related to certain assets in
“Discontinued Operations” have been reclassified from their traditional business segment to “Discontinued Operations” in the accompanying financial statements and notes to financial statements included in Part II.

We perform certain management, legal, financial, tax, consultation, information technology, administrative
and other services for our subsidiaries.

Our principal sources of cash are from dividends, distributions and
advances from our subsidiaries, investments, payments by subsidiaries for services rendered, and, if needed, external financings, sales of master limited partnership units to the public, and net proceeds from asset sales. The amount of dividends
available to us from subsidiaries largely depends upon each subsidiary’s earnings and operating capital requirements. The terms of certain subsidiaries’ borrowing arrangements may limit the transfer of funds to us under certain conditions.

We believe that we have adequate sources and availability of raw materials and commodities for existing and
anticipated business needs. Our interstate pipeline systems are all regulated in various ways resulting in the financial return on the investments made in the systems being limited to standards permitted by the regulatory agencies. Each of the
pipeline systems has ongoing capital requirements for efficiency and mandatory improvements, with expansion opportunities also necessitating periodic capital outlays.






REGULATORY MATTERS

Williams Partners

Gas Pipeline Business.Williams Partners gas pipeline’s interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and under the
Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, and, as such, its rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, its accounting, and the extension, enlargement or abandonment of its jurisdictional facilities, among other things, are
subject to regulation. Each gas pipeline company holds certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the FERC authorizing ownership and operation of all pipelines, facilities and properties for which certificates are required under the
NGA. Each gas pipeline company is also subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, and the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, and the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Jobs Creation Act of 2011, which regulates
safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas transmission facilities. FERC Standards of Conduct govern how our interstate pipelines communicate and do business with gas marketing employees.
Among other things, the Standards of Conduct require that interstate pipelines not operate their systems to preferentially benefit gas marketing functions.

Each of our interstate natural gas pipeline companies establishes its rates primarily through the FERC’s ratemaking process. Key determinants in the ratemaking process are:



•Costs of providing service, including depreciation expense;



•Allowed rate of return, including the equity component of the capital structure and related income taxes;



•Contract and volume throughput assumptions.

The allowed rate of return is determined in each rate case. Rate design and the allocation of costs between the
reservation and commodity rates also impact profitability. As a result of these proceedings, certain revenues previously collected may be subject to refund.

Pipeline Integrity Regulations

Midstream Business.For Williams Partners’ midstream business, onshore gathering is subject to regulation by states in which we operate and offshore gathering is subject to the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA). Of the states where the midstream business gathers gas, currently only Texas actively regulates gathering activities. Texas regulates gathering primarily through complaint mechanisms under which the state






commission may resolve disputes involving an individual gathering arrangement. Although offshore gathering facilities are not subject to the NGA, offshore transmission pipelines are subject to
the NGA, and in recent years the FERC has taken a broad view of offshore transmission, finding many shallow-water pipelines to be jurisdictional transmission. Most offshore gathering facilities are subject to the OCSLA, which provides in part that
outer continental shelf pipelines “must provide open and nondiscriminatory access to both owner and nonowner shippers.”

The midstream business also owns interests in and operates two offshore transmission pipelines that are regulated by the FERC because they are deemed to transport gas in interstate commerce. Black Marlin
Pipeline Company provides transportation service for offshore Texas production in the High Island area and redelivers that gas to intrastate pipeline interconnects near Texas City. Discovery provides transportation service for offshore Louisiana
production from the South Timbalier, Grand Isle, Ewing Bank and Green Canyon (deepwater) areas to an onshore processing facility and downstream interconnect points with major interstate pipelines. FERC regulation requires all terms and conditions of
service, including the rates charged, to be filed with and approved by the FERC before any changes can go into effect.

The midstream business owns a 50 percent interest in, and is the operator of OPPL, which is an interstate natural gas liquids pipeline regulated by the FERC pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Act. OPPL
provides transportation service pursuant to tariffs filed with the FERC.

Midstream Canada & Olefins

Our Canadian assets are regulated by the Energy Resources Conservation Board (ERCB) and Alberta
Environment. The regulatory system for the Alberta oil and gas industry incorporates a large measure of self-regulation, providing that licensed operators are held responsible for ensuring that their operations are conducted in accordance with all
provincial regulatory requirements. For situations in which noncompliance with the applicable regulations is at issue, the ERCB and Alberta Environment have implemented an enforcement process with escalating consequences.

Our domestic olefins assets are regulated by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LQEQ), the Texas Railroad
Commission, and various other state and federal entities regarding our liquids pipelines.

See Note 16 of
our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on our regulatory matters.






ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Our operations are subject to federal environmental laws and regulations as well as the state, local and tribal laws and
regulations adopted by the jurisdictions in which we operate. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, or water, as well as liability for cleanup costs. Materials could be
released into the environment in several ways including, but not limited to:



•Leakage from gathering systems, underground gas storage caverns, pipelines, processing or treating facilities, transportation facilities and storage
tanks;



•Damage to facilities resulting from accidents during normal operations;



•Damages to onshore and offshore equipment and facilities resulting from storm events or natural disasters;



•Blowouts, cratering and explosions.

In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by former owners or operators of our properties.

We believe compliance with current environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or current competitive position. However, environmental
laws and regulations could affect our business in various ways from time to time, including incurring capital and maintenance expenditures, fines and penalties, and creating the need to seek relief from the FERC for rate increases to recover the
costs of certain capital expenditures and operation and maintenance expenses.

For additional information
regarding the potential impact of federal, state, tribal or local regulatory measures on our business and specific environmental issues, please refer to “Risk Factors –We are subject to risks associated with climate changeand– Our operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and expenditures and could exceed current expectations,”“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Environmental” and “Environmental Matters” in Note 16 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.






COMPETITION

Williams Partners

For Williams Partners’ gas pipeline business, the natural gas industry has undergone significant change over the past two decades. A highly-liquid competitive commodity market in natural gas and
increasingly competitive markets for natural gas services, including competitive secondary markets in pipeline capacity, have developed. More recently large reserves of shale gas have been discovered, in many cases much closer to major market
centers. As a result, pipeline capacity is being used more efficiently and competition among pipeline suppliers to attach growing supply to market has increased.

Local distribution company (LDC) and electric industry restructuring by states have affected pipeline markets.
Pipeline operators are increasingly challenged to accommodate the flexibility demanded by customers and allowed under tariffs, but the changes implemented at the state level have not required renegotiation of LDC contracts. The state plans have in
some cases discouraged LDCs from signing long-term contracts for new capacity.

States have developed new
plans that require utilities to encourage energy saving measures and diversify their energy supplies to include renewable sources. This has lowered the growth of residential gas demand. However, due to relatively low prices of natural gas, demand
for electric power generation has increased.

These factors have increased the risk that customers will reduce
their contractual commitments for pipeline capacity from traditional producing areas. Future utilization of pipeline capacity will depend on these factors and others impacting both U.S. and global demand for natural gas.

In Williams Partners’ midstream business, we face regional competition with varying competitive factors in each
basin. Our gathering and processing business competes with other midstream companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines, producers and independent gatherers and processors. We primarily compete with five to ten companies across all basins in which
we provide services. Numerous factors impact any given customer’s choice of a gathering or processing services provider, including rate, location, term, reliability, timeliness of services to be provided, pressure obligations and contract
structure. We also compete in recruiting and retaining skilled employees.

Midstream Canada & Olefins

Ethylene and propylene markets, and therefore our olefins business, compete in a worldwide marketplace.
Due to our NGL feedstock position at Geismar, we expect to benefit from the lower cost position in North America versus other crude-based feedstocks worldwide. The majority of North American olefins producers have significant downstream
petrochemical manufacturing for plastics and other products. As such, they buy or sell ethylene and propylene as required. We operate as a merchant seller of olefins with no downstream manufacturing, and therefore can be either a supplier or a
competitor at any given time to these other companies depending on their market balances. Generally, we are viewed primarily as a supplier to these companies and not as a direct competitor. We compete on the basis of service, price and availability
of the products we produce.

Our Canadian midstream facilities continue to be the only NGL/olefins fractionator
in western Canada and the only treater/processor of oil sands upgrader off-gas. Our extraction of liquids from the upgrader off-gas stream allows the upgraders to burn cleaner natural gas streams and reduce their overall air emissions. Our Canadian
midstream business competes for the sale of its products with traditional Canadian midstream companies on the basis of operational expertise, price, service offerings and availability of the products we produce.






EMPLOYEES

At February 1, 2012, we had approximately 4,293 full-time employees.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

See Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for amounts of revenues during the last three fiscal
years from external customers attributable to the United States and all foreign countries. Also see Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to long-lived assets during the last three fiscal years,
located in the United States and all foreign countries.






