Item 1.Business

In this report, Williams (which includes The Williams Companies, Inc. and, unless the context otherwise indicates, all of our subsidiaries) is at times referred to in the first person as “we,” “us” or “our.” We also sometimes refer to Williams as the “Company.”



WEBSITE ACCESS TO REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION

We file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other documents electronically with the SEC under the Exchange Act. You may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. You may also obtain such reports from the SEC’s Internet website at www.sec.gov.

Our Internet website is www.williams.com.We make available free of charge through the Investor tab of our Internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics for Senior Officers, Board committee charters and the Williams Code of Business Conduct are also available on our Internet website. We will also provide, free of charge, a copy of any of our corporate documents listed above upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, One Williams Center, Suite 4700, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172.



GENERAL

We are primarily an energy infrastructure company focused on connecting North America’s significant hydrocarbon resource plays to growing markets for natural gas, NGLs, and olefins. Our operations are located principally in the United States, but span from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico to the Canadian oil sands.

Our interstate gas pipelines, domestic midstream, and domestic olefins production interests are largely held through our significant investment inWilliams Partners L.P.(WPZ), one of the largest energy master limited partnerships. As of December 31, 2013, we own the general partner interest and a 62 percent limited-partner interest in WPZ.  We also own a Canadian midstream business, which processes oil sands and offgas and produces olefins for petrochemical feedstocks, as well as a significant equity investment in Access Midstream Partners, which owns midstream assets in major unconventional producing areas.

We were founded in 1908, originally incorporated under the laws of the state of Nevada in 1949 and reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in 1987. Williams’ headquarters are located in Tulsa, Oklahoma, with other major offices in Salt Lake City, Houston, the Four Corners Area, and Pennsylvania. Our telephone number is 918-573-2000.



DIVIDENDS

We increased our quarterly dividends from $0.325 per share in the fourth quarter of 2012 to $0.38 per share in the fourth quarter of 2013. Our Board of Directors has approved a dividend of $0.40250 per share for the first quarter of 2014.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements —Note 18 – Segment Disclosures” for information with respect to each segment’s revenues, profits or losses and total assets.












BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Substantially all our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Our activities in 2013 were primarily operated through the following business segments:

•Williams Partners— comprised of our master limited partnership WPZ, which includes gas pipeline and domestic  midstream businesses. The gas pipeline business includes interstate natural gas pipelines and pipeline joint project investments, and the midstream business provides natural gas gathering, treating and processing services; NGL production, fractionation, storage, marketing and transportation; deepwater production handling and crude oil transportation services; an olefin production business and is comprised of several wholly owned and partially owned subsidiaries and joint project investments.

•Williams NGL & Petchem Services— primarily comprised of our Canadian midstream operations and certain domestic olefins pipeline assets. Our Canadian assets include an oil sands offgas processing plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta, an NGL/olefin fractionation facility and B/B splitter facility at Redwater, Alberta, the Boreal Pipeline, certain Canadian growth projects including a propane dehydrogenation facility, and the Bluegrass Pipeline, a new joint project, which would connect processing facilities in the Marcellus and Utica shale-gas areas in the U.S. Northeast to growing petrochemical and export markets in the U.S. Gulf Coast.

•Access Midstream Partners— comprised of an indirect equity interest in Access GP and limited partner interests in ACMP, which we purchased in the fourth quarter of 2012. ACMP is a publicly traded master limited partnership that provides gathering, processing, treating and compression services to Chesapeake Energy Corporation and other producers under long-term, fee-based contracts. Access GP is the general partner of ACMP. (SeeNote 2 – Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Other Intangible Assetsof Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

•Other— primarily comprised of corporate operations.

This report is organized to reflect this structure. Detailed discussion of each of our business segments follows. For a discussion of our ongoing expansion projects, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



Williams Partners

Gas Pipeline Business

Williams Partners' gas pipeline businesses consist primarily of Transco and Northwest Pipeline. Our gas pipeline business also holds interests in joint venture interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline systems including a 50 percent interest in Gulfstream and a 41 percent interest in Constitution. Transco and Northwest Pipeline own and operate a combined total of approximately 13,600 miles of pipelines with a total annual throughput of approximately 3,870 TBtu of natural gas and peak-day delivery capacity of approximately 14 MMdth of natural gas.

Transco

Transco is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns and operates a 9,700-mile natural gas pipeline system extending from Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and the offshore Gulf of Mexico through Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania and New Jersey to the New York City metropolitan area. The system serves customers in Texas and 12 southeast and Atlantic seaboard states, including major metropolitan areas in Georgia, North Carolina, Washington, D.C., Maryland, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.

Pipeline system and customers

At December 31, 2013, Transco’s system had a mainline delivery capacity of approximately 5.9MMdthof natural gas per day from its production areas to its primary markets, including delivery capacity from the mainline to locations on its Mobile Bay Lateral. Using its Leidy Line along with market-area storage and transportation capacity, Transco can deliver an additional 4.3MMdthof natural gas per day for a system-wide delivery capacity










total of approximately 10.2MMdthof natural gas per day. Transco’s system includes 45 compressor stations, four underground storage fields, and an LNG storage facility. Compression facilities at sea level-rated capacity total approximately 1.7 million horsepower.

Transco’s major natural gas transportation customers are public utilities and municipalities that provide service to residential, commercial, industrial and electric generation end users. Shippers on Transco’s system include public utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users, electrical generators, gas marketers and producers. Transco’s firm transportation agreements are generally long-term agreements with various expiration dates and account for the major portion of Transco’s business. Additionally, Transco offers interruptible transportation services under shorter-term agreements.

Transco has natural gas storage capacity in four underground storage fields located on or near its pipeline system or market areas and operates two of these storage fields. Transco also has storage capacity in an LNG storage facility that we own and operate. The total usable gas storage capacity available to Transco and its customers in such underground storage fields and LNG storage facility and through storage service contracts is approximately 200Bcfof natural gas. At December 31, 2013, our customers had stored in our facilities approximately 143Bcfof natural gas. In addition, wholly owned subsidiaries of Transco operate and hold a 35 percent ownership interest in Pine Needle LNG Company, LLC, an LNG storage facility with 4Bcfof storage capacity. Storage capacity permits Transco’s customers to inject gas into storage during the summer and off-peak periods for delivery during peak winter demand periods.

Northwest Pipeline

Northwest Pipeline is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns and operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from the San Juan basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado through Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington to a point on the Canadian border near Sumas, Washington. Northwest Pipeline provides services for markets in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Wyoming, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, California, and Arizona directly or indirectly through interconnections with other pipelines.

Pipeline system and customers

At December 31, 2013, Northwest Pipeline’s system, having long-term firm transportation and storage redelivery agreements of approximately 3.9 MMdth/d, was composed of approximately 3,900 miles of mainline and lateral transmission pipelines and 41 transmission compressor stations having a combined sea level-rated capacity of approximately 472,000 horsepower.

Northwest Pipeline transports and stores natural gas for a broad mix of customers, including local natural gas distribution companies, municipal utilities, direct industrial users, electric power generators and natural gas marketers and producers. Northwest Pipeline’s firm transportation and storage contracts are generally long-term contracts with various expiration dates and account for the major portion of Northwest Pipeline’s business. Additionally, Northwest Pipeline offers interruptible and short-term firm transportation service.

Northwest Pipeline owns a one-third interest in the Jackson Prairie underground storage facility in Washington and contracts with a third party for storage service in the Clay basin underground field in Utah. Northwest Pipeline also owns and operates an LNG storage facility in Washington. These storage facilities have an aggregate working gas storage capacity of 14.2 MMdth of natural gas, which is substantially utilized for third-party natural gas. These natural gas storage facilities enable Northwest Pipeline to balance daily receipts and deliveries and provide storage services to certain customers.

Gulfstream

Gulfstream is an interstate natural gas pipeline system extending from the Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in Florida. Williams Partners owns, through a subsidiary, a 50 percent interest in Gulfstream. Spectra Energy Corporation, through its subsidiary, Spectra Energy Partners, LP, owns the other 50 percent interest. Williams Partners shares operating responsibilities for Gulfstream with Spectra Energy Corporation.










Midstream Business

Williams Partners’ midstream business, one of the nation’s largest natural gas gatherers and processors, has primary service areas concentrated in major producing basins in Colorado, New Mexico, Wyoming, the Gulf of Mexico, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York, and Ohio. The primary businesses are: (1) natural gas gathering, treating, and processing; (2) NGL fractionation, storage and transportation; (3) oil transportation; and (4) olefins production. These fall within the middle of the process of taking raw natural gas and crude oil from the producing fields to the consumer.

Key variables for this business will continue to be:

•Retaining and attracting customers by continuing to provide reliable services;

•Revenue growth associated with additional infrastructure either completed or currently under construction;

•Disciplined growth in core service areas and new step-out areas;

•Producer drilling activities impacting natural gas supplies supporting our gathering and processing volumes;

•Prices impacting commodity-based activities.

Gathering, Processing, and Treating

Williams Partners’ gathering systems receive natural gas from producers’ oil and natural gas wells and gather these volumes to gas processing, treating or redelivery facilities. Typically, natural gas, in its raw form, is not acceptable for transportation in major interstate natural gas pipelines or for commercial use as a fuel. Williams Partners’ treating facilities remove water vapor, carbon dioxide, and other contaminants and collect condensate, but do not extract NGLs. Williams Partners’ is generally paid a fee based on the volume of natural gas gathered and/or treated, generally measured in the Btu heating value.

In addition, natural gas contains various amounts of NGLs, which generally have a higher value when separated from the natural gas stream. Our processing plants extract the NGLs in addition to removing water vapor, carbon dioxide, and other contaminants. NGL products include:

•Ethane, primarily used in the petrochemical industry as a feedstock for ethylene production, one of the basic building blocks for plastics;

•Propane, used for heating, fuel and as a petrochemical feedstock in the production of ethylene and propylene, another building block for petrochemical-based products such as carpets, packing materials, and molded plastic parts;

•Normal butane, isobutane and natural gasoline, primarily used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor gasoline or as a petrochemical feedstock.

Our gas processing services generate revenues primarily from the following three types of contracts:

•Fee-based: We are paid a fee based on the volume of natural gas processed, generally measured in the Btu heating value. Our customers are entitled to the NGLs produced in connection with this type of processing agreement. Beginning in 2013, a portion of our fee-based processing revenues includes a share of the margins on the NGLs produced. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 72 percent of the NGL production volumes were under fee-based contracts.

•Keep-whole: Under keep-whole contracts, we (1) process natural gas produced by customers, (2) retain some or all of the extracted NGLs as compensation for our services, (3) replace the Btu content of the retained NGLs that were extracted during processing with natural gas purchases, also known as shrink replacement gas, and (4) deliver an equivalent Btu content of natural gas for customers at the plant outlet. NGLs we retain in










connection with this type of processing agreement are referred to as our equity NGL production. Under these agreements, we have commodity price exposure on the difference between NGL and natural gas prices. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 26 percent of the NGL production volumes were under keep-whole contracts.

•Percent-of-Liquids: Under percent-of-liquids processing contracts, we (1) process natural gas produced by customers, (2) deliver to customers an agreed-upon percentage of the extracted NGLs, (3) retain a portion of the extracted NGLs as compensation for our services, and (4) deliver natural gas to customers at the plant outlet. Under this type of contract, we are not required to replace the Btu content of the retained NGLs that were extracted during processing, and are therefore only exposed to NGL price movements. NGLs we retain in connection with this type of processing agreement are also referred to as our equity NGL production. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 2 percent of the NGL production volumes were under percent-of-liquids contracts.

Our gathering and processing agreements have terms ranging from month-to-month to the life of the producing lease. Generally, our gathering and processing agreements are long-term agreements.

Demand for gas gathering and processing services is dependent on producers’ drilling activities, which is impacted by the strength of the economy, natural gas prices, and the resulting demand for natural gas by manufacturing and industrial companies and consumers. Williams Partners’ gas gathering and processing customers are generally natural gas producers who have proved and/or producing natural gas fields in the areas surrounding its infrastructure. During 2013, Williams Partners’ facilities gathered and processed gas for approximately 220 customers. Williams Partners’ top five gathering and processing customers accounted for approximately 50 percent of our gathering and processing revenue.

Demand for our equity NGLs is affected by economic conditions and the resulting demand from industries using these commodities to produce petrochemical-based products such as plastics, carpets, packing materials and blending stocks for motor gasoline and the demand from consumers using these commodities for heating and fuel. NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene production, which has been shifting away from the more expensive crude-based feedstocks.

Geographically, the midstream natural gas assets are positioned to maximize commercial and operational synergies with our other assets. For example, most of the offshore gathering and processing assets attach and process or condition natural gas supplies delivered to the Transco pipeline. Our San Juan basin, southwest Wyoming, and Piceance systems are capable of delivering residue gas volumes into Northwest Pipeline’s interstate system in addition to third-party interstate systems. Our gathering system in Pennsylvania delivers residue gas volumes into Transco’s pipeline in addition to third-party interstate systems.

Williams Partners owns and operates gas gathering, processing and treating assets within the states of Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York, and Ohio. We also own and operate gas gathering and processing assets and pipelines primarily within the onshore, offshore shelf, and deepwater areas in and around the Gulf Coast states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.










The following table summarizes our significant operated natural gas gathering assets as of December 31, 2013:

Natural Gas Gathering AssetsLocationPipelineMilesInletCapacity(Bcf/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsWestRocky MountainWyoming3,5871.1100%Wamsutter & SW WyomingFour CornersColorado & New Mexico3,8411.8100%San JuanPiceanceColorado3281.4(2)PiceanceNortheastOhio ValleyWest Virginia1740.8100%AppalachianSusquehanna Supply HubPennsylvania & New York2772.3100%AppalachianLaurel Mountain (1)Pennsylvania2,0440.751%AppalachianAtlantic-GulfCanyon Chief & Blind FaithDeepwater Gulf of Mexico1390.5100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoSeahawkDeepwater Gulf of Mexico1150.4100%Western Gulf of MexicoPerdido NorteDeepwater Gulf of Mexico1050.3100%Western Gulf of MexicoOffshore shelf & otherGulf of Mexico460.2100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoOffshore shelf & otherGulf of Mexico2081.1100%Western Gulf of MexicoDiscovery (1)Gulf of Mexico3580.660%Central Gulf of Mexico

_______________

(1)Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the jointly owned investments that we operate; however, our financial statements report equity method income from these investments based on our equity ownership percentage.

(2)We own 60 percent of a gathering system in the Ryan Gulch area, which we operate, with 140 miles of pipeline and 200 MMcf/d of inlet capacity.  We own and operate 100 percent of the balance of the Piceance gathering system.

In addition, we own and operate several natural gas treating facilities in New Mexico, Colorado, Texas, and Louisiana which bring natural gas to specifications allowable by major interstate pipelines. At our Milagro treating facility, we also use gas-driven turbines that have the capacity to produce 60 mega-watts per day of electricity which we primarily sell into the local electrical grid.

The following table summarizes our significant operated natural gas processing facilities as of December 31, 2013:

Natural Gas Processing FacilitiesLocationInletCapacity(Bcf/d)NGLProductionCapacity(Mbbls/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsWestOpalOpal, WY1.570100%SW WyomingEcho SpringsEcho Springs, WY0.758100%WamsutterIgnacioIgnacio, CO0.523100%San JuanKutzBloomfield, NM0.212100%San JuanWillow CreekRio Blanco County, CO0.530100%PiceanceParachuteGarfield County, CO1.37100%PiceanceNortheastFort BeelerMarshall County, WV0.562100%AppalachianAtlantic-GulfMarkhamMarkham, TX0.545100%Western Gulf of MexicoMobile BayCoden, AL0.730100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoDiscovery (1)Larose, LA0.63260%Central Gulf of Mexico










__________

(1)Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the jointly owned investment that we operate; however, our financial statements report equity method income from this investment based on our equity ownership percentage.

Crude Oil Transportation and Production Handling Assets

In addition to our natural gas assets, we own and operate four deepwater crude oil pipelines and own production platforms serving the deepwater in the Gulf of Mexico. Our crude oil transportation revenues are typically volumetric-based fee arrangements. However, a portion of our marketing revenues are recognized from purchase and sale arrangements whereby the oil that we transport is purchased and sold as a function of the same index-based price. Our offshore floating production platforms provide centralized services to deepwater producers such as compression, separation, production handling, water removal, and pipeline landings. Revenue sources have historically included a combination of fixed-fee, volumetric-based fee and cost reimbursement arrangements. Fixed fees associated with the resident production at our Devils Tower facility are recognized on a units-of-production basis.

The following tables summarize our significant crude oil transportation pipelines and production handling platforms as of December 31, 2013:

Crude Oil PipelinesPipelineMilesCapacity(Mbbls/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsMountaineer & Blind Faith155150100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoBANJO5790100%Western Gulf of MexicoAlpine9685100%Western Gulf of MexicoPerdido Norte74150100%Western Gulf of Mexico

Production Handling PlatformsGas InletCapacity(MMcf/d)Crude/NGLHandlingCapacity(Mbbls/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsDevils Tower21060100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoDiscovery Grand Isle 115 (1)1501060%Central Gulf of Mexico

___________

(1)Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the jointly owned investment that we operate; however, our financial statements report equity method income from this investment based on our equity ownership percentage.



Gulf Olefins

WPZ has an 83.3 percent undivided interest and operatorship of the olefins production facility in Geismar, Louisiana, along with a refinery grade propylene splitter, and pipelines in the Gulf region. Our olefins business also operates an ethylene storage hub at Mont Belvieu using leased third-party underground storage caverns.

Our olefins production facility has a total production capacity of 1.35 billion pounds of ethylene and 90 million pounds of propylene per year. Our feedstocks for the cracker are ethane and propane; as a result, these assets are primarily exposed to the price spread between ethane and propane, and ethylene and propylene, respectively. Ethane and propane are available for purchase from third parties and from affiliates. We own ethane and propane pipeline systems in Louisiana that provide feedstock transportation to the Geismar plant and other third-party crackers. We also own a pipeline that has the capacity to supply 12 Mbbls/d of ethane from Discovery’s Paradis fractionator to the Geismar plant.



On June 13, 2013, an explosion and fire occurred at our Geismar olefins plant. The incident (Geismar Incident) rendered the facility temporarily inoperable and resulted in significant human, financial, and operational effects. Repairs are underway and an expansion is planned to increase the facility’s ethylene production capacity by 600 million pounds per year. Following the repair and plant expansion, the Geismar plant is expected to be operational in June 2014.  (See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview.)










Our refinery grade propylene splitter has a production capacity of approximately 500 million pounds per year of propylene. At our propylene splitter, we purchase refinery grade propylene and fractionate it into polymer grade propylene and propane; as a result, this asset is exposed to the price spread between those commodities.

As a merchant producer of ethylene and propylene, our product sales are to customers for use in making plastics and other downstream petrochemical products destined for both domestic and export markets.

Marketing Services

We market NGL products to a wide range of users in the energy and petrochemical industries. The NGL marketing business transports and markets our equity NGLs from the production at our processing plants, and also markets NGLs on behalf of third-party NGL producers, including some of our fee-based processing customers, and the NGL volumes owned by Discovery. The NGL marketing business bears the risk of price changes in these NGL volumes while they are being transported to final sales delivery points. In order to meet sales contract obligations, we may purchase products in the spot market for resale. Other than a long-term agreement to sell our equity NGLs transported on OPPL to ONEOK Hydrocarbon L.P., the majority of sales are based on supply contracts of one year or less in duration. Sales to ONEOK Hydrocarbon L.P., accounted for 9 percent, 14 percent, and 17 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.

In certain situations to facilitate our gas gathering and processing activities, we buy natural gas from our producer customers for resale.

We also market olefin products to a wide range of users in the energy and petrochemical industries. In order to meet sales contract obligations, we may purchase olefin products for resale.

Other NGL & Petchem Operations

We own interests in and/or operate NGL fractionation and storage assets. These assets include a 50 percent interest in an NGL fractionation facility near Conway, Kansas, with capacity of slightly more than 100 Mbbls/d and a 31.5 percent interest in another fractionation facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, with a capacity of 60 Mbbls/d. We also own approximately 20 million barrels of NGL storage capacity in central Kansas near Conway.

We own approximately 170 miles of pipelines in the Houston Ship Channel area which transport a variety of products including ethane, propane, ammonia, tertiary butyl alcohol, and other industrial products used in the petrochemical industry. We also own a tunnel crossing pipeline under the Houston Ship Channel which contains multiple pipelines which are leased to third parties.

We also own a 14.6 percent equity interest inAux Sableand its Channahon, Illinois, gas processing and NGL fractionation facility near Chicago. The facility is capable of processing up to 2.1 Bcf/d of natural gas from the Alliance Pipeline system and fractionating approximately 102 Mbbls/d of extracted liquids into NGL products. Additionally,Aux Sableowns an 80 MMcf/d gas conditioning plant and a 12-inch, 83-mile gas pipeline infrastructure in North Dakota that provides additional NGLs to Channahon from the Bakken Shale in the Williston basin.

WPZ Operating Areas

WPZ organizes these businesses into the following operating areas:

Northeast G&P is comprised of the midstream gathering and processing businesses in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions, as well as a 51 percent equity investment in Laurel Mountain and a 47.5 percent equity investment in Caiman II.

Atlantic-Gulf is comprised of Transco and significant natural gas gathering and processing and crude production handling and transportation in the Gulf Coast region, as well as a 50 percent equity investment in Gulfstream, a 41 percent interest in Constitution (a consolidated entity), and a 60 percent equity investment in Discovery.

West is comprised of the gathering, processing and treating operations in New Mexico, Colorado, and Wyoming and Northwest Pipeline.










NGL & Petchem Services is comprised of the energy commodities marketing business, an NGL fractionator and storage facilities near Conway, Kansas, a 50 percent equity investment in OPPL, and an 83.3 percent undivided interest in an olefins production facility in Geismar, Louisiana, along with a refinery grade propylene splitter and pipelines in the Gulf Coast region.

Operated Equity Investments

Discovery

We own a 60 percent equity interest in and operate the facilities of Discovery. Discovery’s assets include a 600

MMcf/d cryogenic natural gas processing plant near Larose, Louisiana, a 32 Mbbls/d NGL fractionator plant near Paradis, Louisiana, and an offshore natural gas gathering and transportation system in the Gulf of Mexico. Construction is in progress for the Keathley Canyon Connector, a deepwater lateral pipeline in the central deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The lateral pipeline is estimated to have the capacity to flow more than 400 MMcf/d and will accommodate the tie-in of other deepwater prospects.

Laurel Mountain

We own a 51 percent equity interest in a joint venture, Laurel Mountain, that includes a gathering system that we operate in western Pennsylvania. Laurel Mountain has a long-term, dedicated, volumetric-based fee agreement, with exposure to natural gas prices, to gather the anchor customer’s production in the western Pennsylvania area of the Marcellus Shale.

Overland Pass Pipeline

We also operate and own a 50 percent ownership interest inOPPL.OPPLis capable of transporting 255 Mbbls/d and includes approximately 1,096 miles of NGL pipeline extending from Opal, Wyoming, to the Mid-Continent NGL market center near Conway, Kansas, along with extensions into the Piceance and Denver-Julesberg basins in Colorado.  In 2013, a pipeline connection and capacity expansions were installed to accommodate volumes coming from the Bakken Shale in the Williston basin in North Dakota. Our equity NGL volumes from our two Wyoming plants and our Willow Creek facility in Colorado are dedicated for transport onOPPLunder a long-term transportation agreement.

Operating Statistics

The following table summarizes our significant operating statistics for Williams Partners’ midstream business:

201320122011Volumes: (1)Gathering (Tbtu)1,7311,6161,377Plant inlet natural gas (Tbtu)1,5491,6381,592NGL production (Mbbls/d) (2)143209189NGL equity sales (Mbbls/d) (2)407777Crude oil transportation (Mbbls/d) (2)117126105Geismar ethylene sales (millions of pounds)4671,0581,038

__________

(1)Excludes volumes associated with Partially Owned Entities.

(2)Annual average Mbbls/d.



Williams NGL & Petchem Services

The Williams NGL & Petchem Services segment consists primarily of our Canadian midstream business, certain domestic olefins pipeline assets, and the proposed Bluegrass Pipeline, a new joint project which would connect processing facilities in the Marcellus and Utica shale-gas areas in the U.S. Northeast to growing petrochemical and export markets in the U.S. Gulf Coast.














The Fort McMurray extraction plant has processing capacity of 121 MMcf/d with the ability to recover in excess of 26 Mbbls/d of olefin and NGL products. Our Redwater fractionator has a liquids handling capacity of 26 Mbbls/d.  The B/B Splitter, which has a production capacity of 3.7 Mbbls/d of butylene and 3.7 Mbbls/d of butane, further fractionates the butylene/butane mix produced at our Redwater fractionators into separate butylene and butane products, which receive higher values and are in greater demand.  We also purchase small volumes of olefin/NGLs mixes from third-party gas processors, fractionate the olefins and NGLs at our Redwater plant and sell the resulting products. The Boreal Pipeline is a 261-mile pipeline in Canada that transports recovered NGLs and olefins from our extraction plant in Fort McMurray to our Redwater fractionation facility. The pipeline has an initial capacity of 43 Mbbls/d that can be increased to an ultimate capacity of 125 Mbbls/d with additional pump stations.Our products are sold within Canada and the United States.

In the second quarter of 2013, we formed a joint project to develop the Bluegrass Pipeline. We own a 50 percent interest in Bluegrass Pipeline (a consolidated entity). The proposed pipeline would deliver mixed NGLs from these producing areas to proposed new fractionation and storage facilities, which would have connectivity to petrochemical facilities and product pipelines along the coasts of Louisiana and Texas. We are in discussions with potential customers regarding commitments to the pipeline.  Completion of this project is subject to all necessary or required approvals, elections, and actions, as well as execution of formal customer commitments.  We currently estimate the Bluegrass Pipeline will be in-service in mid-to-late 2016.

Operating Statistics

The following table summarizes our significant operating statistics:

201320122011Volumes:Canadian propylene sales (millions of pounds)118153139Canadian NGL sales (millions of gallons)172165163



Access Midstream Partners

Our Access Midstream Partners segment consists of our equity investment in ACMP.  This investment includes an indirect 50 percent interest in Access GP, including IDRs. In addition, we hold approximately 23 percent of ACMP’s outstanding limited partnership units.  ACMP is a publicly traded master limited partnership that provides gathering, treating, and compression services to producers under long-term, fee-based contracts.










The following table summarizes ACMP’s average daily throughput and assets by region as of and for the year ended December 31, 2013:

LocationAverage Throughput (Bcf/d)(1)Approximate Length of Pipeline (Miles)Gas Compression (Horsepower)RegionBarnett ShaleTexas1.045859150,945Eagle Ford ShaleTexas0.26387093,847Haynesville ShaleLouisiana0.66958220,195Marcellus ShalePennsylvania & West Virginia1.019823136,090Niobrara ShaleWyoming0.01513215,665Utica ShaleOhio0.10726563,505Mid-ContinentTexas, Oklahoma, Kansas, & Arkansas0.5812,805108,735Total3.6996,336588,982

__________

(1)Throughput in all regions represents net throughput allocated to ACMP’s Partnership interest.



Additional Business Segment Information

Our ongoing business segments are presented as continuing operations in the accompanying financial statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II.

We perform certain management, legal, financial, tax, consultation, information technology, administrative and other services for our subsidiaries.

Our principal sources of cash are from dividends, distributions and advances from our subsidiaries, investments, payments by subsidiaries for services rendered, and, if needed, external financings, and net proceeds from asset sales. The terms of certain subsidiaries’ borrowing arrangements may limit the transfer of funds to us under certain conditions.

We believe that we have adequate sources and availability of raw materials and commodities for existing and anticipated business needs. Our interstate pipeline systems are all regulated in various ways resulting in the financial return on the investments made in the systems being limited to standards permitted by the regulatory agencies. Each of the pipeline systems has ongoing capital requirements for efficiency and mandatory improvements, with expansion opportunities also necessitating periodic capital outlays.

Revenues by service that exceeded 10 percent of consolidated revenue include:

201320122011(Millions)Service:Regulated natural gas transportation and storage$1,713$1,609$1,569Gathering & processing932844703














REGULATORY MATTERS

Williams Partners

FERC

Williams Partners’ gas pipeline interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, and, as such, its rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, its accounting, and the extension, enlargement or abandonment of its jurisdictional facilities, among other things, are subject to regulation. Each gas pipeline company holds certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the FERC authorizing ownership and operation of all pipelines, facilities and properties for which certificates are required under the NGA. FERC Standards of Conduct govern how our interstate pipelines communicate and do business with gas marketing employees. Among other things, the Standards of Conduct require that interstate pipelines not operate their systems to preferentially benefit gas marketing functions.

FERC regulation requires all terms and conditions of service, including the rates charged, to be filed with and approved by the FERC before any changes can go into effect. Each of our interstate natural gas pipeline companies establishes its rates primarily through the FERC’s ratemaking process. Key determinants in the ratemaking process are:

•Costs of providing service, including depreciation expense;

•Allowed rate of return, including the equity component of the capital structure and related income taxes;

•Contract and volume throughput assumptions.

The allowed rate of return is determined in each rate case. Rate design and the allocation of costs between the reservation and commodity rates also impact profitability. As a result of these proceedings, certain revenues previously collected may be subject to refund.

Williams Partners also owns interests in and operates two offshore transmission pipelines that are regulated by the FERC because they are deemed to transport gas in interstate commerce. Black Marlin Pipeline Company provides transportation service for offshore Texas production in the High Island area and redelivers that gas to intrastate pipeline interconnects near Texas City. Discovery provides transportation service for offshore Louisiana production from the South Timbalier, Grand Isle, Ewing Bank, and Green Canyon (deepwater) areas to an onshore processing facility and downstream interconnect points with major interstate pipelines. In addition, Williams Partners owns a 50 percent interest in, and is the operator of OPPL, which is an interstate natural gas liquids pipeline regulated by the FERC pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Act. OPPL provides transportation service pursuant to tariffs filed with the FERC.

Pipeline Safety

Williams Partners’ gas pipelines are subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, and the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Jobs Creation Act of 2011 (Pipeline Safety Act), which regulates safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas transmission facilities. The United States Department of Transportation (USDOT) administers federal pipeline safety laws.

Federal pipeline safety laws authorize USDOT to establish minimum safety standards for pipeline facilities and persons engaged in the transportation of gas or hazardous liquids by pipeline. These safety standards apply to the design, construction, testing, operation, and maintenance of gas and hazardous liquids pipeline facilities affecting interstate or foreign commerce. USDOT has also established reporting requirements for operators of gas and hazardous liquid pipeline facilities, as well as provisions for establishing the qualification of pipeline personnel and requirements for managing the integrity of gas transmission and distribution lines and certain hazardous liquid pipelines. To ensure compliance with these provisions, USDOT performs pipeline safety inspections and has the authority to initiate enforcement actions.












Federal pipeline safety regulations contain an exemption that applies to gathering lines in certain rural locations. A substantial portion of our gathering lines qualify for that exemption and are currently not regulated under federal law. However, USDOT is completing a congressionally-mandated review of the adequacy of the existing federal and state regulations for gathering lines and has indicated that it may apply additional safety standards to rural gas gathering lines in the future.

States are preempted by federal law from regulating pipeline safety for interstate pipelines but most are certified by USDOT to assume responsibility for enforcing intrastate pipeline safety regulations and inspecting intrastate pipelines. In practice, because states can adopt stricter standards for intrastate pipelines than those imposed by the federal government for interstate lines, they vary considerably in their authority and capacity to address pipeline safety.

On January 3, 2012, the Pipeline Safety Act was enacted. The Pipeline Safety Act requires USDOT to complete a number of reports in preparation for potential rulemakings. The issues addressed in these rulemaking provisions include, but are not limited to, the use of automatic or remotely controlled shut-off valves on new or replaced transmission line facilities, modifying the requirements for pipeline leak detection systems, and expanding the scope of the pipeline integrity management requirements. USDOT is considering these and other provisions in the Pipeline Safety Act and has sought public comment on changes to the standards in its pipeline safety regulations.

Pipeline Integrity Regulations

We have developed an enterprise wide Gas Integrity Management Plan that we believe meets the United States Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) final rule that was issued pursuant to the requirements of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002. The rule requires gas pipeline operators to develop an integrity management program for gas transmission pipelines that could affect high consequence areas in the event of pipeline failure. The integrity management program includes a baseline assessment plan along with periodic reassessments to be completed within required time frames. In meeting the integrity regulations, we have identified high consequence areas and developed baseline assessment plans. We completed the assessments within the required time frames, with one exception which was reported to PHMSA. Ongoing periodic reassessments and initial assessments of any new high consequence areas are expected to be completed within the time frames required by the rule. We estimate that the cost to be incurred in 2014 associated with this program to be approximately $43 million, most of which we expect to be capital expenditures. Management considers the costs associated with compliance with the rule to be prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business and, therefore, recoverable through Northwest Pipeline’s and Transco’s rates.

We developed a Liquid Integrity Management Plan that we believe meets the PHMSA final rule that was issued pursuant to the requirements of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002.  The rule requires liquid pipeline operators to develop an integrity management program for liquid transmission pipelines that could affect high consequence areas (whether onshore or offshore) in the event of pipeline failure.  The integrity management program includes a baseline assessment plan along with periodic reassessments expected to be completed within required time frames.  In meeting the integrity regulations, we utilized government defined high consequence areas and developed baseline assessment plans.  We completed assessments within the required time frames. We estimate that the cost to complete the remediation associated with the 2013 assessments will be approximately $100,000, most of which we expect to be included in 2014 operating expenses.  Ongoing periodic reassessments and initial assessments of any new high consequence areas are expected to be completed within the time frames required by the rule. Management considers the costs associated with compliance with the rule to be prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business.

State Gathering Regulation

Our onshore midstream gathering operations are subject to regulation by states in which we operate. Of the states where our midstream business gathers gas, currently only Texas actively regulates gathering activities. Texas regulates gathering primarily through complaint mechanisms under which the state commission may resolve disputes involving an individual gathering arrangement.












OCSLA

Our offshore midstream gathering is subject to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA). Although offshore gathering facilities are not subject to the NGA, offshore transmission pipelines are subject to the NGA, and in recent years the FERC has taken a broad view of offshore transmission, finding many shallow-water pipelines to be jurisdictional transmission. Most offshore gathering facilities are subject to the OCSLA, which provides in part that outer continental shelf pipelines “must provide open and nondiscriminatory access to both owner and nonowner shippers.”

Olefins

Williams Partners’ olefins assets are regulated by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, the Texas Railroad Commission, and various other state and federal entities regarding our liquids pipelines.

These olefins assets are also subject to the liquid pipeline safety and integrity regulations previously discussed above since both Louisiana and Texas have adopted the integrity management regulations defined by PHMSA.



Williams NGL & Petchem Services



Our Canadian assets are regulated by the Alberta Energy Regulator (“AER”), which includes specifics to pipeline safety and integrity. The regulatory system for the Alberta oil and gas industry incorporates a large measure of self-regulation, providing that licensed operators are held responsible for ensuring that their operations are conducted in accordance with all provincial regulatory requirements. For situations in which noncompliance with the applicable regulations is at issue, the AER has an enforcement process with escalating consequences.

SeeNote 17 – Contingent Liabilities and Commitmentsof our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on our regulatory matters.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Our operations are subject to federal environmental laws and regulations as well as the state, local and tribal laws and regulations adopted by the jurisdictions in which we operate. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, or water, as well as liability for cleanup costs. Materials could be released into the environment in several ways including, but not limited to:

•Leakage from gathering systems, underground gas storage caverns, pipelines, processing or treating facilities, transportation facilities and storage tanks;

•Damage to facilities resulting from accidents during normal operations;

•Damages to onshore and offshore equipment and facilities resulting from storm events or natural disasters;

•Blowouts, cratering and explosions.

In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by former owners or operators of our properties.

We believe compliance with current environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or current competitive position. However, environmental laws and regulations could affect our business in various ways from time to time, including incurring capital and maintenance expenditures, fines and penalties, and creating the need to seek relief from the FERC for rate increases to recover the costs of certain capital expenditures and operation and maintenance expenses.

For additional information regarding the potential impact of federal, state, tribal or local regulatory measures on our business and specific environmental issues, please refer to “Risk Factors —“Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and expenditures and could exceed current expectations,”










and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Environmental” and “Environmental Matters” inNote 17 – Contingent Liabilities and Commitmentsof our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



COMPETITION

Williams Partners

For Williams Partners’ gas pipeline business, the natural gas industry has undergone significant change over the past two decades. A highly-liquid competitive commodity market in natural gas and increasingly competitive markets for natural gas services, including competitive secondary markets in pipeline capacity, have developed. More recently large reserves of shale gas have been discovered, in many cases much closer to major market centers. As a result, pipeline capacity is being used more efficiently and competition among pipeline suppliers to connect growing supply to market has increased.

Local distribution company (LDC) and electric industry restructuring by states have affected pipeline markets. Pipeline operators are increasingly challenged to accommodate the flexibility demanded by customers and allowed under tariffs. The state plans have in some cases discouraged LDCs from signing long-term contracts for new capacity.

States have developed new plans that require utilities to encourage energy saving measures and diversify their energy supplies to include renewable sources. This has lowered the growth of residential gas demand. However, due to relatively low prices of natural gas, demand for electric power generation has increased.

These factors have increased the risk that customers will reduce their contractual commitments for pipeline capacity from traditional producing areas. Future utilization of pipeline capacity will depend on these factors and others impacting both U.S. and global demand for natural gas.

In Williams Partners’ midstream business, we face regional competition with varying competitive factors in each basin. Our gathering and processing business competes with other midstream companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines, producers and independent gatherers and processors. We primarily compete with five to ten companies across all basins in which we provide services. Numerous factors impact any given customer’s choice of a gathering or processing services provider, including rate, location, term, reliability, timeliness of services to be provided, pressure obligations and contract structure. We also compete in recruiting and retaining skilled employees.

Ethylene and propylene markets, and therefore Williams Partners’ olefins business, compete in a worldwide marketplace. Due to our NGL feedstock position at Geismar, we expect to benefit from the lower cost position in North America versus other crude based feedstocks worldwide. The majority of North American olefins producers have significant downstream petrochemical manufacturing for plastics and other products. As such, they buy or sell ethylene and propylene as required. We operate as a merchant seller of olefins with no downstream manufacturing, and therefore can be either a supplier or a competitor at any given time to these other companies. We compete on the basis of service, price and availability of the products we produce.

Williams NGL & Petchem Services

Our Canadian midstream facilities continue to be the only NGL/olefins fractionator in western Canada and the only processor of oil sands upgrader offgas. Our extraction of liquids from the upgrader offgas stream allows the upgraders to burn cleaner natural gas streams and reduce their overall air emissions. Our Canadian midstream business competes for the sale of its products with traditional Canadian midstream companies on the basis of operational expertise, price, service offerings and availability of the products we produce.



For additional information regarding competition for our services or otherwise affecting our business, please refer to “Risk Factors -The long-term financial condition of our natural gas transportation and midstream businesses is dependent on the continued availability of natural gas supplies in the supply basins that we access and demand for those supplies in our traditional markets,“-Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results,” and “-We may not be able to replace, extend, or add










additional customer contracts or contracted volumes on favorable terms, or at all, which could affect our financial condition, the amount of cash available to pay distributions, and our ability to grow.”



EMPLOYEES

At February 1, 2014, we had approximately 4,909 full-time employees.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

SeeNote 18 – Segment Disclosuresof our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for amounts of revenues during the last three fiscal years from external customers attributable to the United States and all foreign countries. Also seeNote 18 – Segment Disclosuresof our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to long-lived assets during the last three fiscal years, located in the United States and all foreign countries.












