Item 1.Business



In this report, Williams (which includes The Williams Companies,
    Inc. and, unless the context otherwise requires, all of our
    subsidiaries) is at times referred to in the first person as
    “we,” “us” or “our.” We also
    sometimes refer to Williams as the “Company.”

WEBSITE
    ACCESS TO REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION



We file our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,proxy statements and other documents electronically with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). You may read
    and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the
    SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
    N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the
    operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.You may also obtain such reports from the SEC’s Internet
    website athttp://www.sec.gov.



Our Internet website ishttp://www.williams.com.We make available free of charge through the Investor tab of
    our Internet website our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Corporate
    Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics for Senior Officers, Board
    committee charters and the Williams Code of Business Conduct are
    also available on our Internet website. We will also provide,
    free of charge, a copy of any of our corporate documents listed
    above upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, One
    Williams Center, Suite 4700, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172.

GENERAL



We are primarily an integrated natural gas company originally
    incorporated under the laws of the state of Nevada in 1949 and
    reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in 1987.
    We were founded in 1908 when two Williams brothers began a
    construction company in Fort Smith, Arkansas. Today, we
    primarily find, produce, gather, process and transport natural
    gas. Our operations are concentrated in the Pacific Northwest,
    Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Eastern Seaboard, and the province
    of Alberta in Canada.



Our principal executive offices are located at One Williams
    Center, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172. Our telephone number is918-573-2000.

CHANGE IN
    STRUCTURE AND DIVIDEND INCREASE



On February 16, 2011, we announced that our Board of
    Directors approved pursuing a plan to separate the company into
    two standalone, publicly traded corporations. The plan calls for
    the separation of our exploration and production business into a
    publicly traded company via an initial public offering of up to
    20 percent of our interest in the third quarter of 2011. We
    intend to complete the offering so that it preserves our ability
    to complete a tax-free spinoff of our remaining ownership in the
    exploration and production business to Williams’
    shareholders in 2012, after which Williams would continue as a
    premier natural gas infrastructure company. We retain the
    discretion to determine whether and when to execute the spinoff.



Additionally, we intend to increase the quarterly dividend paid
    to our shareholders, with an initial increase of 60 percent
    (to $0.20 per share), for the first quarter of 2011 payable in
    June 2011.



Management believes these actions will serve to enhance the
    growth potential and overall valuation of our assets.





FINANCIAL
    INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS



See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 18” for information
    with respect to each segment’s revenues, profits or losses
    and total assets.

BUSINESS
    SEGMENTS



Substantially all our operations are conducted through our
    subsidiaries. To achieve organizational and operating
    efficiencies, our activities in 2010 were primarily operated
    through the following business segments:





•Williams Partners— comprised of our master
    limited partnership Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ), which includes
    gas pipeline and domestic midstream businesses. The gas pipeline
    business includes interstate natural gas pipelines and pipeline
    joint venture investments, and the midstream business provides
    natural gas gathering, treating and processing services; NGL
    production, fractionation, storage, marketing and
    transportation; deepwater production handling and crude oil
    transportation services and is comprised of several wholly owned
    and partially owned subsidiaries and joint venture investments.



•Exploration & Production— produces,
    develops, and manages natural gas and oil primarily located in
    the Rocky Mountain, Northeast and Mid-Continent regions of the
    United States and is comprised of several wholly owned and
    partially owned subsidiaries including Williams Production
    Company, LLC and Williams Production RMT Company, LLC. This
    segment also includes our 69 percent equity interest in
    Apco Oil and Gas International Inc., as well as gas marketing
    services which manage our natural gas commodity risk through
    purchases, sales and other related transactions, under our
    wholly owned subsidiary Williams Gas Marketing, Inc.



•Other— includes other business activities that
    are not operating segments, primarily our Canadian midstream and
    domestic olefins operations and a 25.5 percent interest in
    Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream), as well as
    corporate operations.



This report is organized to reflect this structure.



Due to expected future growth in our Canadian midstream and
    domestic olefins operations, we are considering reporting these
    businesses as a separate segment beginning in the first quarter
    of 2011.



Detailed discussion of each of our business segments follows.

Williams
    Partners



Gas
    Pipeline Business



Williams Partners owns and operates a combined total of
    approximately 13,900 miles of pipelines with a total annual
    throughput of approximately 2,800 TBtu of natural gas andpeak-daydelivery capacity of approximately 13 MMdt of natural gas.
    Our gas pipeline businesses consist primarily of
    Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC (Transco) and
    Northwest Pipeline GP (Northwest Pipeline). Our gas pipeline
    business also holds interests in joint venture interstate and
    intrastate natural gas pipeline systems including a
    24.5 percent interest in Gulfstream. The gas pipeline
    businesses contributed revenues of approximately
    28 percent, 35 percent and 28 percent of Williams
    Partners’ revenues in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.
    During third quarter 2010, Williams Partners L.P. completed a
    merger with Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. (WMZ). All of
    WMZ’s common and subordinated units have been extinguished
    and WMZ is wholly owned by Williams Partners. WMZ has been
    delisted and is no longer publicly traded.



Transco



Transco is an interstate natural gas transportation company that
    owns and operates a 10,000-mile natural gas pipeline system
    extending from Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and the offshore
    Gulf of Mexico through Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North
    Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and New Jersey to the
    New York City metropolitan area. The system serves customers in
    Texas and 11 southeast and Atlantic seaboard states, including
    major metropolitan areas in Georgia, North Carolina,
    Washington, D.C., New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.





Pipeline
    system and customers



At December 31, 2010, Transco’s system had a mainline
    delivery capacity of approximately 4.9 MMdt of natural gas
    per day from its production areas to its primary markets. Using
    its Leidy Line along with market-area storage and transportation
    capacity, Transco can deliver an additional 3.9 MMdt of
    natural gas per day for a system-wide delivery capacity total of
    approximately 8.8 MMdt of natural gas per day.
    Transco’s system includes 45 compressor stations, four
    underground storage fields, and an LNG storage facility.
    Compression facilities at sea level-rated capacity total
    approximately 1.5 million horsepower.



Transco’s major natural gas transportation customers are
    public utilities and municipalities that provide service to
    residential, commercial, industrial and electric generation end
    users. Shippers on Transco’s system include public
    utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct
    industrial users, electrical generators, gas marketers and
    producers. Transco’s firm transportation agreements are
    generally long-term agreements with various expiration dates and
    account for the major portion of Transco’s business.
    Additionally, Transco offers storage services and interruptible
    transportation services under short-term agreements.



Transco has natural gas storage capacity in four underground
    storage fields located on or near its pipeline system or market
    areas and operates two of these storage fields. Transco also has
    storage capacity in an LNG storage facility that it owns and
    operates. The total usable gas storage capacity available to
    Transco and its customers in such underground storage fields and
    LNG storage facility and through storage service contracts is
    approximately 200 billion cubic feet of gas. At
    December 31, 2010, our customers had stored in our
    facilities approximately 154 Bcf of natural gas. In addition,
    wholly owned subsidiaries of Transco operate and hold a
    35 percent ownership interest in Pine Needle LNG Company,
    LLC, a LNG storage facility with 4 billion cubic feet of
    storage capacity. Storage capacity permits Transco’s
    customers to inject gas into storage during the summer and
    off-peak periods for delivery during peak winter demand periods.



Transco
    expansion projects



The pipeline projects listed below were completed during 2010 or
    are future significant pipeline projects for which Transco has
    customer commitments.



Mobile
    Bay South



The Mobile Bay South Expansion Project involved the addition of
    compression at Transco’s Station 85 in Choctaw County,
    Alabama, to allow Transco to provide firm transportation service
    southbound on the Mobile Bay line from Station 85 to various
    delivery points. In May 2009, Transco received approval from the
    Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The capital cost of
    the project was $32 million. The project was placed into
    service in May 2010 and increased capacity by 254 Mdt/d.



Mobile
    Bay South II



The Mobile Bay South II Expansion Project involves the
    addition of compression at Transco’s Station 85 in
    Choctaw County, Alabama, and modifications to existing
    facilities at Transco’s Station 83 in Mobile County,
    Alabama, to allow Transco to provide additional firm
    transportation service southbound on the Mobile Bay line from
    Station 85 to various delivery points. In July 2010 Transco
    received approval from the FERC. The capital cost of the project
    is estimated to be approximately $35 million, and it will
    increase capacity by 380 Mdt/d. Transco plans to place the
    project into service by May 2011.



    North



The 85 North Expansion Project involves an expansion of
    Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system from
    Station 85 in Choctaw County, Alabama, to various delivery
    points as far north as North Carolina. In September 2009,
    Transco received approval from the FERC. The capital cost of the
    project is estimated to be approximately $236 million, and
    it will increase capacity by 309 Mdt/d. The first phase for 90
    Mdt/d, was placed into service in July 2010, and the second
    phase is expected to be placed into service in May 2011.





Mid-South



The Mid-South Expansion Project involves an expansion of
    Transco’s mainline from Station 85 in Choctaw County,
    Alabama, to markets as far downstream as North Carolina. In
    October 2010 Transco filed an application with the FERC. The
    capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately
    $219 million. Transco plans to place the project into
    service in phases in September 2012 and June 2013, and it will
    increase capacity by 225 Mdt/d.



Mid-Atlantic
    Connector Project



The Mid-Atlantic Connector Project involves an expansion of
    Transco’s mainline from an existing interconnection in
    North Carolina to markets as far downstream as Maryland. In
    November 2010 Transco filed an application with the FERC. The
    capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately
    $55 million. Transco plans to place the project into
    service in November 2012, and it will increase capacity by 142
    Mdt/d.



Rockaway
    Delivery Lateral Project



The Rockaway Delivery Lateral Project involves the construction
    of athree-mileoffshore lateral to a distribution system in New York. Transco
    anticipates filing an application with the FERC in the fourth
    quarter of 2011. The capital cost of the project is estimated to
    be approximately $159 million. Transco plans to place the
    project into service as early as November 2013, and its capacity
    will be 647 Mdt/d.



Northeast
    Supply Link Project



The Northeast Supply Link Project involves an expansion of
    Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system from the
    Marcellus Shale production region on the Leidy Line to various
    delivery points in New York and New Jersey. Transco anticipates
    filing an application with the FERC in the fourth quarter of
    2011. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be
    approximately $341 million. Transco plans to place the
    project into service in November 2013, and it will increase
    capacity by 250 Mdt/d.



Northwest
    Pipeline



Northwest Pipeline is an interstate natural gas transportation
    company that owns and operates a natural gas pipeline system
    extending from the San Juan basin in northwestern New
    Mexico and southwestern Colorado through Colorado, Utah,
    Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon and Washington to a point on the Canadian
    border near Sumas, Washington. Northwest Pipeline provides
    services for markets in California, Arizona, New Mexico,
    Colorado, Utah, Nevada, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon and Washington
    directly or indirectly through interconnections with other
    pipelines.



Pipeline
    system and customers



At December 31, 2010, Northwest Pipeline’s system,
    having long-term firm transportation agreements including
    peaking service of approximately 3.8 Bcf of natural gas per
    day, was composed of approximately 3,900 miles of mainline
    and lateral transmission pipelines and 41 transmission
    compressor stations having a combined sea level-rated capacity
    of approximately 477,000 horsepower.



Northwest Pipeline transports and stores natural gas for a broad
    mix of customers, including local natural gas distribution
    companies, municipal utilities, direct industrial users,
    electric power generators and natural gas marketers and
    producers. Northwest Pipeline’s firm transportation and
    storage contracts are generally long-term contracts with various
    expiration dates and account for the major portion of Northwest
    Pipeline’s business. Additionally, Northwest Pipeline
    offers interruptible and short-term firm transportation service.



Northwest Pipeline owns a one-third interest in the Jackson
    Prairie underground storage facility in Washington and contracts
    with a third party for storage service in the Clay basin
    underground field in Utah. Northwest Pipeline also owns and
    operates an LNG storage facility in Washington. These storage
    facilities have an aggregate working gas storage capacity of
    13.2 Bcf of natural gas, which is substantially utilized
    for third-party natural gas, and firm





delivery capability of approximately700 MMcf/denable Northwest Pipeline to provide storage services to its
    customers and to balance daily receipts and deliveries.



Northwest
    Pipeline expansion project



Sundance
    Trail



In November 2009, we received approval from the FERC to
    construct approximately 16 miles of30-inchpipeline between our existing compressor stations in Wyoming as
    well as an upgrade to an existing Vernal, Utah compressor
    station. The total estimated cost of the project is
    approximately $50 million. We placed the project in service
    in November 2010 with an increase in capacity of 150 Mdt/d.



Gulfstream



Gulfstream is a natural gas pipeline system extending from the
    Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in Florida. Williams
    Partners owns, through a subsidiary, a 24.5 percent
    interest in Gulfstream while we own a 25.5 percent interest
    through a subsidiary. Spectra Energy Corporation, through its
    subsidiary, and Spectra Energy Partners, LP, own the additional
    50 percent interest. Williams Partners shares operating
    responsibilities for Gulfstream with Spectra Energy Corporation.



Gulfstream
    expansion projects



The Gulfstream Phase V expansion involves the addition of
    compression to provide 35 Mdt/d of firm capacity by April 2011.
    The estimated capital cost of this expansion is approximately
    $44 million with Williams Partners’ share being
    24.5 percent of such cost.



Midstream
    Business



Williams Partners’ midstream business, one of the
    nation’s largest natural gas gatherers and processors, has
    primary service areas concentrated in major producing basins in
    Colorado, New Mexico, Wyoming, the Gulf of Mexico and
    Pennsylvania. The primary businesses — natural gas
    gathering, treating, and processing; NGL fractionation, storage
    and transportation; and oil transportation — fall
    within the middle of the process of taking raw natural gas and
    crude oil from the producing fields to the consumer.



Key variables for this business will continue to be:



•Retaining and attracting customers by continuing to provide
    reliable services;•Revenue growth associated with additional infrastructure either
    completed or currently under construction;•Disciplined growth in core service areas and new step-out areas;•Prices impacting commodity-based processing activities.



The midstream business revenue contributed approximately
    72 percent, 66 percent and 72 percent of Williams
    Partners’ revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



One of our midstream customers, ONEOK Hydrocarbon LP, accounted
    for 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2010. These
    revenues were generated by our NGL marketing business. There
    were no customers for which our sales exceeded 10 percent of our
    consolidated revenues in 2009 and 2008.



Gathering,
    processing and treating



Williams Partners’ gathering systems receive natural gas
    from producers’ oil and natural gas wells and gather these
    volumes to gas processing, treating or redelivery facilities.
    Typically, natural gas, in its raw form, is not acceptable for
    transportation in major interstate natural gas pipelines or for
    commercial use as a fuel. In addition, natural gas contains
    various amounts of NGLs, which generally have a higher value
    when separated from the natural





gas stream. Processing and treating plants remove water vapor,
    carbon dioxide and other contaminants and extract the NGLs. NGL
    products include:



•Ethane, primarily used in the petrochemical industry as a
    feedstock for ethylene production, one of the basic building
    blocks for plastics;•Propane, used for heating, fuel and as a petrochemical feedstock
    in the production of ethylene and propylene, another building
    block for petrochemical-based products such as carpets, packing
    materials and molded plastic parts;•Normal butane, iso-butane and natural gasoline, primarily used
    by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor gasoline
    or as a petrochemical feedstock.



Although a significant portion of Williams Partners’ gas
    processing services are performed for a volumetric-based fee, a
    portion of our gas processing agreements are commodity-based and
    include two distinct types of commodity exposure. The first type
    includes “keep-whole” processing agreements whereby we
    own the rights to the value from NGLs recovered at our plants
    and we have the obligation to replace the lost heating value
    with natural gas. Under these agreements, we are exposed to the
    spread between NGL prices and natural gas prices. The second
    type consists of“percent-of-liquids”agreements whereby we receive a portion of the extracted liquids
    with no direct exposure to the price of natural gas. Under these
    agreements, we are only exposed to NGL price movements. NGLs we
    retain in connection with both of these types of processing
    agreements are referred to as our equity NGL production.
    Our gathering and processing agreements have terms ranging frommonth-to-monthto the life of the producing lease. Generally, our gathering and
    processing agreements are long-term agreements.



Williams Partners’ gas gathering and processing customers
    are generally natural gas producers who have provedand/orproducing natural gas fields in the areas surrounding its
    infrastructure. During 2010, these operations gathered and
    processed gas for approximately 215 gas gathering and processing
    customers. Williams Partners’ top 6 gathering and
    processing customers, one of which is an affiliate, accounted
    for approximately 50 percent of our gathering and
    processing revenue.



In addition to natural gas assets, Williams Partners owns and
    operates four deepwater crude oil pipelines and owns two
    production platforms serving the deepwater in the Gulf of
    Mexico. The crude oil transportation revenues are typically
    volumetric-based fee arrangements. However, a portion of its
    marketing revenues are recognized from purchase and sale
    arrangements whereby the oil that Williams Partners transports
    is purchased and sold as a function of the same index-based
    price. Williams Partners’ offshore floating production
    platforms provide centralized services to deepwater producers
    such as compression, separation, production handling, water
    removal and pipeline landings. Revenue sources have historically
    included a combination of fixed-fee, volumetric-based fee and
    cost reimbursement arrangements. Fixed fees associated with the
    resident production at our Devils Tower facility are recognized
    on aunits-of-productionbasis.



Geographically, the midstream natural gas assets are positioned
    to maximize commercial and operational synergies with our other
    assets. For example, most of the offshore gathering and
    processing assets attach and process or condition natural gas
    supplies delivered to the Transco pipeline. Also, the gathering
    and processing facilities in the San Juan and Piceance
    basins handle approximately 92 percent of our
    Exploration & Production segment’s equity
    production in these basins. The San Juan basin, southwest
    Wyoming and Willow Creek systems deliver residue gas volumes
    into Northwest Pipeline’s interstate system in addition to
    third-party interstate systems.



Onshore
    region gathering, processing and treating



Williams Partners ownsand/oroperates gas gathering, processing and treating assets within
    the states of Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico and Pennsylvania.



In the Rocky Mountain area, the assets include:



•Approximately 3,500 miles of gathering pipelines with a
    capacity of nearly 1 Bcf/d and over 4,000 receipt points
    serving the Wamsutter and southwest Wyoming areas in Wyoming;







•Opal and Echo Springs processing plants with a combined daily
    inlet capacity of over 2.2 Bcf/d and NGL processing
    capacity of nearly 125 Mbbls/d, including the addition of a
    fourth cryogenic processing train at the Echo Springs plant
    which began processing in the fourth quarter of 2010.



In the Four Corners area, the assets include:



•Approximately 3,800 miles of gathering pipelines with a
    capacity of nearly 2 Bcf/d and approximately 6,500 receipt
    points serving the San Juan basin in New Mexico and
    Colorado;•Ignacio, Kutz and Lybrook processing plants with a combined
    daily inlet capacity of765 MMcf/dand NGL processing capacity of approximately 40 Mbbls/d.
    The Ignacio plant also has the capacity to produce slightly more
    than 1 Mbbls/d of liquefied natural gas (LNG);•Milagro and Esperanza natural gas treating plants, which remove
    carbon dioxide but do not extract NGLs, with a combined daily
    inlet capacity of750 MMcf/d.At our Milagro facility, we also use gas-driven turbines to
    produce approximately 60 mega-watts per day of electricity which
    we primarily sell into the local electrical grid.



In the Piceance basin in Colorado, the assets include:



•The Willow Creek processing plant, a450 MMcf/dcryogenic natural gas processing plant in western
    Colorado’s Piceance basin, designed to recover
    30 Mbbls/d of NGLs. The plant is currently operating at its
    designed inlet capacity. In the current processing arrangement
    with our Exploration & Production segment, Williams
    Partners receives a volumetric-based processing fee and a
    percent of the NGLs extracted.•Approximately 150 miles of gathering pipeline and the
    Parachute Plant Complex along with three other treating
    facilities with a combined processing capacity of
    1.2 Bcf/d, acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010 from
    Exploration & Production.•Parachute Lateral, a38-mile,30-inchdiameter line transporting gas from the Parachute area to the
    Greasewood hub and White River hub in northwest Colorado. The
    Willow Creek plant processes gas flowing through the Parachute
    Lateral.•PGX pipeline delivering NGLs from our Exploration &
    Production segment’s existing Parachute area processing
    plants to a major NGL transportation pipeline system.



In the Appalachian basin in Pennsylvania, the assets include:



•Approximately 75 miles of gathering pipelines and two
    compressor stations in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania in the
    Marcellus Shale, acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010.
    Williams Partners has agreed to a new long-term dedicated
    gathering agreement with the seller for its production in the
    northeast Pennsylvania area of the Marcellus Shale. The acquired
    system will connect into the Transco pipeline with our33-mile,24-inchdiameter Springville gathering pipeline. Construction on the
    Springville pipeline is expected to begin in the first quarter
    of 2011 and be completed during 2011.



Gulf
    region gathering, processing and treating



Williams Partners’ ownsand/oroperates gas gathering and processing assets and crude oil
    pipelines primarily within the onshore and offshore shelf and
    deepwater areas in and around the Gulf Coast states of Texas,
    Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama. This includes:



•Nearly 800 miles of onshore and offshore natural gas
    gathering pipelines with a combined capacity of approximately
    3.7 Bcf/d, including:



•The115-miledeepwater Seahawk gas pipeline in the western Gulf of Mexico,
    flowing into the Markham processing plant and serving the
    Boomvang and Nansen field areas;







•The105-miledeepwater Perdido Norte gas pipeline in the western Gulf of
    Mexico, which began transporting gas in the third quarter of
    2010 from a third-party producers’ floating production
    facility in to the Seahawk gathering system, which flows into
    Williams Partners’ Markham processing plant;•The139-mileCanyon Chief gas pipeline, including the Blind Faith extension
    in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, flowing into the Mobile Bay
    processing plant and serving the Devils Tower, Triton,
    Goldfinger, Bass Lite and Blind Faith fields;



•Mobile Bay and Markham processing plants with a combined daily
    inlet capacity of 1.2 Bcf/d and NGL handling capacity of
    75 Mbbls/d, including the 2010 expansion of the Markham
    plant to accommodate production volumes from the Perdido Norte
    gas pipeline;•Canyon Station production platform, which brings natural gas to
    specifications allowable by major interstate pipelines but does
    not extract NGLs, with a daily inlet capacity of500 MMcf/d;•Four deepwater crude oil pipelines with a combined length of
    nearly 400 miles and capacity of 475 Mbbls/d including:



•BANJO pipeline running parallel to the Seahawk gas pipeline
    delivering production from two producer-owned spar-type floating
    production systems; and delivering production to the
    shallow-water platform at Galveston Area Block A244 (GA-A244)
    and then onshore through the Hoover Offshore Oil Pipeline System
    (HOOPS);•Perdido Norte pipeline running parallel to the Perdido Norte gas
    pipeline which began transporting oil in the third quarter of
    2010 from a third-party producers’ floating production
    facility and then onshore through HOOPS;•Alpine pipeline in the central Gulf of Mexico, serving the
    Gunnison field, and delivering production to GA-A244 and then
    onshore through HOOPS under a joint tariff agreement;•Mountaineer pipeline, including the Blind Faith extension, which
    connects to similar production sources as our Canyon Chief
    pipeline, ultimately delivering production to a terminal in
    Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana;



•Devils Tower production platform located in Mississippi Canyon
    Block 773, approximately 150 miles south-southwest of
    Mobile, Alabama and serving production from the Devils Tower,
    Triton, Goldfinger and Bass Lite fields. Located in
    5,610 feet of water, it is one of the world’s deepest
    dry tree spars. The platform, which is operated by another
    party, is capable of handling210 MMcf/dof natural gas and 60 Mbbls/d of oil.



NGL
    marketing services



In addition to Williams Partners’ gathering and processing
    operations, we market NGL products to a wide range of users in
    the energy and petrochemical industries. The NGL marketing
    business transports and markets equity NGLs from the production
    at its processing plants, and also markets NGLs on behalf of
    third-party NGL producers, including some of its fee-based
    processing customers, and the NGL volumes owned by Discovery
    Producer Services LLC (Discovery). The NGL marketing business
    bears the risk of price changes in these NGL volumes while they
    are being transported to final sales delivery points. In order
    to meet sales contract obligations, Williams Partners may
    purchase products in the spot market for resale. The majority of
    sales are based on supply contracts of one year or less in
    duration.



Other
    Partially Owned Operations



Fractionation
    and Storage



Williams Partners owns interests inand/oroperates NGL fractionation and storage assets. These assets
    include a 50 percent interest in an NGL fractionation
    facility near Conway, Kansas with capacity of slightly more than
    100 Mbbls/d and a 31.45 percent interest in another
    fractionation facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana with a capacity





of 60 Mbbls/d. Williams Partners also fully owns
    approximately 20 million barrels of NGL storage capacity in
    central Kansas near Conway.



Overland
    Pass Pipeline



In September 2010, Williams Partners completed the
    $424 million acquisition of an additional 49 percent
    ownership interest in Overland Pass Pipeline (OPPL), which
    increased our ownership interest to 50 percent. As long as
    we retain a 50 percent ownership interest in OPPL, we have
    the right to become operator. We have notified our partner of
    our intent to operate and are currently working on an early 2011
    transition. OPPL includes a760-mileNGL
    pipeline from Opal, Wyoming, to the Mid-Continent NGL market
    center in Conway, Kansas, along with150-and125-mileextensions into the Piceance and Denver-Joules basins in
    Colorado, respectively. Williams Partners’ equity NGL
    volumes from our two Wyoming plants and our Willow Creek
    facility in Colorado are dedicated for transport on OPPL under a
    long-term shipping agreement.



Discovery



Williams Partners owns a 60 percent equity interest in and
    operates the facilities of Discovery. Discovery’s assets
    include a600 MMcf/dcryogenic natural gas processing plant near Larose, Louisiana, a
    32 Mbbls/d NGL fractionator plant near Paradis, Louisiana
    and an offshore natural gas gathering and transportation system
    in the Gulf of Mexico.



Laurel
    Mountain



Williams Partners owns a 51 percent interest in a joint
    venture, Laurel Mountain Midstream LLC (Laurel Mountain), in the
    Marcellus Shale located in western Pennsylvania. Laurel
    Mountain’s assets, which we operate, include a gathering
    system of approximately 1,000 miles of pipeline with a
    fourth quarter 2010 average throughput of approximately125 MMcf/d.Laurel Mountain has a long-term, dedicated, volumetric-based fee
    agreement, with some exposure to natural gas prices, to gather
    the production of its joint venture partner’s production in
    the northeast Pennsylvania area of the Marcellus Shale.
    Construction began in 2010 on numerous new pipeline segments and
    compressor stations, the largest of which is the Shamrock
    compressor station. The Shamrock compressor station will have an
    initial capacity of60 MMcf/d,expandable to350 MMcf/d,which will likely be the largest central delivery point out of
    the Laurel Mountain system.



Aux
    Sable



Williams Partners also owns a 14.6 percent equity interest
    in Aux Sable Liquid Products and its Channahon, Illinois gas
    processing and NGL fractionation facility near Chicago. The
    facility is capable of processing up to 2.1 Bcf/d of
    natural gas from the Alliance Pipeline system and fractionating
    approximately 92 Mbbls/d of extracted liquids into NGL
    products.



Operating
    statistics



The following table summarizes our significant operating
    statistics for Midstream:



201020092008Volumes:(1)Gathering (Tbtu)(3)1,2621,3701,361Plant inlet natural gas (Tbtu)1,4241,3421,311NGL production (Mbbls/d)(2)174164154NGL equity sales (Mbbls/d)(2)808080Crude oil gathering (Mbbls/d)(2)9410970









(1)Excludes volumes associated with partially owned assets such as
    our Discovery and Laurel Mountain investments that are not
    consolidated for financial reporting purposes.(2)Annual average Mbbls/d.







(3)Amounts have been recast to reflect the November 2010
    acquisition of certain gathering and processing assets in
    Colorado’s Piceance basin from Exploration &
    Production.

Exploration &
    Production





Our strategy is to continue to drill our existing proved
    undeveloped reserves, which comprise approximately
    42 percent of proved reserves, and to drill in areas of
    probable and possible reserves in order to add to our proved
    reserves. Our current proved, probable, and possible reserves
    inventory provides us with strong capital investment
    opportunities for many years into the future.



Oil
    and Gas Reserves



The following table outlines our estimated net proved reserves
    expressed on a gas equivalent basis for the reporting periods
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Proved reserves for 2010
    and 2009 were prepared under rules issued by the SEC on January
    14, 2009. We prepare our own reserves estimates and the majority
    of our December 31, 2010 reserves were audited by
    Netherland, Sewell & Associates (NSAI) or Miller and
    Lents, Ltd (M&L). Proved reserves information is reported
    as gas equivalents, since oil volumes are insignificant in the
    three years shown below. Reserves for 2010 are approximately
    97 percent natural gas. Reserves are more than
    99 percent natural gas for 2009 and 2008. Oil reserves
    increased to approximately 3 percent of total proved
    reserves in 2010 as a result of a fourth quarter acquisition of
    undeveloped acreage and producing properties located in the
    Williston basin.



Summary of oil and gas reserves:



December 31,201020092008(Bcfe)(1)Proved developed reserves2,4982,3872,456Proved undeveloped reserves1,7741,8681,883Total proved reserves4,2724,2554,339









(1)Gas equivalents are calculated using a ratio of 6 mcf of gas to
    1 barrel of oil.







Proved ReservesBasinDecember 31, 2010(Bcfe)Piceance2,927Powder River348San Juan554Fort Worth196Appalachian28Williston136Other83Total4,272





We have not filed on a recurring basis estimates of our total
    proved net oil and gas reserves with any U.S. regulatory
    authority or agency other than with the Department of Energy
    (DOE) and the SEC. The estimates furnished to the DOE have been
    consistent with those furnished to the SEC.



The 2010 year-end proved reserves were derived using the12-monthaverage,first-of-the-monthHenry Hub spot price of $4.38 per MMbtu, adjusted for locational
    price differentials. During 2010, we added 508 Bcfe of net
    additions to our proved reserves through drilling
    1,162 gross wells at a capital cost of approximately
    $988 million.



Reserves
    estimation process



Our reserves are estimated by deterministic methods by an
    appropriate combination of production performance analysis and
    volumetric techniques. The proved reserves for economic
    undrilled locations are estimated by analogy or volumetrically
    from offset developed locations. Reservoir continuity and
    lateral persistence of our tight-sands, shale and CBM reservoirs
    is established by combinations of subsurface analysis, 2D and 3D
    seismic, and pressure data. Understanding reservoir quality may
    be augmented by core samples analysis.



The engineering staff of each basin asset team provides the
    reserves modeling and forecasts for their respective areas.
    Various departments also participate in the preparation of the
    year-end reserves estimate by providing supporting information
    such as pricing, capital costs, expenses, ownership, gas
    gathering and gas quality. The departments and their roles in
    the year-end reserves process are coordinated by our reserves
    analysis department. The reserves analysis department’s
    responsibilities also include performing an internal review of
    reserves data for reasonableness and accuracy, working with the
    third-party consultants and the asset teams to successfully
    complete the third-party reserves audit, finalizing the year-end
    reserves report, and reporting reserves data to accounting.



The preparation of our year-end reserves report is a formal
    process. Early in the year, we begin with a review of the
    existing internal processes and controls to identify where
    improvements can be made from the prior year’s reporting
    cycle. Later in the year, the reserves staffs from the asset
    teams submit their preliminary reserves data to the reserves
    analysis department. After review by the reserves analysis
    department, the data is submitted to our third party engineering
    consultants, NSAI and M&L, to begin their audits. After
    this point, reserves data, analysis and further review are
    conducted and iterated between the asset teams, reserves
    analysis department and our third party engineering consultants.
    In early December, reserves are reviewed with senior management.
    The process concludes when all parties agree upon the reserve
    estimates and audit tolerance is achieved.



The reserves estimates resulting from our process are subjected
    to both internal and external controls to promote transparency
    and accuracy of the year-end reserves estimates. Our internal
    reserves analysis team is independent and does not work within
    an asset team or report directly to anyone on an asset team. The
    reserves analysis department provides detailed independent
    review and extensive documentation of the year-end process. Our
    internal processes and controls, as they relate to the year-end
    reserves, are reviewed and updated. The compensation of our
    reserves analysis team is not linked to reserves additions or
    revisions.







Approximately 93 percent of our total year-end 2010
    domestic proved reserves estimates were audited by NSAI. When
    compared on awell-by-wellbasis, some of our estimates are greater and some are less than
    the estimates of NSAI. However, in the opinion of NSAI, the
    estimates of our proved reserves are in the aggregate reasonable
    and have been prepared in accordance with principles set forth
    in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of
    Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of
    Petroleum Engineers. NSAI is satisfied with our methods and
    procedures in preparing the December 31, 2010 reserves
    estimates and future revenue, and noted nothing of an unusual
    nature that would cause NSAI to take exception with the
    estimates, in the aggregate, as prepared by us. The report of
    NSAI is included in Exhibit 99.1 to thisForm 10-K.



In addition, reserves estimates related to properties associated
    with the former Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust were
    audited by M&L. These properties represent approximately
    1 percent of our total domestic proved reserves estimates.
    The report of M&L is included in Exhibit 99.2 to thisForm 10-K.



The technical person primarily responsible for overseeing
    preparation of the reserves estimates and the third- party
    reserves audit is the Director of Reserves and Production
    Services. The Director’s qualifications include
    28 years of reserves evaluation experience, a B.S. in
    geology from the University of Texas at Austin, an M.S. in
    Physical Sciences from the University of Houston, and membership
    in the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and The
    Society of Petroleum Engineers.



Proved
    undeveloped reserves (PUDs)



The majority of our reserves is concentrated in unconventional
    tight-sands, shale and coal bed gas reservoirs. We use available
    geoscience and engineering data to establish drainage areas and
    reservoir continuity beyond one direct offset from a producing
    well, which provides additional proved undeveloped reserves.
    Inherent in the methodology is a requirement for significant
    well density of economically producing wells to establish
    reasonable certainty. In fields where producing wells are less
    concentrated, only direct offsets from proved producing wells
    were assigned the proved undeveloped reserves classification. No
    new technologies were used to assign proved undeveloped reserves.



At December 31, 2010, our proved undeveloped reserves were
    1,774 Bcfe — a decrease of 94 Bcfe over our
    December 31, 2009 proved undeveloped reserves estimate of
    1,868 Bcfe. During 2010, 280 Bcfe of our
    December 31, 2009 proved undeveloped reserves were
    converted to proved developed reserves. An additional
    129 Bcfe was added due to the development of unproved
    locations. We have reclassified a net 253 Bcfe from proved
    to probable reserves attributable to locations not expected to
    be developed within five years. This amount is predominantly in
    the Piceance basin where the company has a large inventory of
    drilling locations. The downward revision has been offset by the
    addition of 342 Bcfe of new proved undeveloped drilling
    locations.



All proved undeveloped locations are scheduled to be spud within
    the next five years. Our five-year forecast indicates increasing
    capital to allow for the addition of rigs in years2013-2015in
    the Piceance basin. Our undeveloped estimate contains
    91 Bcfe of aging PUDs. The majority of these are scheduled
    to be spud by year-end 2011.



Oil
    and Gas Properties and Production, Production Prices, and
    Production Costs



The following table summarizes our domestic sales volumes for
    the years indicated:



201020092008(Bcfe)Piceance245.9254.6237.7Powder River83.888.983.6San Juan51.553.152.8Fort Worth21.525.216.6Appalachian1.80.1—Williston0.1——Other8.59.69.7Total net production sold413.1431.5400.4







The following table summarizes our domestic price and cost
    information for the years indicated and has been recast for the
    sale of certain of our gathering and processing assets in the
    Piceance basin to Williams Partners in November 2010:



201020092008($/Mcfe)Average production costs excluding production taxes(1)$0.59$0.50$0.56Average sales price(2)$4.42$3.42$6.95Realized gain from hedging$0.81$1.43$0.09Realized Average Price$5.23$4.85$7.04









(1)Includes lease and other operating expense and facility
    operating expense.(2)Not reduced for gathering, processing, and transportation paid
    to affiliates and third parties of $1.02 in 2010, $0.79 in 2009,
    and $0.71 in 2008.



Drilling
    and Exploratory Activities



We focus on lower-risk development drilling. Our development
    drilling success rate was approximately 99 percent in each
    of 2010, 2009, and 2008.



The following table summarizes domestic drilling activity by
    number and type of well for the periods indicated:*



201020092008Gross WellsNet WellsGross WellsNet WellsGross WellsNet WellsPiceance398360349303687624Powder River53124223395702324San Juan431577399537Fort Worth393643415851Appalachian8384n/an/aWilliston——n/an/an/an/aOther1382165424014Productive exploration——3142Nonproductive, including exploration53411—Total1,1626618824881,7871,052









*We use the terms “gross” to refer to all wells or
    acreage in which we have at least a partial working interest and
    “net” to refer to our ownership represented by that
    working interest. All of the wells drilled were natural gas
    wells.



In 2010, there were 5 gross nonproductive development wells
    and 3 net nonproductive development wells. Total gross
    operated wells drilled were 656 in 2010, 472 in 2009, and 1,125
    in 2008.



Present
    Activities



At December 31, 2010, we had 27 gross (16 net) wells
    in the process of being drilled.



Delivery
    Commitments



We hold a long-term obligation to deliver on a firm basis
    200,000 MMBtu/d of gas to a buyer at the White River Hub
    (Greasewood-Meeker, Colorado), which is the major market hub
    exiting the Piceance basin. The Piceance, being our largest
    producing basin, holds ample reserves to fulfill this obligation
    without risk of nonperformance during periods of normal
    infrastructure and market operations. While the daily volume of
    gas





is large and represents a significant percentage of our daily
    production, this transaction does not represent a material
    exposure.



Purchase
    Commitments



In connection with a gathering agreement entered into by
    Williams Partners with a third party in December 2010, we
    concurrently agreed to buy up to 200,000 MMBtu/d of natural
    gas priced at market prices from the same third party. Purchases
    under the12-yearcontract are expected to begin in the third quarter of 2011. We
    expect to sell this natural gas in the open market and may
    utilize available transportation capacity to facilitate the
    sales.



Oil
    and Gas Properties, Wells, Operations, and Acreage



The table below summarizes 2010 productive wells by area:*



Gas WellsGas WellsOil WellsOil Wells(Gross)(Net)(Gross)(Net)Piceance3,9233,587——Powder River6,4042,884——San Juan3,267881——Fort Worth286233——Appalachian146——Williston——1913Other1,340299——Total15,2347,8901913









*We use the term “gross” to refer to all wells or
    acreage in which we have at least a partial working interest and
    “net” to refer to our ownership represented by that
    working interest.



At December 31, 2010, there were 181 gross and
    105 net producing wells with multiple completions.



The following table summarizes our leased acreage as of
    December 31, 2010:



DevelopedUndevelopedTotalGross AcresNet AcresGross AcresNet AcresGross AcresNet AcresPiceance133,428102,835157,017108,165290,445211,000Powder River551,113250,179399,869175,371950,982425,550San Juan237,587119,4222,1001,576239,687120,998Fort Worth28,87621,17312,3068,30941,18229,482Appalachian1,828914108,02398,387109,85199,301Williston16,17813,483229,640190,148245,818203,631Other120,53860,559199,077118,734319,615179,293Total1,089,548568,5651,108,032700,6902,197,5801,269,255





Piceance
    basin



The Piceance basin is located in northwestern Colorado and is
    our largest area of concentrated development. During 2010, we
    operated an average of 11 drilling rigs in the basin. This area
    has 1,567 undrilled proved locations in inventory. During 2010,
    an average of approximately 6.3 million gallons of NGLs
    were recovered each month at plants now owned and operated
    within Williams Partners, which were marketed separately from
    the residue natural gas.



Powder
    River basin



The Powder River basin is located in northeast Wyoming. The
    Powder River basin includes large areas with multiple coal seam
    potential, targeting thick coal bed methane formations at
    shallow depths.





San Juan
    basin



The San Juan basin is located in northwest New Mexico and
    southwest Colorado. We provide a significant amount of equity
    production that is gatheredand/orprocessed by Williams Partners’ facilities in the
    San Juan basin.



Fort Worth
    basin



The Fort Worth basin is located in north central Texas
    where we drill horizontally into the Barnett Shale.



Appalachian
    basin



The Appalachian basin acreage is primarily located in
    northeastern Pennsylvania where we apply horizontal drilling in
    the Marcellus Shale. We have continued to expand our position
    since our entry into the basin in 2009.



Williston
    basin



The Williston basin acreage is located in North Dakota and
    Montana. Our focus in the basin is in North Dakota’s
    Bakken/Three Forks oil play where we have a 89,420 net
    acreage position, of which approximately 85,800 were acquired in
    December 2010 and are on the Fort Berthold Indian
    Reservation.



Other
    properties



Other properties are primarily comprised of interests in the
    Arkoma basin in southeastern Oklahoma. Also included are
    exploration activity and other miscellaneous activity.



Hedging
    Activity



To manage the commodity price risk and volatility of owning
    producing gas properties, we enter into derivative contracts for
    a portion of our expected future production. See further
    discussion inManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Exploration & Production, included in Item 7
    of thisForm 10-K



Acquisitions &
    Divestitures



During the second quarter of 2010, we entered into an agreement
    to acquire additional Appalachian leasehold acreage positions
    and a 5 percent overriding royalty interest associated with
    these acreage positions. These acquisitions nearly double our
    acreage holdings in the Marcellus Shale and closed in July for
    $599 million, including closing adjustments.



During 2010, we also spent a total of $164 million to
    acquire additional unproved leasehold acreage positions in the
    Marcellus Shale.



In October 2010, we exercised our right under the Williams Coal
    Seam Gas Royalty Trust Agreement to acquire the royalty
    interests for $22 million, including closing adjustments
    upon termination of the the Trust. Prior to the purchase, the
    Trust owned net profits interests in certain proved coal seam
    gas properties owned by Williams Production Company, LLC (WPC)
    and located in the San Juan basin.



In November 2010, we sold certain of our gathering and
    processing assets in Colorado’s Piceance basin to Williams
    Partners for $702 million in cash and approximately 1.8
    million common units. The assets include the Parachute Plant
    Complex, three other treating facilities with a combined
    processing capacity of 1.2 Bcf/d, and a gathering system
    with approximately 150 miles of pipeline. There are more
    than 3,300 wells connected to the gathering system, which
    includes pipelines ranging up to30-inchtrunk lines. The transaction also includes alife-of-leasededication from Exploration & Production.



In December 2010, we acquired a company that holds a major
    acreage position (approximately 85,800 net acres and
    includes 19 producing wells) in North Dakota’s Bakken Shale
    oil play (Williston basin) that will diversify our interests
    into light, sweet crude oil production. The purchase price was
    approximately $949 million, including closing adjustments.





Other



Domestic
    olefins



In the Gulf of Mexico region, we own a 5/6 interest in and are
    the operator of an NGL light-feed olefins cracker in Geismar,
    Louisiana, with a total production capacity of 1.35 billion
    pounds of ethylene and 90 million pounds of propylene per
    year. Our feedstocks for the cracker are ethane and propane; as
    a result, we are primarily exposed to the price spread between
    ethane and propane, and ethylene and propylene, respectively.
    Ethane and propane are available for purchase from third parties
    and from affiliates. We own ethane and propane pipeline systems
    in Louisiana that provide feedstock transportation to the
    Geismar plant and other third-party crackers. Additionally, we
    own a refinery grade propylene splitter and associated pipeline
    with a production capacity of approximately 500 million
    pounds per year of propylene. At our propylene splitter, we
    purchase refinery grade propylene and fractionate it into
    polymer grade propylene and propane; as a result we are exposed
    to the price spread between those commodities. As a merchant
    producer of ethylene and propylene, our product sales are to
    customers for use in making plastics and other downstream
    petrochemical products destined for both domestic and export
    markets. Our olefins business also operates an ethylene storage
    hub at Mont Belvieu using leased third-party underground storage
    wells.



We also market olefin and NGL products to a wide range of users
    in the energy and petrochemical industries. In order to meet
    sales contract obligations, we may purchase products for resale.



Canadian
    midstream



Our Canadian operations include an oil sands off-gas processing
    plant located near Ft. McMurray, Alberta, and an olefin
    fractionation facility and a butylene/butane splitter facility,
    both of which are located at Redwater, Alberta, which is near
    Edmonton, Alberta. We operate the Ft. McMurray area
    processing plant, while another party operates the Redwater
    facilities on our behalf. The butylene/butane splitter was
    completed and placed into service in August 2010. Our
    Ft. McMurray area facilities extract liquids from the
    off-gas produced by a third-party oil sands bitumen upgrading
    process. Our arrangement with the third-party upgrader is a
    “keep-whole” type where we remove a mix of NGLs and
    olefins from the off-gas and return the equivalent heating value
    back in the form of natural gas. We fractionate, treat, store,
    terminal and sell the propane, propylene, butane, butylene and
    condensate recovered from this process. Our commodity price
    exposure is the spread between the price for natural gas and the
    NGL and olefin products we produce. We continue to be the only
    NGL/olefins fractionator in western Canada and the onlytreater/processorof oil sands upgrader off-gas. Our extraction of liquids from
    upgrader off-gas streams allows the upgraders to burn cleaner
    natural gas streams and reduces their overall air emissions.



The Ft. McMurray extraction plant has processing capacity of111 MMcf/dwith the ability to recover in excess of 17 Mbbls/d of
    olefin and NGL products. Our Redwater fractionator has a liquids
    handling capacity of18 Mbbls/d.The new butylene/butane splitter, which has a production
    capacity of 3.7 Mbbls/d of butylene and 3.7 Mbbls/d of
    normal butane, further fractionates the butylene/butane mix
    product produced at our Redwater fractionators into separate
    butylene and butane products, which receive higher values and
    are in greater demand. Our products are sold within Canada and
    the United States.



Canadian
    expansion project



Construction began in 2010 on a261-mile,12-inchdiameter Canadian pipeline which will transport recovered NGLs
    and olefins from our processing plant in Ft. McMurray to
    our Redwater fractionation facility. The pipeline will have
    sufficient capacity to transport additional NGLs and olefins
    from our existing operations as well as from other NGLs and
    olefins produced from oil sands off-gas. The project will be
    constructed using cash previously generated from Canadian and
    other international projects. We anticipate an in-service date
    in 2012.



Other



Considering the deteriorating circumstances in Venezuela, in
    2009 we fully impaired our $75 million investment in
    Accroven SRL, a Venezuelan operation, which included two400 MMcf/dNGL extraction plants, a 50 Mbbls/d NGL fractionation plant
    and associated storage and refrigeration facilities. (See
    Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) In
    June of 2010, we sold our 50 percent interest in Accroven
    to the state-owned oil company, Petróleos de Venezuela S.A.
    (PDVSA) for $107 million. Of this amount, $13 million
    was received in cash at closing and another $30 million was
    received in August 2010. The remainder is due in six quarterly





payments beginning October 31, 2010. The first quarterly
    payment of $11 million was received in January 2011 and
    will be recognized as income in 2011. We will continue to
    recognize the resulting gain as cash is received. Accroven was
    not part of our operations that were expropriated by the
    Venezuelan government in May 2009.



Operating
    statistics



The following table summarizes our significant operating
    statistics for Other:



201020092008Volumes:Canadian NGL equity sales (Mbbls/d)887Olefin (ethylene and propylene) sales (millions of pounds)1,5291,7281,605



Additional
    Business Segment Information



Our ongoing business segments are accounted for as continuing
    operations in the accompanying financial statements and notes to
    financial statements included in Part II.



Operations related to certain assets in “Discontinued
    Operations” have been reclassified from their traditional
    business segment to “Discontinued Operations” in the
    accompanying financial statements and notes to financial
    statements included in Part II.



We perform certain management, legal, financial, tax,
    consultation, information technology, administrative and other
    services for our subsidiaries.



Our principal sources of cash are from dividends and advances
    from our subsidiaries, investments, payments by subsidiaries for
    services rendered, interest payments from subsidiaries on cash
    advances and, if needed, external financings, sales of master
    limited partnership units to the public, and net proceeds from
    asset sales. The amount of dividends available to us from
    subsidiaries largely depends upon each subsidiary’s
    earnings and operating capital requirements. The terms of
    certain of our subsidiaries’ borrowing arrangements may
    limit the transfer of funds to us under certain conditions.



We believe that we have adequate sources and availability of raw
    materials and commodities for existing and anticipated business
    needs. In support of our energy commodity activities, primarily
    conducted through gas marketing services which is included
    within our Exploration & Production segment, our
    counterparties require us to provide various forms of credit
    support such as margin, adequate assurance amounts and
    pre-payments for gas supplies. Our pipeline systems are all
    regulated in various ways resulting in the financial return on
    the investments made in the systems being limited to standards
    permitted by the regulatory agencies. Each of the pipeline
    systems has ongoing capital requirements for efficiency and
    mandatory improvements, with expansion opportunities also
    necessitating periodic capital outlays.

REGULATORY
    MATTERS



Williams
    Partners



Gas Pipeline Business.Williams Partners gas
    pipeline’s interstate transmission and storage activities
    are subject to FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938
    (NGA) and under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, and, as
    such, its rates and charges for the transportation of natural
    gas in interstate commerce, its accounting, and the extension,
    enlargement or abandonment of its jurisdictional facilities,
    among other things, are subject to regulation. Each gas pipeline
    company holds certificates of public convenience and necessity
    issued by the FERC authorizing ownership and operation of all
    pipelines, facilities and properties for which certificates are
    required under the NGA. Each gas pipeline company is also
    subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as
    amended, and the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, which
    regulates safety requirements in the design, construction,
    operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas transmission
    facilities. FERC Standards of Conduct govern how our interstate
    pipelines communicate and do business with gas marketing
    employees. Among other things, the Standards of Conduct require
    that interstate pipelines not operate their systems to
    preferentially benefit gas marketing functions.





Each of our interstate natural gas pipeline companies
    establishes its rates primarily through the FERC’s
    ratemaking process. Key determinants in the ratemaking process
    are:



•Costs of providing service, including depreciation expense;•Allowed rate of return, including the equity component of the
    capital structure and related income taxes;•Contract and volume throughput assumptions.



The allowed rate of return is determined in each rate case. Rate
    design and the allocation of costs between the reservation and
    commodity rates also impact profitability. As a result of these
    proceedings, certain revenues previously collected may be
    subject to refund.



Pipeline
    Integrity Regulations





Midstream Business.For Williams
    Partners’ midstream business, onshore gathering is subject
    to regulation by states in which we operate and offshore
    gathering is subject to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act
    (OCSLA). Of the states where the midstream business gathers gas,
    currently only Texas actively regulates gathering activities.
    Texas regulates gathering primarily through complaint mechanisms
    under which the state commission may resolve disputes involving
    an individual gathering arrangement. Although offshore gathering
    facilities are not subject to the NGA, offshore transmission
    pipelines are subject to the NGA, and in recent years the FERC
    has taken a broad view of offshore transmission, finding many
    shallow-water pipelines to be jurisdictional transmission. Most
    offshore gathering facilities are subject to the OCSLA, which
    provides in part that outer continental shelf pipelines
    “must provide open and nondiscriminatory access to both
    owner and nonowner shippers.”



The midstream business also owns interests in and operates two
    offshore transmission pipelines that are regulated by the FERC
    because they are deemed to transport gas in interstate commerce.
    Black Marlin Pipeline Company provides transportation service
    for offshore Texas production in the High Island area and
    redelivers that gas to intrastate pipeline interconnects near
    Texas City. Discovery provides transportation service for
    offshore Louisiana production from the South Timbalier, Grand
    Isle, Ewing Bank and Green Canyon (deepwater) areas to an
    onshore processing facility and downstream interconnect points
    with major interstate pipelines. FERC regulation requires all
    terms and conditions of service, including the rates charged, to
    be filed with and approved by the FERC before any changes can go
    into effect.



The midstream business owns an interest in, and is expected to
    become the operator in 2011, of Overland Pass Pipeline, which is
    an interstate natural gas liquids pipeline regulated by the FERC
    pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Act. Overland Pass provides
    transportation service pursuant to tariffs filed with the FERC.





Exploration &
    Production



Our Exploration & Production business is subject to
    various federal, state and local laws and regulations on
    taxation and payment of royalties, and the development,
    production and marketing of oil and gas, and environmental and
    safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling
    permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production,
    water discharge, prevention of waste and other matters. Such
    laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning,
    designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our
    oil and gas wells and other facilities. In addition, these laws
    and regulations, and any others that are passed by the
    jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the total
    number of wells drilled or the allowable production from
    successful wells, which could limit our reserves.



Our gas marketing business is subject to a variety of laws and
    regulations at the local, state and federal levels, including
    the FERC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
    regulations. In addition, natural gas markets continue to be
    subject to numerous and wide-ranging federal and state
    regulatory proceedings and investigations.



Other



Our Canadian assets are regulated by the Energy Resources
    Conservation Board (ERCB) and Alberta Environment. The
    regulatory system for the Alberta oil and gas industry
    incorporates a large measure of self-regulation, providing that
    licensed operators are held responsible for ensuring that their
    operations are conducted in accordance with all provincial
    regulatory requirements. For situations in which noncompliance
    with the applicable regulations is at issue, the ERCB and
    Alberta Environment have implemented an enforcement process with
    escalating consequences.



See Note 16 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further details on our regulatory matters.

ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS



Our operations are subject to federal environmental laws and
    regulations as well as the state and tribal laws and regulations
    adopted by the jurisdictions in which we operate. We could incur
    liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful
    discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, or water, as well as
    liability for cleanup costs. Materials could be released into
    the environment in several ways including, but not limited to:



•From a well or drilling equipment at a drill site;•Leakage from gathering systems, pipelines, processing or
    treating facilities, transportation facilities and storage tanks;•Damage to oil and gas wells resulting from accidents during
    normal operations;•Blowouts, cratering and explosions.



Because the requirements imposed by environmental laws and
    regulations are frequently changed, we cannot assure you that
    laws and regulations enacted in the future, including changes to
    existing laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our
    business. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage
    caused by former operators of our properties.



We believe compliance with environmental laws and regulations
    will not have a material adverse effect on capital expenditures,
    earnings or competitive position. However, environmental laws
    and regulations could affect our business in various ways from
    time to time, including incurring capital and maintenance
    expenditures, fines and penalties, and creating the need to seek
    relief from the FERC for rate increases to recover the costs of
    certain capital expenditures and operation and maintenance
    expenses.



For a discussion of specific environmental issues, see
    “Environmental” under Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and
    “Environmental Matters” in Note 16 of our Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements.





COMPETITION



Williams
    Partners



For our gas pipeline business, the natural gas industry has
    undergone significant change over the past two decades. A
    highly-liquid competitive commodity market in natural gas and
    increasingly competitive markets for natural gas services,
    including competitive secondary markets in pipeline capacity,
    have developed. As a result, pipeline capacity is being used
    more efficiently, and peaking and storage services are
    increasingly effective substitutes for annual pipeline capacity.



Local distribution company (LDC) and electric industry
    restructuring by states have affected pipeline markets. Pipeline
    operators are increasingly challenged to accommodate the
    flexibility demanded by customers and allowed under tariffs, but
    the changes implemented at the state level have not required
    renegotiation of LDC contracts. The state plans have in some
    cases discouraged LDCs from signing long-term contracts for new
    capacity.



States are in the process of developing new energy plans that
    may require utilities to encourage energy saving measures and
    diversify their energy supplies to include renewable sources.
    This could lower the growth of gas demand.



These factors have increased the risk that customers will reduce
    their contractual commitments for pipeline capacity. Future
    utilization of pipeline capacity will also depend on competition
    from LNG imported into markets and new pipelines from the
    Rockies and other new producing areas.



In our midstream business, we face regional competition with
    varying competitive factors in each basin. Our gathering and
    processing business competes with other midstream companies,
    interstate and intrastate pipelines, producers and independent
    gatherers and processors. We primarily compete with five to ten
    companies across all basins in which we provide services.
    Numerous factors impact any given customer’s choice of a
    gathering or processing services provider, including rate,
    location, term, reliability, timeliness of services to be
    provided, pressure obligations and contract structure. We also
    compete in recruiting and retaining skilled employees. By virtue
    of the master limited partnership structure, WPZ provides us
    with an alternative source of capital, which helps us compete
    against other master limited partnerships for capital projects.



Exploration &
    Production



Our exploration and production business competes with other oil
    and gas concerns, including major and independent oil and gas
    companies in the development, production and marketing of
    natural gas. We compete in areas such as acquisition of oil and
    gas properties and obtaining necessary equipment, supplies and
    services. We also compete in recruiting and retaining skilled
    employees.



In our gas marketing services business, we compete directly with
    large independent energy marketers, marketing affiliates of
    regulated pipelines and utilities, and natural gas producers. We
    also compete with brokerage houses, energy hedge funds and other
    energy-based companies offering similar services.



Other



Ethylene and propylene markets, and therefore our olefins
    business, compete in a worldwide marketplace. Due to our NGL
    feedstock position at Geismar, we will benefit from the lower
    cost position in North America versus other crude-based
    feedstocks worldwide. The majority of North American olefins
    producers have significant downstream petrochemical
    manufacturing for plastics and other products. As such, they buy
    or sell ethylene and propylene as required. We operate as a
    merchant seller of olefins with no downstream manufacturing, and
    therefore can be either a supplier or a competitor at any given
    time to these other companies depending on their market
    balances. Generally, we are viewed primarily as a supplier to
    these companies and not as a direct competitor. We compete on
    the basis of service, price and availability of the products we
    produce.



Our Canadian midstream facilities continue to be the only
    NGL/olefins fractionator in western Canada and the only
    treater/processor of oil sands upgrader off-gas. Our extraction
    of liquids from the upgrader off-gas stream allows the upgraders
    to burn cleaner natural gas streams and reduce their overall air
    emissions. Our Canadian





midstream business competes for the sale of its products with
    traditional Canadian midstream companies on the basis of
    operational expertise, price, service offerings and availability
    of the products we produce.

EMPLOYEES



At February 1, 2011, we had approximately
    5,022 full-time employees. None of our employees are
    represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining
    agreements.

FINANCIAL
    INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS



See Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for amounts of revenues during the last three fiscal
    years from external customers attributable to the United States
    and all foreign countries. Also see Note 18 of our Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to
    long-lived assets during the last three fiscal years, located in
    the United States and all foreign countries.



