Item 1.Business

In this report, Williams (which includes The Williams Companies, Inc. and, unless the context otherwise requires, all of our subsidiaries) is at times referred to in the first person as “we,”
“us” or “our.” We also sometimes refer to Williams as the “Company.”

WEBSITE ACCESS TO REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION

We file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy
statements and other documents electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). You may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. You may also obtain such reports from the SEC’s Internet
website at www.sec.gov.

Our Internet website is www.williams.com.We make available free of charge
through the Investor tab of our Internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics for Senior Officers, Board committee charters and the Williams Code of
Business Conduct are also available on our Internet website. We will also provide, free of charge, a copy of any of our corporate documents listed above upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, One Williams Center, Suite 4700, Tulsa,
Oklahoma 74172.

GENERAL

We are primarily an energy infrastructure company focused on connecting North America’s significant hydrocarbon
resource plays to growing markets for natural gas, NGLs, and olefins. Our operations are located principally in the United States, but span from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico to the Canadian oil sands.

Our interstate gas pipeline, domestic midstream, and domestic olefins production interests are largely held through our
significant investment in Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ), one of the largest energy master limited partnerships. We own the general partner interest and a 68 percent limited-partner interest in WPZ. We also own a Canadian midstream business,
which processes oil sands offgas and produces olefins for petrochemical feedstocks, as well as a significant equity investment in Access Midstream Partners, which owns midstream assets in major unconventional producing areas.

We were founded in 1908, originally incorporated under the laws of the state of Nevada in 1949 and reincorporated under
the laws of the state of Delaware in 1987. Williams’ headquarters are located in Tulsa, Oklahoma, with other major offices in Salt Lake City, Houston, the Four Corners Area and Pennsylvania. Our telephone number is 918-573-2000.

ORGANIZATIONAL RESTRUCTURING

Following the spin-off of WPX Energy, Inc. (WPX) at the end of 2011 and in consideration of our growth plans, we
initiated an organizational restructuring evaluation to better align resources to support an ongoing business strategy to provide large-scale energy infrastructure designed to maximize the opportunities created by the vast supply of natural gas,
natural gas products, and crude oil that exists in North America. As a result of this







evaluation, certain organizational changes were implemented January 1, 2013, that generally organize our businesses in geographically based operating areas and centralize certain operational
support functions. This will have no impact on our segment presentation, including Williams Partners as it continues to be reflective of the parent-level focus by our Chief Operating Decision Maker considering the resource allocation and governance
provisions associated with this master limited partnership (See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Information in this report has generally been prepared to be consistent with the reportable segment presentation in our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this document. Our
reportable segment presentation will not change as a result of the restructuring. These segments are discussed in further detail in the following sections.

DIVIDEND GROWTH

We increased our
quarterly dividends from $0.25 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011 to $0.325 per share in the fourth quarter of 2012. Also, consistent with our expectation of receiving increasing cash distributions from our interest in WPZ and Access Midstream
Partners, we expect to increase our dividend on a quarterly basis. Our Board of Directors has approved a dividend of $0.33875 per share for the first quarter of 2013 and we expect total 2013 dividends to be $1.44 per share, which is approximately 20
percent higher than 2012. We expect 2014 dividends to be $1.75.







FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements — Note 18” for information with respect to each segment’s revenues, profits or losses and total assets.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Substantially
all our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Our activities in 2012 were primarily operated through the following business segments:



•Williams Partners— comprised of our master limited partnership WPZ, which includes gas pipeline and domestic midstream businesses.
The gas pipeline business includes interstate natural gas pipelines and pipeline joint venture investments, and the midstream business provides natural gas gathering, treating and processing services; NGL production, fractionation, storage,
marketing and transportation; deepwater production handling and crude oil transportation services; an olefin production business and is comprised of several wholly owned and partially owned subsidiaries and joint venture investments.



•Williams NGL & Petchem Services (formerly referred to asMidstream Canada & Olefins)— primarily comprised
of our Canadian midstream operations and certain of our recently acquired domestic olefins pipeline assets. Our Canadian operations include an oil sands offgas processing plant located near Fort McMurray, Alberta, and an NGL/olefin fractionation
facility and butylenes/butane splitter (B/B splitter) facility, both of which are located at Redwater, Alberta, which is near Edmonton, Alberta.



•Access Midstream Partners— comprised of an indirect equity interest in Access Midstream Partners GP, L.L.C. (Access GP) and limited
partner interests in Access Midstream Partners, L.P. (ACMP), which we purchased in the fourth quarter of 2012. ACMP is a publicly-traded master limited partnership that provides gathering, processing, treating and compression services to Chesapeake
Energy Corporation and other producers under long-term, fee-based contracts. Access GP is the general partner of ACMP. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)



•Other— primarily comprised of corporate operations.

This report is organized to reflect this structure. Detailed discussion of each of our business segments follows.

Williams Partners

Gas Pipeline Business

Williams Partners owns and
operates a combined total of approximately 13,700 miles of pipelines with a total annual throughput of approximately 3,400 TBtu of natural gas and peak-day delivery capacity of approximately 14 MMdth of natural gas. Our gas pipeline businesses
consist primarily of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC (Transco) and Northwest Pipeline GP (Northwest Pipeline). Our gas pipeline business also holds interests in joint venture interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline systems
including a 50 percent interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas System, LLC (Gulfstream) and a 51 percent interest in Constitution Pipeline Company, LLC (Constitution).

Transco

Transco is an interstate natural gas transmission
company that owns and operates a 9,800-mile natural gas pipeline system extending from Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and the offshore Gulf of Mexico through Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania
and New Jersey to the New York City metropolitan area. The system serves customers in Texas and 12 southeast and Atlantic seaboard states, including major metropolitan areas in Georgia, North Carolina, Washington, D.C., New York, New Jersey and
Pennsylvania.







Pipeline system and customers

At December 31, 2012, Transco’s system had a mainline delivery capacity of approximately 5.8
MMdth of natural gas per day from its production areas to its primary markets, including delivery capacity from the mainline to locations on its Mobile Bay Lateral. Using its Leidy Line along with market-area storage and transportation capacity,
Transco can deliver an additional 4.0 MMdth of natural gas per day for a system-wide delivery capacity total of approximately 9.8 MMdth of natural gas per day. Transco’s system includes 45 compressor stations, four underground storage fields,
and an LNG storage facility. Compression facilities at sea level-rated capacity total approximately 1.5 million horsepower.

Transco’s major natural gas transportation customers are public utilities and municipalities that provide service to residential, commercial, industrial and electric generation end users. Shippers on
Transco’s system include public utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users, electrical generators, gas marketers and producers. Transco’s firm transportation agreements are generally long-term agreements with
various expiration dates and account for the major portion of Transco’s business. Additionally, Transco offers storage services and interruptible transportation services under short-term agreements.

Transco has natural gas storage capacity in four underground storage fields located on or near its
pipeline system or market areas and operates two of these storage fields. Transco also has storage capacity in an LNG storage facility that we own and operate. The total usable gas storage capacity available to Transco and its customers in such
underground storage fields and LNG storage facility and through storage service contracts is approximately 200 Bcf of natural gas. At December 31, 2012, our customers had stored in our facilities approximately 150 Bcf of natural gas. In
addition, wholly owned subsidiaries of Transco operate and hold a 35 percent ownership interest in Pine Needle LNG Company, LLC, an LNG storage facility with 4 Bcf of storage capacity. Storage capacity permits Transco’s customers to inject gas
into storage during the summer and off-peak periods for delivery during peak winter demand periods.

Transco expansion
projects

The pipeline projects listed below were completed during 2012 or are future
significant pipeline projects for which Transco has customer commitments.

Mid-South

The Mid-South Expansion Project involves an expansion of Transco’s mainline from Station 85 in
Choctaw County, Alabama, to markets as far downstream as North Carolina. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $200 million. Transco placed the first phase of the project into service in September 2012, which increased
capacity by 95 Mdth/d. Transco plans to place the second phase into service in June 2013, which is expected to increase capacity by an additional 130 Mdth/d.

Mid-Atlantic Connector

The Mid-Atlantic
Connector Project involves an expansion of Transco’s mainline from an existing interconnection in North Carolina to markets as far downstream as Maryland. The capital cost of the project was approximately $60 million. The project was placed
into service in the first quarter of 2013, increasing capacity by 142 Mdth/d.

Northeast Supply Link

In November 2012, Transco received approval from the FERC to expand its existing natural gas transmission
system from the Marcellus Shale production region on the Leidy Line to various delivery points in New York and New Jersey. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $390 million. Transco plans to place the project into service
in November 2013, and it is expected to increase capacity by 250 Mdth/d.







Rockaway Delivery Lateral

In January 2013, Transco filed an application with the FERC for the construction of a three-mile offshore
lateral to a distribution system in New York. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $180 million. Transco plans to place the project into service during the second half of 2014, with an expected capacity of 647 Mdth/d.

Virginia Southside

In December 2012, Transco filed an application with the FERC to expand Transco’s existing natural gas
transmission system from the Zone 6 Station 210 Pooling Point in New Jersey to Dominion Virginia Power’s proposed power station in Brunswick County, Virginia, and our Cascade Creek interconnect with East Tennessee Natural Gas and our Pleasant
Hill delivery point to Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. in North Carolina. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $300 million. Transco plans to place the project into service in September 2015, and is expected to
increase capacity by 270 Mdth/d.

Leidy Southeast

The Leidy Southeast Project involves an expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas transmission
system from the Marcellus Shale production region in Pennsylvania to a pooling point in Alabama. Transco anticipates filing an application with the FERC in the fourth quarter of 2013. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately
$600 million. Transco plans to place the project into service in December 2015, and it is expected to increase capacity by 469 Mdth/d.

Northwest Pipeline

Northwest Pipeline is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns and operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from the San Juan basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern
Colorado through Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington to a point on the Canadian border near Sumas, Washington. Northwest Pipeline provides services for markets in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Wyoming, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, New
Mexico, California and Arizona directly or indirectly through interconnections with other pipelines.

Pipeline system and customers

At December 31, 2012, Northwest Pipeline’s system, having long-term firm transportation
agreements including peaking service of approximately 3.9 MMdth/d, was composed of approximately 3,900 miles of mainline and lateral transmission pipelines and 41 transmission compressor stations having a combined sea level-rated capacity of
approximately 472,000 horsepower.

Northwest Pipeline transports and stores natural gas for a
broad mix of customers, including local natural gas distribution companies, municipal utilities, direct industrial users, electric power generators and natural gas marketers and producers. Northwest Pipeline’s firm transportation and storage
contracts are generally long-term contracts with various expiration dates and account for the major portion of Northwest Pipeline’s business. Additionally, Northwest Pipeline offers interruptible and short-term firm transportation service.

Northwest Pipeline owns a one-third interest in the Jackson Prairie underground storage
facility in Washington and contracts with a third party for storage service in the Clay basin underground field in Utah. Northwest Pipeline also owns and operates an LNG storage facility in Washington. These storage facilities have an aggregate
working gas storage capacity of 14.2 MMdth of natural gas, which is substantially utilized for third-party natural gas. These natural gas storage facilities enable Northwest Pipeline to balance daily receipts and deliveries and provide storage
services to certain customers.







Northwest Pipeline expansion project

North and South Seattle Lateral Delivery Expansions

Northwest Pipeline has executed agreements with a customer to expand the North and South Seattle laterals
and provide additional lateral capacity of approximately 80 Mdth/d and 74 Mdth/d, respectively. The total estimated cost of the project is between $32 and $36 million. We placed North Seattle into service in November 2012. South Seattle is currently
targeted for service in fall 2013.

Gulfstream

Gulfstream is a natural gas pipeline system extending from the Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in Florida. Williams
Partners owns, through a subsidiary, a 50 percent interest in Gulfstream. Spectra Energy Corporation, through its subsidiary, and Spectra Energy Partners, LP, own the other 50 percent interest. Williams Partners shares operating responsibilities for
Gulfstream with Spectra Energy Corporation and accounts for this using the equity method as described in Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Constitution Pipeline

In April 2012, Williams Partners
began the FERC pre-filing process for a new interstate gas pipeline project. We currently own 51 percent of Constitution Pipeline with two other parties holding 25 percent and 24 percent, respectively. Williams Partners will be the operator of
Constitution Pipeline. The new 120-mile Constitution Pipeline will connect Williams Partners’ gathering system in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, to the Iroquois Gas Transmission and Tennessee Gas Pipeline systems. The total cost of the
entire project is estimated to be $680 million. Williams Partners plans to place the project into service in March 2015, with an expected capacity of 650 thousand dekatherms per day (Mdth/d). The pipeline is fully subscribed with two shippers.
Williams Partners expects to file a FERC application during the second quarter of 2013.

Midstream Business

Williams Partners’ midstream business, one of the nation’s largest natural gas gatherers and processors, has
primary service areas concentrated in major producing basins in Colorado, New Mexico, Wyoming, the Gulf of Mexico, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York, and Ohio. The primary businesses are: (1) natural gas gathering, treating, and
processing; (2) NGL fractionation, storage and transportation; (3) oil transportation; and (4) olefins production. These fall within the middle of the process of taking raw natural gas and crude oil from the producing fields to the
consumer.

Key variables for this business will continue to be:



•Retaining and attracting customers by continuing to provide reliable services;



•Revenue growth associated with additional infrastructure either completed or currently under construction;



•Disciplined growth in core service areas and new step-out areas;



•Producer drilling activities impacting natural gas supplies supporting our gathering and processing volumes;



•Prices impacting commodity-based activities.

Expansion Projects

The midstream projects listed
below were completed during 2012 or are future significant projects.







Northeast

Ohio Valley

In April 2012, WPZ completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the ownership interest in Caiman Eastern
Midstream, LLC (Caiman Acquisition). The acquisition provides us with a significant footprint and growth potential in the natural gas liquids-rich Ohio River Valley area of the Marcellus Shale. Several projects were completed in the fourth quarter
of 2012 increasing our gathering, processing and fractionating capacities. The Fort Beeler plant complex has 320 MMcf/d of cryogenic processing capacity currently available. The Moundsville fractionator is now in service with approximately 13
Mbbls/d of NGL handling capacity. An NGL pipeline, connecting the Fort Beeler plant to the Moundsville fractionator has also been completed and is in service.

We also have expansions currently under construction to our natural gas gathering system, processing
facilities and fractionator in our Ohio Valley Midstream business of the Marcellus Shale including a third turbo-expander at our Fort Beeler facility which is expected to add 200 MMcf/d of processing capacity in the first quarter of 2013. By the end
of 2013, we expect our first turbo-expander at our Oak Grove facility to add 200 MMcf/d of processing capacity and additional fractionation capacity at our Moundsville fractionators bringing the NGL handling capacity to approximately 43 Mbbls/d.

Caiman II

In July 2012, WPZ formed Caiman Energy II, LLC with Caiman Energy, LLC and others to develop large-scale
natural gas gathering and processing and the associated liquids infrastructure serving oil and gas producers in the Utica shale, primarily in Ohio and northwest Pennsylvania. As a result, through our 47.5 percent ownership, WPZ plans to
contribute $380 million through 2014 to fund a portion of Blue Racer Midstream, a joint project formed in December 2012 between Caiman Energy II, LLC and another party.

Susquehanna Supply Hub

In February 2012, WPZ completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the ownership interests in certain
entities from Delphi Midstream Partners, LLC (Laser Acquisition). The gathering system is comprised of 33 miles of 16-inch natural gas pipeline and associated gathering facilities in Susquehanna County, in northeastern Pennsylvania, as well as 10
miles of gathering pipeline in southern New York. The acquisition is supported by existing long-term gathering agreements that provide acreage dedications and volume commitments.

Our Springville pipeline, a 33-mile, 24-inch diameter natural gas gathering pipeline, connecting a portion
of our gathering assets into the Transco pipeline, was placed into service in January 2012, and expansions were completed in the third quarter of 2012 allowing us to deliver approximately 625 MMcf/d into the Transco pipeline. This new take-away
capacity allows full use of approximately 1.6 Bcf/d of capacity from various compression and dehydration expansion projects to our gathering business in northeastern Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale which we acquired at the end of 2010.

As production in the Marcellus increases and expansion projects are completed, the Susquehanna
Supply Hub is expected to reach a natural gas take away capacity of 3 Bcf/d by 2015, including capacity contributions from the Constitution Pipeline.

Laurel Mountain Midstream

In addition, we
plan expansions to our gathering system infrastructure through capital to be invested within our Laurel Mountain equity investment, also in the Marcellus Shale region.







Atlantic-Gulf

Gulfstar FPS™ Deepwater Project

We will design, construct, and install our Gulfstar FPS™, a spar-based floating production system
that utilizes a standard design approach with a capacity of 60 Mbbls/d of oil, up to 200 MMcf/d of natural gas, and the capability to provide seawater injection services. We expect Gulfstar FPS™ to be capable of serving as a central host
facility for other deepwater prospects in the area. Construction is underway and the project is expected to be in service in 2014. In January 2013, WPZ agreed to sell a 49 percent ownership interest in its Gulfstar FPS™ project to a third
party. The transaction is expected to close in second-quarter 2013, at which time we expect the third party will contribute $225 million to fund its proportionate share of the project costs, following with monthly capital contributions to fund its
share of ongoing construction.

Keathley Canyon Connector™

Our equity investee which we operate, Discovery Producer Services LLC (Discovery), plans to construct,
own, and operate a new 215-mile, 20-inch deepwater lateral pipeline from a third-party floating production facility located in the Keathley Canyon production area in the central deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Discovery has signed long-term agreements
with anchor customers for natural gas gathering and processing services for production from the Keathley Canyon and Green Canyon areas. The Keathley Canyon Connector™ lateral will originate from a third-party floating production facility in the
southeast portion of the Keathley Canyon area and will connect to Discovery’s existing 30-inch offshore natural gas transmission system. The lateral pipeline is estimated to have the capacity to flow more than 400 MMcf/d and will accommodate
the tie-in of other deepwater prospects. Pre-construction activities have begun; the pipeline is expected to be laid in 2013 and in service in mid-2014.

West

Parachute

In conjunction with a basin-wide agreement for all gathering and processing services provided by us to WPX
in the Piceance basin, we plan to construct a 350 MMcf/d cryogenic natural gas processing plant. The Parachute TXP I plant is expected to be in service in 2014.

NGL & Petchem Services

Overland Pass Pipeline

Through our equity investment in Overland Pass Pipeline Company LLC, we are participating
in the construction of a pipeline connection and capacity expansions, expected to be complete in early 2013, to increase the pipeline’s capacity to the maximum of 255 Mbbls/d, to accommodate new volumes coming from the Bakken Shale in the
Williston basin.

Geismar

With the benefit of a $350-$400 million expansion under way and scheduled for completion by late 2013, the
facility’s annual ethylene production capacity will grow by 600 million pounds to 1.95 billion pounds. Along with ethane, propane and ethylene, the Geismar facility also produces propylene, butadiene, and debutanized aromatic concentrate
(DAC). The additional capacity will be wholly owned by us and is expected to increase our share of the Geismar production facility to over 88 percent.

In the fourth quarter of 2012, we also completed the construction of a pipeline which is capable of
supplying 12 Mbbls/d of ethane to our Geismar olefins production facility from Discovery’s Paradis fractionator.







Gathering, Processing, and Treating

Williams Partners’ gathering systems receive natural gas from producers’ oil and natural gas wells and gather
these volumes to gas processing, treating or redelivery facilities. Typically, natural gas, in its raw form, is not acceptable for transportation in major interstate natural gas pipelines or for commercial use as a fuel. Williams Partners’
treating facilities remove water vapor, carbon dioxide, and other contaminants and collect condensate, but do not extract NGLs. Williams Partners’ is generally paid a fee based on the volume of natural gas gathered and/or treated, generally
measured in the Btu heating value.

In addition, natural gas contains various amounts of NGLs, which generally
have a higher value when separated from the natural gas stream. Our processing plants extract the NGLs in addition to removing water vapor, carbon dioxide, and other contaminants. NGL products include:



•Ethane, primarily used in the petrochemical industry as a feedstock for ethylene production, one of the basic building blocks for plastics;



•Propane, used for heating, fuel and as a petrochemical feedstock in the production of ethylene and propylene, another building block for
petrochemical-based products such as carpets, packing materials, and molded plastic parts;



•Normal butane, isobutane and natural gasoline, primarily used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor gasoline or as a petrochemical
feedstock.

Our gas processing services generate revenues primarily from the following three
types of contracts:



•Fee-based: We are paid a fee based on the volume of natural gas processed, generally measured in the Btu heating value. Our customers are entitled
to the NGLs produced in connection with this type of processing agreement. Beginning in 2013, a portion of our fee-based processing revenues will include a share of the margins on the NGLs produced. For the year ended December 31, 2012, 63
percent of the NGL production volumes were under fee-based contracts.



•Keep-whole: Under keep-whole contracts, we (1) process natural gas produced by customers, (2) retain some or all of the extracted NGLs as
compensation for our services, (3) replace the Btu content of the retained NGLs that were extracted during processing with natural gas purchases, also known as shrink replacement gas, and (4) deliver an equivalent Btu content of natural
gas for customers at the plant outlet. NGLs we retain in connection with this type of processing agreement are referred to as our equity NGL production. Under these agreements, we have commodity price exposure on the difference between NGL and
natural gas prices. For the year ended December 31, 2012, 34 percent of the NGL production volumes were under keep-whole contracts.



•Percent-of-Liquids: Under percent-of-liquids processing contracts, we (1) process natural gas produced by customers, (2) deliver to
customers an agreed-upon percentage of the extracted NGLs, (3) retain a portion of the extracted NGLs as compensation for our services, and (4) deliver natural gas to customers at the plant outlet. Under this type of contract, we are not
required to replace the Btu content of the retained NGLs that were extracted during processing, and are therefore only exposed to NGL price movements. NGLs we retain in connection with this type of processing agreement are also referred to as our
equity NGL production. For the year ended December 31, 2012, 3 percent of the NGL production volumes were under percent-of-liquids contracts.

Our gathering and processing agreements have terms ranging from month-to-month to the life of the producing lease.
Generally, our gathering and processing agreements are long-term agreements.

Demand for new gas gathering and
processing services is dependent on producers’ drilling activities, which is impacted by the strength of the economy, natural gas prices, and the resulting demand for natural gas by manufacturing and industrial companies and consumers. Williams
Partners’ gas gathering and processing customers are generally natural gas producers who have proved and/or producing natural gas fields in the areas







surrounding its infrastructure. During 2012, Williams Partners’ facilities gathered and processed gas for approximately 220 customers. Williams Partners’ top six gathering and
processing customers accounted for approximately 54 percent of our gathering and processing revenue.

Demand
for our equity NGLs is affected by economic conditions and the resulting demand from industries using these commodities to produce petrochemical-based products such as plastics, carpets, packing materials and blending stocks for motor gasoline and
the demand from consumers using these commodities for heating and fuel. NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene production, which has been shifting away from the more expensive crude-based feedstocks.

Geographically, the midstream natural gas assets are positioned to maximize commercial and operational
synergies with our other assets. For example, most of the offshore gathering and processing assets attach and process or condition natural gas supplies delivered to the Transco pipeline. Our San Juan basin, southwest Wyoming and Piceance
systems are capable of delivering residue gas volumes into Northwest Pipeline’s interstate system in addition to third-party interstate systems. Our gathering system in Pennsylvania delivers residue gas volumes into Transco’s pipeline in
addition to third-party interstate systems.

Williams Partners owns and operates gas gathering, processing and
treating assets within the states of Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. We also own and operate gas gathering and processing assets and pipelines primarily within the onshore, offshore shelf, and deepwater areas in and
around the Gulf Coast states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.

The following table summarizes
our significant operated natural gas gathering assets as of December 31, 2012:



Natural Gas Gathering AssetsLocationPipelineMilesInletCapacity(Bcf/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsWestRocky MountainWyoming3,5871.1100%Wamsutter & SW WyomingFour CornersColorado & New Mexico3,8231.8100%San JuanPiceanceColorado3281.4(2)PiceanceNortheastOhio ValleyWest Virginia1010.8100%AppalachianPennsylvania &New YorkPennsylvania & New York1911.7100%AppalachianLaurel Mountain (1)Pennsylvania2,0130.651%AppalachianAtlantic-GulfCanyon Chief & Blind FaithDeepwater Gulf of Mexico1390.5100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoSeahawkDeepwater Gulf of Mexico1150.4100%Western Gulf of MexicoPerdido NorteDeepwater Gulf of Mexico1050.3100%Western Gulf of MexicoOffshore shelf & otherGulf of Mexico460.2100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoOffshore shelf & otherGulf of Mexico2450.9100%Western Gulf of MexicoDiscovery (1)Gulf of Mexico3580.660%Central Gulf of Mexico



(1)Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the jointly owned investments that we operate, however our financial statements report equity
method income from these investments based on our equity ownership percentage.



(2)We own 60 percent of a gathering system in the Ryan Gulch area, which we operate, with 140 miles of pipeline and 200 MMcf/d of inlet capacity. We
own and operate 100 percent of the balance of the piceance gathering system.







In addition we own and operate several natural gas treating facilities in
New Mexico, Colorado, Texas and Louisiana which bring natural gas to specifications allowable by major interstate pipelines. At our Milagro treating facility, we also use gas-driven turbines to produce approximately 60 mega-watts per day of
electricity which we primarily sell into the local electrical grid.

The following table summarizes our
significant operated natural gas processing facilities as of December 31, 2012:



Natural Gas Processing FacilitiesLocationInletCapacity(Bcf/d)NGLProductionCapacity(Mbbls/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsWestOpalOpal, WY1.570100%SW WyomingEcho SpringsEcho Springs, WY0.758100%WamsutterIgnacioIgnacio, CO0.523100%San JuanKutzBloomfield, NM0.212100%San JuanWillow CreekRio Blanco County, CO0.530100%PiceanceParachuteGarfield County, CO1.47(2)PiceanceNortheastFort BeelerMarshall County, WV0.337100%AppalachianAtlantic-GulfMarkhamMarkham, TX0.545100%Western Gulf of MexicoMobile BayCoden, AL0.730100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoDiscovery (1)Larose, LA0.63260%Central Gulf of Mexico



(1)Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the jointly owned investments that we operate, however our financial statements report equity
method income from these investments based on our equity ownership percentage.

(2)We own 60 percent of the Sagebrush plant, which we operate, with an inlet capacity of 35 MMcf/d and NGL handling capacity of less than 1 Mbbls/d. We
own and operate 100 percent of the balance of the parachute plant complex.

Crude Oil Transportation and Production
Handling Assets

In addition to our natural gas assets, we own and operate four deepwater crude oil
pipelines and own production platforms serving the deepwater in the Gulf of Mexico. Our crude oil transportation revenues are typically volumetric-based fee arrangements. However, a portion of our marketing revenues are recognized from purchase and
sale arrangements whereby the oil that we transport is purchased and sold as a function of the same index-based price. Our offshore floating production platforms provide centralized services to deepwater producers such as compression, separation,
production handling, water removal and pipeline landings. Revenue sources have historically included a combination of fixed-fee, volumetric-based fee and cost reimbursement arrangements. Fixed fees associated with the resident production at our
Devils Tower facility are recognized on a units-of-production basis.

The following table summarizes our
significant crude oil transportation pipelines as of December 31, 2012:



Crude Oil PipelinesPipelineMilesCapacity(Mbbls/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsMountaineer & Blind Faith155150100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoBANJO5790100%Western Gulf of MexicoAlpine9685100%Western Gulf of MexicoPerdido Norte74150100%Western Gulf of Mexico







The following table summarizes our production handling platforms as of
December 31, 2012:



Production Handling PlatformsGas InletCapacity(MMcf/d)Crude/NGLHandlingCapacity(Mbbls/d)OwnershipInterestSupply BasinsDevils Tower21060100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoCanyon Station50016100%Eastern Gulf of MexicoDiscovery Grand Isle 115 (1)1501060%Central Gulf of Mexico



(1)Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the jointly owned investments that we operate, however our financial statements report equity
method income from these investments based on our equity ownership percentage.

Gulf Olefins

In November 2012, we contributed to WPZ an 83.3 percent undivided interest and operatorship of the olefins production
facility in Geismar, Louisiana, along with a refinery grade propylene splitter and pipelines in the Gulf region. Our olefins business also operates an ethylene storage hub at Mont Belvieu using leased third-party underground storage caverns.

Our olefins production facility has a total production capacity of 1.35 billion pounds of ethylene and
90 million pounds of propylene per year. Our feedstocks for the cracker are ethane and propane; as a result, these assets are primarily exposed to the price spread between ethane and propane, and ethylene and propylene, respectively. Ethane and
propane are available for purchase from third parties and from affiliates. We own ethane and propane pipeline systems in Louisiana that provide feedstock transportation to the Geismar plant and other third-party crackers. In the fourth quarter of
2012, we placed a pipeline in service that has the capacity to supply 12 Mbbls/d of ethane from Discovery’s Paradis fractionator to the Geismar plant.

Our refinery grade propylene splitter has a production capacity of approximately 500 million pounds per year of propylene. At our propylene splitter, we purchase refinery grade propylene and
fractionate it into polymer grade propylene and propane; as a result this asset is exposed to the price spread between those commodities.

As a merchant producer of ethylene and propylene, our product sales are to customers for use in making plastics and other downstream petrochemical products destined for both domestic and export markets.

Marketing Services

We market NGL products to a wide range of users in the energy and petrochemical industries. The NGL marketing business transports and markets equity NGLs from the production at our processing plants, and
also markets NGLs on behalf of third-party NGL producers, including some of our fee-based processing customers, and the NGL volumes owned by Discovery. The NGL marketing business bears the risk of price changes in these NGL volumes while they are
being transported to final sales delivery points. In order to meet sales contract obligations, we may purchase products in the spot market for resale. Other than a long-term agreement to sell our equity NGLs transported on Overland Pass Pipeline to
ONEOK Hydrocarbon L.P., the majority of sales are based on supply contracts of one year or less in duration. Sales to ONEOK Hydrocarbon L.P., accounted for 14 percent, 17 percent, and 15 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2012, 2011, and
2010, respectively.

In certain situations to facilitate our gas gathering and processing activities, we buy
natural gas from our producer customers for resale.

We also market olefin products to a wide range of users
in the energy and petrochemical industries. In order to meet sales contract obligations, we may purchase olefin products for resale.







Other NGL & Petchem Operations

We own interests in and/or operate NGL fractionation and storage assets. These assets include a 50 percent interest in an
NGL fractionation facility near Conway, Kansas, with capacity of slightly more than 100 Mbbls/d and a 31.45 percent interest in another fractionation facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, with a capacity of 60 Mbbls/d. We also own approximately
20 million barrels of NGL storage capacity in central Kansas near Conway.

We own approximately 178 miles
of pipelines in the Houston Ship Channel area which transport a variety of products including ethane, propane, ammonia, tertiary butyl alcohol and other industrial products used in the petrochemical industry. We also own a tunnel crossing pipeline
under the Houston Ship Channel which contains multiple pipelines which are leased to third parties.

We also
own a 14.6 percent equity interest in Aux Sable Liquid Products L.P. (Aux Sable) and its Channahon, Illinois, gas processing and NGL fractionation facility near Chicago. The facility is capable of processing up to 2.1 Bcf/d of natural gas from
the Alliance Pipeline system and fractionating approximately 102 Mbbls/d of extracted liquids into NGL products. Additionally, in June 2011, Aux Sable acquired an 80 MMcf/d gas conditioning plant and a 12-inch, 83-mile gas pipeline
infrastructure in North Dakota that provides additional NGLs to Channahon from the Bakken Shale in the Williston basin.

Operated Equity
Investments

Discovery

We own a 60 percent equity interest in and operate the facilities of Discovery. Discovery’s assets include a 600 MMcf/d cryogenic natural gas processing plant near Larose, Louisiana, a
32 Mbbls/d NGL fractionator plant near Paradis, Louisiana, and an offshore natural gas gathering and transportation system in the Gulf of Mexico.

Laurel Mountain

We own a 51 percent interest in a joint
venture, Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC (Laurel Mountain), in the Marcellus Shale located in western Pennsylvania. Laurel Mountain’s assets, which we operate, include a gathering system of approximately 2,000 miles of pipeline with a capacity
of approximately 630 MMcf/d. Laurel Mountain has a long-term, dedicated, volumetric-based fee agreement, with some exposure to natural gas prices, to gather the anchor customer’s production in the western Pennsylvania area of the Marcellus
Shale. Construction is ongoing for numerous new pipeline segments and compressor stations, the largest of which is our Shamrock compressor station.

Overland Pass Pipeline

We operate and own a 50 percent
ownership interest in Overland Pass Pipeline Company LLC (OPPL). OPPL includes a 760-mile NGL pipeline from Opal, Wyoming, to the Mid-Continent NGL market center near Conway, Kansas, along with 150- and 125-mile extensions into the Piceance and
Denver-Julesberg basins in Colorado, respectively. Our equity NGL volumes from our two Wyoming plants and our Willow Creek facility in Colorado are dedicated for transport on OPPL under a long-term transportation agreement. We are constructing a
pipeline connection and capacity expansions expected to be complete in early 2013, to increase the pipeline’s capacity to the maximum of 255 Mbbls/d, to accommodate new volumes coming from the Bakken Shale in the Williston basin.







Operating Statistics

The following table summarizes our significant operating statistics for Williams Partners’ midstream business:



201220112010Volumes: (1)Gathering (Tbtu)1,6161,3771,262Plant inlet natural gas (Tbtu)1,6381,5921,599NGL production (Mbbls/d) (2)206189178NGL equity sales (Mbbls/d) (2)777780Crude oil transportation (Mbbls/d) (2)12610594Geismar ethylene sales (millions of pounds)1,0581,038981



(1)Excludes volumes associated with partially owned assets such as our Discovery and Laurel Mountain investments that are not consolidated for
financial reporting purposes.

(2)Annual average Mbbls/d.

Williams NGL & Petchem Services

The Williams NGL & Petchem Services segment, formerly referred to as Midstream Canada & Olefins, consists
primarily of our Canadian midstream business and certain domestic olefins pipeline assets.

The Fort McMurray extraction plant has processing capacity of 121 MMcf/d with the ability to recover in excess of 17 Mbbls/d of olefin and NGL products. Our Redwater fractionator has a liquids
handling capacity of 18 Mbbls/d. The B/B splitter, which has a production capacity of 3.7 Mbbls/d of butylene and 3.7 Mbbls/d of butane, further fractionates the butylene/butane mix produced at our Redwater fractionators into separate butylene and
butane products, which receive higher values and are in greater demand. We also purchase small volumes of olefin/NGLs mixes from third-party gas processors, fractionate the olefins and NGLs at our Redwater plant and sell the resulting products. The
Boreal Pipeline was completed and placed into service in June 2012. The Boreal Pipeline is a 261-mile pipeline in Canada that transports recovered NGLs and olefins from our extraction plant in Fort McMurray to our Redwater fractionation facility.
The pipeline has an initial capacity of 43 Mbbls/d that can be increased to an ultimate capacity of 125 Mbbls/d with additional pump stations. Our products are sold within Canada and the United States.







Expansion Projects

Construction began in the fourth quarter of 2011 on the ethane recovery project that will allow us to produce
ethane/ethylene mix from our operations that process offgas from the Alberta oil sands. We are modifying our oil sands offgas extraction plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta, and constructing a de-ethanizer at our Redwater fractionation facility. Our
de-ethanizer, which will have a production capacity of 17,000 bbls/d, will enable us to initially produce approximately 10,000 bbls/d of ethane/ethylene mix. We have signed a long-term contract to provide the ethane/ethylene mix to a third-party
customer. We expect the project to be constructed using cash previously generated from Canadian and other international projects and we expect to complete the expansions and begin producing ethane/ethylene mix in mid-year 2013.

During the third quarter of 2012, we signed a long-term agreement to provide gas processing to a second bitumen upgrader
in Canada’s oils sands near Fort McMurray, Alberta. To support the new agreement, we plan to build a new liquids extraction plant, supporting facilities and an extension of the Boreal Pipeline to enable transportation of the NGL/olefins mixture
to our Redwater facility. The NGL/olefins recovered are initially expected to be approximately 12,000 bbls/d by mid-2015, growing to approximately 15,000 bbls/d by 2018. The NGL/olefins mixture will be fractionated at our Redwater facilities into an
ethane/ethylene mix, propane, polymer grade propylene, normal butane, an alkylation feed and condensate. To mitigate the ethane price risk associated with this deal, we have a long-term supply agreement with a third party customer. We expect to fund
construction using cash from Canadian operations as well as international cash on-hand.

During the fourth
quarter of 2012, we acquired 10 liquids pipelines in the Gulf Coast region. The acquired pipelines will be combined with an organic build-out of several projects to expand our petrochemical services in that region. The projects include the
construction and commissioning of pipeline systems capable of transporting various products in the Gulf Coast region. The projects are expected to be placed into service beginning in late 2014.

Operating statistics

The following table summarizes our significant operating statistics:



201220112010Volumes:Canadian propylene sales (millions of pounds)153139127Canadian NGL sales (millions of gallons)165163145

Access Midstream Partners

Our Access Midstream Partners segment consists of our recent investment in Access GP and ACMP. We now own a 50 percent
interest in Access Midstream Ventures, L.L.C., which owns Access GP and its 2 percent general partner interest in ACMP and incentive distribution rights. In addition, we hold approximately 24 percent of ACMP’s outstanding limited partnership
units, for a combined ownership interest of approximately 25 percent of ACMP. Access Midstream Partners provides gathering, treating, and compression services to Chesapeake Energy Corporation and other leading producers under long-term, fee-based
contracts. For the year ended December 31, 2012, ACMP’s assets gathered approximately 2.8 Bcf of natural gas per day. ACMP’s primary gathering systems consist of the following:

Barnett Shale

These assets consist of 25 interconnected
gathering systems and 850 miles of pipeline. Average throughput for the year ended December 31, 2012, was 1.195 Bcf/d.







Eagle Ford Shale

These assets consist of 10 gathering systems and 624 miles of pipeline. Gross throughput for the year ended
December 31, 2012, was just under 0.2 Bcf/d.

Haynesville Shale

The Springridge gathering system consists of 263 miles of pipeline. Average throughput for the year ended
December 31, 2012, was 0.36 Bcf/d.

The Mansfield gathering system consists of 307 miles of pipeline.
Average throughput for the year ended December 31, 2012, was 0.72 Bcf/d.

Marcellus Shale

ACMP operates and owns a 47 percent interest in a gathering system consisting of 10 gathering systems and 549 miles of
pipeline. Average net throughput for the year ended December 31, 2012, was 0.7 Bcf/d. In addition to the partially owned systems, during December 2012, 622 miles of pipeline was acquired with an average throughput of 0.026 Bcf/d.

Niobrara Shale

This gathering system consists of two interconnected gathering systems and 105 miles of pipeline. Average throughput for the year ended December 31, 2012, was 0.013 Bcf/d.

Utica Shale

This gathering system consists of 371 miles of pipeline.

Mid-Continent

This gathering system consists of 2,584 miles of pipeline. Average throughput for the year ended December 31, 2012,
was 0.56 Bcf/d.

Additional Business Segment Information

Our ongoing business segments are accounted for as continuing operations in the accompanying financial statements and
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II.

Operations related to certain assets in
“Discontinued Operations” have been reclassified to “Discontinued Operations” in the accompanying financial statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II.

We perform certain management, legal, financial, tax, consultation, information technology, administrative and other
services for our subsidiaries.

Our principal sources of cash are from dividends, distributions and advances
from our subsidiaries, investments, payments by subsidiaries for services rendered, and, if needed, external financings, and net proceeds from asset sales. The terms of certain subsidiaries’ borrowing arrangements may limit the transfer of
funds to us under certain conditions.

We believe that we have adequate sources and availability of raw
materials and commodities for existing and anticipated business needs. Our interstate pipeline systems are all regulated in various ways resulting in the financial return on the investments made in the systems being limited to standards permitted by
the regulatory agencies. Each of the pipeline systems has ongoing capital requirements for efficiency and mandatory improvements, with expansion opportunities also necessitating periodic capital outlays.







Revenues by service that exceeded 10 percent of consolidated revenue
include:



201220112010Service:(Millions)Regulated natural gas transportation and storage1,6091,5691,506Gathering & processing1,100948840

REGULATORY MATTERS

Williams Partners

FERC

Williams Partners’ gas pipeline interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to
FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, and, as such, its rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, its accounting, and the extension, enlargement or
abandonment of its jurisdictional facilities, among other things, are subject to regulation. Each gas pipeline company holds certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the FERC authorizing ownership and operation of all pipelines,
facilities and properties for which certificates are required under the NGA. FERC Standards of Conduct govern how our interstate pipelines communicate and do business with gas marketing employees. Among other things, the Standards of Conduct require
that interstate pipelines not operate their systems to preferentially benefit gas marketing functions.

FERC
regulation requires all terms and conditions of service, including the rates charged, to be filed with and approved by the FERC before any changes can go into effect. Each of our interstate natural gas pipeline companies establishes its rates
primarily through the FERC’s ratemaking process. Key determinants in the ratemaking process are:



•Costs of providing service, including depreciation expense;



•Allowed rate of return, including the equity component of the capital structure and related income taxes;



•Contract and volume throughput assumptions.

The allowed rate of return is determined in each rate case. Rate design and the allocation of costs between the
reservation and commodity rates also impact profitability. As a result of these proceedings, certain revenues previously collected may be subject to refund.

Williams Partners also owns interests in and operates two offshore transmission pipelines that are regulated by the FERC because they are deemed to transport gas in interstate commerce. Black Marlin
Pipeline Company provides transportation service for offshore Texas production in the High Island area and redelivers that gas to intrastate pipeline interconnects near Texas City. Discovery provides transportation service for offshore Louisiana
production from the South Timbalier, Grand Isle, Ewing Bank and Green Canyon (deepwater) areas to an onshore processing facility and downstream interconnect points with major interstate pipelines. In addition, Williams Partners owns a 50 percent
interest in, and is the operator of OPPL, which is an interstate natural gas liquids pipeline regulated by the FERC pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Act. OPPL provides transportation service pursuant to tariffs filed with the FERC.

Pipeline Safety

Williams Partners’ gas pipeline and midstream pipelines are subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, and the Pipeline Safety,
Regulatory







Certainty, and Jobs Creation Act of 2011 (Pipeline Safety Act), which regulates safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas transmission
facilities. The U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) administers federal pipeline safety laws.

Federal
pipeline safety laws authorize USDOT to establish minimum safety standards for pipeline facilities and persons engaged in the transportation of gas or hazardous liquids by pipeline. These safety standards apply to the design, construction, testing,
operation, and maintenance of gas and hazardous liquids pipeline facilities affecting interstate or foreign commerce. USDOT has also established reporting requirements for operators of gas and hazardous liquid pipeline facilities, as well as
provisions for establishing the qualification of pipeline personnel and requirements for managing the integrity of gas transmission and distribution lines and certain hazardous liquid pipelines. To ensure compliance with these provisions, USDOT
performs pipeline safety inspections and has the authority to initiate enforcement actions.

Federal pipeline
safety regulations contain an exemption that applies to gathering lines in certain rural locations. A substantial portion of our gathering lines qualify for that exemption and are currently not regulated under federal law. However, USDOT is
completing a congressionally-mandated review of the adequacy of the existing federal and state regulations for gathering lines and has indicated that it may apply additional safety standards to rural gas gathering lines in the future.

States are preempted by federal law from regulating pipeline safety for interstate pipelines but most are certified by
USDOT to assume responsibility for enforcing intrastate pipeline safety regulations and inspecting intrastate pipelines. In practice, because states can adopt stricter standards for intrastate pipelines than those imposed by the federal government
for interstate lines, they vary considerably in their authority and capacity to address pipeline safety. Our pipelines are designed, operated, and maintained to keep the facilities in compliance with state pipeline safety requirements.

On January 3, 2012, the Pipeline Safety Act was enacted. The Pipeline Safety Act requires USDOT to complete a number of
reports in preparation for potential rulemakings. The issues addressed in these rulemaking provisions include, but are not limited to, the use of automatic or remotely-controlled shut-off valves on new or replaced transmission line facilities,
modifying the requirements for pipeline leak detection systems, and expanding the scope of the pipeline integrity management requirements. USDOT is considering these and other provisions in the Pipeline Safety Act and has sought public comment on
changes to the standards in its pipeline safety regulations.

Pipeline Integrity Regulations

Transco and Northwest Pipeline have developed an Integrity Management Plan that we believe meets the United States
Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) final rule that was issued pursuant to the requirements of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002. The rule requires gas pipeline operators to develop
an integrity management program for transmission pipelines that could affect high consequence areas in the event of pipeline failure. The Integrity Management Program includes a baseline assessment plan along with periodic reassessments to be
completed within required timeframes. In meeting the integrity regulations, Transco and Northwest Pipeline have identified high consequence areas and developed baseline assessment plans. Transco and Northwest Pipeline completed assessment within
required timeframe, with one exception which was reported to PHMSA. We estimate that the cost to complete the remediation associated with the 2012 assessments will be approximately $20 million, most of which we expect to be 2013 capital
expenditures. Ongoing periodic reassessments and initial assessments of any new high consequence areas will be completed within the timeframes required by the rule. Management considers the costs associated with compliance with the rule to be
prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business and, therefore, recoverable through Transco’s and Northwest Pipeline’s rates.









State Gathering Regulation

Our onshore midstream gathering operations are subject to regulation by states in which we operate. Of the states where
our midstream business gathers gas, currently only Texas actively regulates gathering activities. Texas regulates gathering primarily through complaint mechanisms under which the state commission may resolve disputes involving an individual
gathering arrangement.

OCSLA

Our offshore midstream gathering is subject to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA). Although offshore gathering facilities are not subject to the NGA, offshore transmission pipelines are subject
to the NGA, and in recent years the FERC has taken a broad view of offshore transmission, finding many shallow-water pipelines to be jurisdictional transmission. Most offshore gathering facilities are subject to the OCSLA, which provides in part
that outer continental shelf pipelines “must provide open and nondiscriminatory access to both owner and nonowner shippers.”

Domestic Olefins

Williams Partners domestic olefins assets are regulated by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, the Texas Railroad Commission, and various other state and federal entities regarding our
liquids pipelines.

Williams NGL & Petchem Services

Our Canadian assets are regulated by the Energy Resources Conservation Board (ERCB) and Alberta Environment. The
regulatory system for the Alberta oil and gas industry incorporates a large measure of self-regulation, providing that licensed operators are held responsible for ensuring that their operations are conducted in accordance with all provincial
regulatory requirements. For situations in which noncompliance with the applicable regulations is at issue, the ERCB and Alberta Environment have implemented an enforcement process with escalating consequences.

See Note 17 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on our regulatory matters.







ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Our operations are subject to federal environmental laws and regulations as well as the state, local and tribal laws and
regulations adopted by the jurisdictions in which we operate. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, or water, as well as liability for cleanup costs. Materials could be
released into the environment in several ways including, but not limited to:



•Leakage from gathering systems, underground gas storage caverns, pipelines, processing or treating facilities, transportation facilities and storage
tanks;



•Damage to facilities resulting from accidents during normal operations;



•Damages to onshore and offshore equipment and facilities resulting from storm events or natural disasters;



•Blowouts, cratering and explosions.

In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by former owners or operators of our properties.

We believe compliance with current environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or current competitive position. However, environmental
laws and regulations could affect our business in various ways from time to time, including incurring capital and maintenance expenditures, fines and penalties, and creating the need to seek relief from the FERC for rate increases to recover the
costs of certain capital expenditures and operation and maintenance expenses.

For additional information
regarding the potential impact of federal, state, tribal or local regulatory measures on our business and specific environmental issues, please refer to “Risk Factors —We are subject to risks associated with climate change and the
regulation of greenhouse gas emissions,” — “Our operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and expenditures and
could exceed current expectations,”and —Increased regulation of energy extraction activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which
could decrease the volume of natural gas and other products that we transport, gather, process and treat”and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Environmental” and
“Environmental Matters” in Note 17 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







COMPETITION

Williams Partners

For Williams Partners’ gas pipeline business, the natural gas industry has undergone significant change over the past two decades. A highly-liquid competitive commodity market in natural gas and
increasingly competitive markets for natural gas services, including competitive secondary markets in pipeline capacity, have developed. More recently large reserves of shale gas have been discovered, in many cases much closer to major market
centers. As a result, pipeline capacity is being used more efficiently and competition among pipeline suppliers to attach growing supply to market has increased.

Local distribution company (LDC) and electric industry restructuring by states have affected pipeline markets.
Pipeline operators are increasingly challenged to accommodate the flexibility demanded by customers and allowed under tariffs. The state plans have in some cases discouraged LDCs from signing long-term contracts for new capacity.

States have developed new plans that require utilities to encourage energy saving measures and diversify their energy
supplies to include renewable sources. This has lowered the growth of residential gas demand. However, due to relatively low prices of natural gas, demand for electric power generation has increased.

These factors have increased the risk that customers will reduce their contractual commitments for pipeline capacity from
traditional producing areas. Future utilization of pipeline capacity will depend on these factors and others impacting both U.S. and global demand for natural gas.

In Williams Partners’ midstream business, we face regional competition with varying competitive factors in each
basin. Our gathering and processing business competes with other midstream companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines, producers and independent gatherers and processors. We primarily compete with five to ten companies across all basins in which
we provide services. Numerous factors impact any given customer’s choice of a gathering or processing services provider, including rate, location, term, reliability, timeliness of services to be provided, pressure obligations and contract
structure. We also compete in recruiting and retaining skilled employees.

Ethylene and propylene markets, and
therefore Williams Partners’ olefins business, compete in a worldwide marketplace. Due to our NGL feedstock position at Geismar, we expect to benefit from the lower cost position in North America versus other crude based feedstocks worldwide.
The majority of North American olefins producers have significant downstream petrochemical manufacturing for plastics and other products. As such, they buy or sell ethylene and propylene as required. We operate as a merchant seller of olefins with
no downstream manufacturing, and therefore can be either a supplier or a competitor at any given time to these other companies. Accordingly, we believe that we are often not considered by such companies to be a direct competitor. We compete on the
basis of service, price and availability of the products we produce.

Williams NGL & Petchem Services

Our Canadian midstream facilities continue to be the only NGL/olefins fractionator in western Canada and the only
treater/processor of oil sands upgrader offgas. Our extraction of liquids from the upgrader offgas stream allows the upgraders to burn cleaner natural gas streams and reduce their overall air emissions. Our Canadian midstream business competes for
the sale of its products with traditional Canadian midstream companies on the basis of operational expertise, price, service offerings and availability of the products we produce.

For additional information regarding competition for our services or otherwise affecting our business, please refer to
“Risk Factors —The long-term financial condition of our natural gas transportation and midstreambusinesses is dependent on the continued availability of natural gas supplies in thesupply basins that we
access, demand for those supplies in our traditional markets,and the prices of natural gas,” “—Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and
operating results,” and “—We may not be able to replace, extend, or add additional customer contracts or contracted volumes on favorable terms, if at all, which could affect our financial condition, the amount of cash
available to pay dividends, and our ability to grow.”







EMPLOYEES

At February 1, 2013, we had approximately 4,639 full-time employees.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

See Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for amounts of revenues during the last three fiscal
years from external customers attributable to the United States and all foreign countries. Also see Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to long-lived assets during the last three fiscal years,
located in the United States and all foreign countries.







