Item 1.Business



In this report, Williams (which includes The Williams Companies,
    Inc. and, unless the context otherwise requires, all of our
    subsidiaries) is at times referred to in the first person as
    “we,” “us” or “our.” We also
    sometimes refer to Williams as the “Company.”

WEBSITE
    ACCESS TO REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION



We file our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,proxy statements and other documents electronically with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). You may read
    and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the
    SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
    N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the
    operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.You may also obtain such reports from the SEC’s Internet
    website athttp://www.sec.gov.



Our Internet website ishttp://www.williams.com.We make available free of charge on or through our Internet
    website our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Corporate
    Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics, Board Committee Charters
    and Code of Business Conduct are also available on our Internet
    website. We will also provide, free of charge, a copy of any of
    our corporate documents listed above upon written request to our
    Corporate Secretary, One Williams Center, Suite 4700,
    Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172.

GENERAL



We are a natural gas company originally incorporated under the
    laws of the state of Nevada in 1949 and reincorporated under the
    laws of the state of Delaware in 1987. We were founded in 1908
    when two Williams brothers began a construction company in
    Fort Smith, Arkansas. Today, we primarily find, produce,
    gather, process and transport natural gas. Our operations are
    concentrated in the Pacific Northwest, Rocky Mountains, Gulf
    Coast, Eastern Seaboard, and the province of Alberta in Canada.



Our principal executive offices are located at One Williams
    Center, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172. Our telephone number is918-573-2000.



In 2009, we used Economic Value
    Added®(EVA®)1as the basis for disciplined decision making around the use of
    capital.
    EVA®is a tool that considers both financial earnings and a cost of
    capital in measuring performance. It is based on the idea that
    earning profits from an economic perspective requires that a
    company cover not only all of its operating expenses but also
    all of its capital costs. The two main components of
    EVA®are net operating profit after taxes and a charge for the
    opportunity cost of capital. We derive these amounts by making
    various adjustments to our reported results and financial
    position, and by applying a cost of capital. We look for
    opportunities to improve
    EVA®because we believe there is a strong correlation between
    EVA®improvement and creation of shareholder value.

STRATEGIC
    RESTRUCTURING



On February 17, 2010, we completed a strategic
    restructuring, which involved contributing a substantial
    majority of our domestic midstream and gas pipeline businesses,
    including our limited- and general-partner interests in Williams
    Pipeline Partners L.P. (WMZ), into Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ).
    As consideration for the asset contributions, we received
    proceeds from WPZ’s debt issuance of approximately
    $3.5 billion, less WPZ’s transaction fees and
    expenses, as well as 203 million WPZ Class C units,
    which are identical to common units, except for a prorated
    initial distribution. We also maintained our 2 percent
    general-partner interest. WPZ assumed







1Economic

    Value
    Added®(EVA®)

    is a registered trademark of Stern, Stewart & Co.





approximately $2 billion of existing debt associated with
    the gas pipeline assets. In connection with the restructuring,
    we retired $3 billion of our debt and paid
    $574 million in related premiums. These amounts, as well as
    other transaction costs, were primarily funded with the cash
    consideration received from WPZ. As a result of our
    restructuring, we are better positioned to drive additional
    growth and pursue value-adding growth strategies. Our new
    structure is designed to lower capital costs, enhance reliable
    access to capital markets, and create a greater ability to
    pursue development projects and acquisitions. (See Note 19
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)



In conjunction with the restructuring, WPZ has announced its
    intention to launch an exchange offer for the publicly traded
    common units of WMZ at a future date. WPZ will offer a fixed
    exchange ratio of 0.7584 of its common units for each WMZ common
    unit. The ratio is based on closing prices on the New York Stock
    Exchange on Friday, January 15, 2010, the business day
    before WPZ’s intention to make the exchange offer was
    announced, of $23.35 for WMZ and $30.79 for WPZ. The exact
    timing of the launch will be based upon the filing of necessary
    offering documents with the SEC and upon market conditions. If
    WPZ acquires ownership of more than 75% of WMZ’s
    outstanding common units pursuant to this offer, WPZ will
    consider causing the general partner of WMZ to
    (i) deregister WMZ under the Exchange Act or cause its
    common units to no longer be traded on the New York Stock
    Exchange, if these options are available, (ii) exercise its
    right under the WMZ’s limited partnership agreement to
    purchase all of the remaining common units or
    (iii) exercise any other available options.



Beginning with reporting of first-quarter 2010 results, we will
    change our segment reporting structure to align with the new
    parent-level focus, resource allocation management and related
    governance provisions resulting from the restructuring. Our
    reporting segments will be Williams Partners,
    Exploration & Production, and Other.
    Exploration & Production will include our current Gas
    Marketing Services (Gas Marketing) segment and Other will
    include certain midstream and gas pipeline businesses that were
    not contributed to WPZ, such as our Canadian and olefins
    midstream businesses and the remaining 25.5 percent
    interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream),
    as well as corporate operations.



Information in this report has generally been prepared to be
    consistent with the reportable segment presentation in our
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of this document, which reflects our segment reporting structure
    prior to the restructuring. These segments are discussed in
    further detail in the following sections.

FINANCIAL
    INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS



See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 18” of our Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for information with respect
    to each segment’s revenues, profits or losses and total
    assets.

BUSINESS
    SEGMENTS



Substantially all our operations are conducted through our
    subsidiaries. To achieve organizational and operating
    efficiencies, our activities in 2009 were primarily operated
    through the following business segments:



•Exploration & Production— produces,
    develops and manages natural gas reserves primarily located in
    the Rocky Mountain and Mid-Continent regions of the United
    States and is comprised of several wholly owned and partially
    owned subsidiaries including Williams Production Company, LLC,
    and Williams Production RMT Company (RMT).•Gas Pipeline— includes our interstate natural
    gas pipelines and pipeline joint venture investments organized
    under our wholly owned subsidiary, Williams Gas Pipeline
    Company, LLC (WGP). Gas Pipeline also includes Williams Pipeline
    Partners L.P. (WMZ), our master limited partnership formed in
    2007.•Midstream Gas & Liquids— includes
    our natural gas gathering, treating and processing business and
    is comprised of several wholly owned and partially owned
    subsidiaries including Williams Field Services Group, LLC and
    Williams Natural Gas Liquids, Inc. Midstream Gas & Liquids
    (Midstream) also includes Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ), our
    master limited partnership formed in 2005.







•Gas Marketing Services— manages our natural
    gas commodity risk through purchases, sales and other related
    transactions, under our wholly owned subsidiary Williams Gas
    Marketing, Inc.•Other— primarily consists of corporate
    operations.



This report is organized to reflect this structure.



Detailed discussion of each of our business segments follows.

Exploration &
    Production



Our Exploration & Production segment produces,
    develops, and manages natural gas reserves primarily located in
    the Rocky Mountain (primarily Colorado, New Mexico, and
    Wyoming), Mid-Continent (Oklahoma and Texas), and Appalachian
    regions of the United States. We specialize in natural gas
    production from tight-sands and shale formations and coal bed
    methane reserves in the Piceance, San Juan, Powder River,
    Arkoma, Green River, Fort Worth, and Appalachian basins.
    Over 99 percent of our domestic reserves are natural gas.
    We also have international oil and gas interests, which include
    a 69 percent equity interest in Apco Oil and Gas
    International Inc. (formerly Apco Argentina Inc., NASDAQ listed:
    APAGF), an oil and gas exploration and production company with
    operations in South America. If combined with our domestic
    proved reserves, our international interests would make up
    approximately 4 percent of our total proved reserves.
    Considering this, the reserves information included in this
    section relates only to our domestic activity.



Our goal is to continue to drill our existing proved undeveloped
    reserves, which comprise approximately 44 percent of proved
    reserves, and to drill in areas of probable and possible
    reserves in order to add to our proved reserves. Our current
    proved, probable, and possible reserves inventory provides us
    with strong capital investment opportunities for many years into
    the future.



On January 14, 2009, the SEC issued theFinal Rule for
    Modernization of Oil and Gas Reportingwhich modifies how
    oil and gas companies report reserves estimates. We have adopted
    the revised SEC oil and gas reporting requirements, effective as
    of December 31, 2009, with the following effects:



•Applying the expanded definition of oil and gas reserves used
    for reserves estimation supported by reliable technologies and
    reasonable certainty.•Choosing to disclose two alternative reserves sensitivity
    scenarios.•Revising proved undeveloped reserves estimates based on new
    guidance.•Estimating reserves for SEC disclosure using the12-monthaverage,first-of-the-monthprice instead of asingle-day,period-end price.•Incorporating certain additional disclosures around proved
    undeveloped reserves, internal controls used to ensure
    objectivity of the estimation process, and qualifications of
    those preparingand/orauditing the reserves.



Oil
    and Gas Reserves



Reserves information is reported as gas equivalents, since oil
    volumes are insignificant. Reserves are more than 99 percent
    natural gas for all periods indicated.



Summary of oil and gas reserves:



December 31,200920082007(Bcfe)Proved developed reserves2,3872,4562,252Proved undeveloped reserves1,8681,8831,891Total proved reserves4,2554,3394,143





We have not filed on a recurring basis estimates of our total
    proved net oil and gas reserves with any U.S. regulatory
    authority or agency other than with the Department of Energy
    (DOE) and the SEC. The estimates furnished to the DOE have been
    consistent with those furnished to the SEC.





Proved
    reserves sensitivities price scenarioThe new SEC rules allow for reserves sensitivity analysis using
    alternate price and cost criteria as shown below. The SEC case
    was derived using the12-monthaverage,first-of-the-monthHenry Hub spot price of $3.87 per MMbtu, adjusted for locational
    price differentials. Neither of the sensitivity scenarios was
    audited by a third party. All three cases assume that proved
    undeveloped reserves are drilled within five years. No changes
    were made to capital expenditures or operating costs in the
    sensitivity scenarios.SEC CaseSensitivity 1Sensitivity 2Basin(Bcfe)Piceance3,2073,4303,455San Juan467491505Powder River304349356Mid-Continent210228231Other678385Total4,2554,5814,632Sensitivity 1: Reflects proved reserves estimated by adding
    $1.00 to each of the basin prices from the SEC case.Sensitivity 2: Reflects proved reserves estimated using prices
    from the prior year-end, which were calculated using the
    December 31, 2008, NYMEX Henry Hub posted price of $5.71
    per MMbtu, adjusted for locational price differentials.The chart below shows the year-end 2009 SEC case compared to the
    two alternate price scenarios. Also shown is the impact the new
    SEC reserves rules had on 2009 proved reserves.Proved
    U.S. Reserves Reconciliation4






The new SEC reporting rules require that year-end proved reserve
    volumes are calculated using an average price for the full-year
    2009, rather than the year-end price. This resulted in
    utilization of a basin price approximately 33 percent lower
    than the previous year which resulted in a downward price
    revision of 336 Bcfe.



Under the new rules, reserves generally cannot be classified as
    proved if they have not or will not be developed within five
    years according to planned drilling activity and taking into
    account anticipated proved undeveloped conversion rates for
    wells drilled. This rule change resulted in reclassification of
    496 Bcfe of reserves from proved undeveloped to probable.



Additionally, the new rules now allow adding undeveloped proved
    reserves locations that are more than one offset away from
    currently producing wells where there is reasonable certainty of
    production. This rule change resulted in the addition of
    454 Bcfe of proved reserves.



Also shown on the chart is 570 Bcfe of net
    additions/revisions to our proved reserves through drilling
    882 gross wells in 2009 at a capital cost of approximately
    $878 million.



Reserves
    estimation process



The engineering staff of each basin asset team provides the
    reserves modeling and forecasts for their respective areas.
    Various departments also participate in the preparation of the
    year-end reserves estimate. These departments provide supporting
    information such as pricing, ownership, gas gathering and gas
    quality. The departments and their roles in the year-end
    reserves process are coordinated by our reserves analysis
    department. The reserves analysis department’s
    responsibilities also include: working with the third-party
    consultants and the asset teams to successfully complete the
    third-party reserves audit, performing an internal review of
    reserves data for reasonableness and accuracy, finalizing the
    year-end reserves report, and reporting reserves data to
    accounting.



The preparation of our year-end reserves report is a formal
    process. We begin with a review of the existing process to
    identify where improvements can be made. Our internal processes
    and controls, as they relate to the year-end reserves, are
    reviewed and updated. Each asset teams’ reserves
    engineering and geological technical staffs, the reserves
    analysis team, and the third-party engineering consultants meet
    to begin the year-end process and audit.  The asset teams’
    reserves staff, the reserves analysis team and the third-party
    engineering consultants exchange data and interpretations in
    furtherance of the completion of the year-end reserves
    estimates. The reserves analysis team met twice with the Audit
    Committee of our Board of Directors to report on the progress of
    its analysis of our 2009 reserves, allowing the Audit Committee
    the opportunity to review and comment on management’s
    processes and conclusions.



Approximately 99 percent of our total year-end 2009
    domestic proved reserves estimates were audited by Netherland,
    Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI). When compared on awell-by-wellbasis, some of our estimates are greater and some are less than
    the estimates of NSAI. However, in the opinion of NSAI, the
    estimates of our proved reserves are in the aggregate reasonable
    and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted
    petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. These
    principles are set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the
    Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information
    promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. NSAI is
    satisfied with our methods and procedures in preparing the
    December 31, 2009, reserves estimates and noted nothing of
    an unusual nature that would cause NSAI to take exception with
    the estimates, in the aggregate, as prepared by us. The report
    of NSAI is included as Exhibit 99.1 to thisForm 10-K.



In addition, reserves estimates related to properties underlying
    the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust, of which our ownership
    in the Trust represents approximately 1 percent of our
    total domestic proved reserves estimates, were prepared by
    Miller and Lents, LTD. The report of Miller and Lents is
    included as Exhibit 99.2 to thisForm 10-K.



The reserves estimates resulting from the above process are
    subjected to both internal and external checks and controls to
    promote transparency and accuracy of the year-end reserves
    estimates. Our internal control documentation provides further
    confirmation on the checks and controls. Our internal reserves
    analysis team is independent and does not work within an asset
    team or report directly to anyone on the asset teams. The
    compensation of our reserves analysis team is not linked to
    reserves additions or revisions.





The technical person primarily responsible for overseeing
    preparation of the reserves estimates and the third- party
    reserves audit is the Director of Reserves and Production
    Services. The Director’s qualifications include
    27 years of reserves evaluation experience, a B.S. in
    geology from the University of Texas at Austin, an M.S. in
    physical sciences from the University of Houston, and membership
    in the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, and The
    Society of Petroleum Engineers.



Proved
    undeveloped reserves



Our proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2009,
    are 1,868 Bcfe and 1,883 Bcfe as of December 31,
    2008, a net decrease of approximately 15 Bcfe. See
    additional discussion of proved undeveloped reserves in our
    sensitivity analysis.



The vast majority of our reserves is concentrated in
    unconventional tight gas sands, shale gas and coal bed gas
    reservoirs. We use available geoscience and engineering data to
    establish drainage areas and continuity of reservoir beyond one
    direct offset from a producing well, which provides additional
    proved undeveloped bookings in fields where the evidence
    supported the methodology. Inherent in the methodology was a
    requirement for significant well density of economically
    producing wells to establish those bookings with reasonable
    certainty. In fields where producing wells were less dense, only
    direct offsets from proved producing wells were assigned the
    proved undeveloped reserves classification.



Oil
    and Gas Properties and Production, Production Prices and
    Production Costs



The following table summarizes our domestic sales and cost
    information for the years indicated:



200920082007(Bcfe)(1)Piceance254.6237.7196.9San Juan53.152.853.4Powder River88.983.661.9Mid-Continent29.621.716.9Other5.34.64.0Total net production sold431.5400.4333.1Average production costs excluding production taxes ($/Mcfe)(2)$0.60$0.66$0.62Average sales price ($/Mcfe)$2.79$6.39$4.92Realized gain on hedging contracts ($/Mcfe)$1.43$0.09$0.16Net Realized Average Price ($/Mcfe)$4.22$6.48$5.08









(1)Sales and cost information are reported in gas equivalents
    instead of oil equivalents since oil volumes are insignificant.
    Production is over 99 percent natural gas for all three
    years indicated.(2)Includes lease and other operating expense and facility
    operating expense.



Drilling
    and Exploratory Activities



We focus on lower-risk development drilling. Our development
    drilling success rate was approximately 99 percent in each
    of 2009, 2008, and 2007.





The following table summarizes domestic drilling activity by
    number and type of well for the periods indicated:*



200920082007Gross WellsNet WellsGross WellsNet WellsGross WellsNet WellsPiceance349303687624572539San Juan7739953714650Powder River23395702324633255Mid-Continent434182627548Other173821631513Productive exploration314243Nonproductive, including exploration411095Total8824881,7871,0521,590903









*We use the terms “gross” to refer to all wells or
    acreage in which we have at least a partial working interest and
    “net” to refer to our ownership represented by that
    working interest. All of the wells drilled were natural gas
    wells.



In 2009, there were two gross nonproductive exploratory wells
    and one net nonproductive exploratory well. Total gross operated
    wells drilled were 472 in 2009, 1,125 in 2008, and 1,112 in 2007.



Present
    Activities



At December 31, 2009, we had 42 gross (14 net) wells
    in the process of being drilled.



Delivery
    Commitments



We hold a long-term obligation, through our Gas Marketing
    segment, to deliver on a firm basis 200,000 MMBtu/d of gas
    to a buyer at the White River Hub (Greasewood-Meeker, Colorado),
    which is the major market hub exiting the Piceance basin. The
    Piceance, being our largest producing basin, holds ample
    reserves to fulfill this obligation without risk of
    nonperformance during periods of normal infrastructure and
    market operations. While the daily volume of gas is large and
    represents a significant percentage of our daily production,
    this transaction does not represent a material exposure.



Oil
    and Gas Properties, Wells, Operations, and Acreage



The table below summarizes 2009 producing wells and production
    by area:*



WellsWellsNetProducingProducingProduction(Gross)(Net)(Bcfe)Piceance3,4963,202257San Juan3,22087155Powder River6,0252,72288Mid-Continent67145129Other737276Total14,1497,273435









*We use the terms “gross” to refer to all wells or
    acreage in which we have at least a partial working interest and
    “net” to refer to our ownership represented by that
    working interest. All of the wells drilled were natural gas
    wells. Volumes are reported in gas equivalents since any liquids
    produced are a by-product of the natural gas wells.







At December 31, 2009, there were 181 gross and
    106 net producing wells with multiple completions.



The following table summarizes our leased acreage as of
    December 31, 2009:



DevelopedUndevelopedTotalGross AcresNet AcresGross AcresNet AcresGross AcresNet AcresPiceance129,06399,965180,744119,798309,808219,763San Juan237,587119,3452,1001,576239,688120,921Powder River502,455228,582421,378195,422923,833424,004Mid-Continent117,31475,940147,40375,481264,716151,421Other30,0295,111549,591309,242579,619314,353Total1,016,448528,9431,301,216701,5192,317,6641,230,462





Piceance
    basin



The Piceance basin is located in northwestern Colorado and is
    our largest area of concentrated development. During 2009 we
    operated an average of 10.3 drilling rigs in the basin. This
    area has approximately 1972 undrilled proved locations in
    inventory. Within this basin we own and operate natural gas
    gathering facilities including some 300 miles of gathering
    lines and associated field compression. Approximately
    85 percent of the gas gathered is our own equity
    production. The gathering system also includes 5 processing
    plants and associated treating facilities for a total capacity
    of 1.15 Bcf/d. During 2009, these plants recovered
    approximately 6.3 million gallons of natural gas liquids
    (NGLs) each month, which were marketed separately from the
    residue natural gas.



In addition to our own operated facilities, Midstream owns and
    operates a new cryogenic processing plant, Willow Creek, which
    currently has a capacity of450 MMcf/dand reprocesses that amount of gas, recovering an average of
    12.6 million additional gallons of NGLs per month, which
    were marketed separately from the residue natural gas.



San Juan
    basin



The San Juan basin is located in northwest New Mexico and
    southwest Colorado. We provide a significant amount of equity
    production that is gatheredand/orprocessed by Midstream’s facilities in the San Juan
    basin.



Powder
    River basin



The Powder River basin is located in northeast Wyoming. The
    Powder River basin includes large areas with multiple coal seam
    potential, targeting thick coal bed methane formations at
    shallow depths. We have a significant inventory of undrilled
    locations, providing long-term drilling opportunities.



Mid-Continent
    properties



The Mid-Continent properties are located in the southeastern
    Oklahoma portion of the Arkoma basin and the Barnett Shale in
    the Fort Worth basin of Texas.



Other
    properties



Other properties are primarily comprised of interests in the
    Green River basin in southwestern Wyoming and the Appalachian
    basin (Marcellus Shale) in Pennsylvania. Also included is
    exploration activity and other miscellaneous activity.



Hedging
    Activity



To manage the commodity price risk and volatility of owning
    producing gas properties, we enter into derivative contracts for
    a portion of our expected future production. See further
    discussion inManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Exploration & Production, included in Item 7
    of thisForm 10-K.





Acquisitions &
    Divestitures



In June 2009, we entered into an agreement that allows us to
    acquire, through a “drill to earn” structure, a
    50 percent interest in approximately 44,000 net acres
    in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale in the Appalachian basin.
    This agreement requires us to fund $33 million of drilling
    and completion costs on behalf of our partner and
    $41 million of our own costs and expenses prior to the end
    of 2011 to earn our 50 percent interest. This growth
    opportunity leverages our experience in developing
    nonconventional natural gas reserves. Through December 2009, we
    have funded $14 million of the $33 million.



In September 2009, we completed the purchase of additional
    unproved leasehold acreage and proved properties in the Piceance
    basin for $253 million. In December 2009, we increased our
    working interest in these properties through a $22 million
    acquisition.



Through other transactions totaling approximately
    $36 million, Exploration & Production expanded
    its acreage position and producing properties in the
    Fort Worth basin (Barnett Shale), the Appalachian basin
    (Marcellus Shale), the Arkoma basin (Woodford Shale), as well as
    exploration leaseholds in the Paradox basin.



Other
    Information



In 1993, Exploration & Production conveyed a net
    profits interest in certain of its properties to the Williams
    Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust (“Trust”). Substantially
    all of the production attributable to the properties conveyed to
    the Trust was from the Fruitland coal formation and constituted
    coal seam gas. We subsequently sold Trust units to the public in
    an underwritten public offering and retained 3,568,791 Trust
    units then representing 36.8 percent of outstanding Trust
    units. We have previously sold Trust units on the open market,
    with our last sales in June 2005. As of March 1, 2010, we
    expect to own 789,291 trust units. Based on certain provisions
    of the Trust agreement, the Trust is expected to terminate on
    March 1, 2010. Upon termination, the net profits interest
    will be placed for sale and we will receive proceeds from the
    sale less applicable expenses in direct proportion to the Trust
    units owned. This transaction is expected to have a minimal
    impact to our financial statements.

Gas
    Pipeline



We own and operate a combined total of approximately
    13,900 miles of pipelines with a total annual throughput of
    approximately 2,700 TBtu of natural gas andpeak-daydelivery capacity of approximately 12 MMdt of gas. Gas
    Pipeline consists of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC
    (Transco) and Northwest Pipeline GP (Northwest Pipeline). Gas
    Pipeline also holds interests in joint venture interstate and
    intrastate natural gas pipeline systems including a
    50 percent interest in Gulfstream. Gas Pipeline also
    includes WMZ.



Transco



Transco is an interstate natural gas transportation company that
    owns and operates a 10,000-mile natural gas pipeline system
    extending from Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and the offshore
    Gulf of Mexico through Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North
    Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey to
    the New York City metropolitan area. The system serves customers
    in Texas and 11 southeast and Atlantic seaboard states,
    including major metropolitan areas in Georgia, North Carolina,
    Washington, D.C., New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.



Pipeline
    system and customers



At December 31, 2009, Transco’s system had a mainline
    delivery capacity of approximately 4.7 MMdt of natural gas
    per day from its production areas to its primary markets. Using
    its Leidy Line along with market-area storage and transportation
    capacity, Transco can deliver an additional 3.9 MMdt of
    natural gas per day for a system-wide delivery capacity total of
    approximately 8.6 MMdt of natural gas per day.
    Transco’s system includes 45 compressor stations, four
    underground storage fields, and a liquefied natural gas (LNG)
    storage facility. Compression facilities at sea level-rated
    capacity total approximately 1.5 million horsepower.



Transco’s major natural gas transportation customers are
    public utilities and municipalities that provide service to
    residential, commercial, industrial and electric generation end
    users. Shippers on Transco’s system include public
    utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct
    industrial users, electrical generators, gas





marketers and producers. One customer accounted for
    approximately 11 percent and another customer accounted for
    approximately 10 percent of Transco’s total revenues
    in 2009. Transco’s firm transportation agreements are
    generally long-term agreements with various expiration dates and
    account for the major portion of Transco’s business.
    Additionally, Transco offers storage services and interruptible
    transportation services under short-term agreements.



Transco has natural gas storage capacity in four underground
    storage fields located on or near its pipeline system or market
    areas and operates two of these storage fields. Transco also has
    storage capacity in an LNG storage facility that they own and
    operate. The total usable gas storage capacity available to
    Transco and its customers in such underground storage fields and
    LNG storage facility and through storage service contracts is
    approximately 204 billion cubic feet of gas. In addition,
    wholly owned subsidiaries of Transco operate and hold a
    35 percent ownership interest in Pine Needle LNG Company,
    LLC, a LNG storage facility with 4 billion cubic feet of
    storage capacity. Storage capacity permits Transco’s
    customers to inject gas into storage during the summer and
    off-peak periods for delivery during peak winter demand periods.



Transco
    expansion projects



The pipeline projects listed below were completed during 2009 or
    are significant future pipeline projects for which we have
    customer commitments.



Sentinel
    Expansion Project



The Sentinel Expansion Project is a recently completed expansion
    of our existing natural gas transmission system from the Leidy
    Hub in Clinton County, Pennsylvania and from the Pleasant Valley
    interconnection with Cove Point LNG in Fairfax County, Virginia
    to various delivery points requested by the shippers under the
    project. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be up
    to approximately $229 million. Phase I was placed into
    service in December 2008. Phase II was placed into service
    in November 2009.



Mobile
    Bay South Expansion Project



The Mobile Bay South Expansion Project involves the addition of
    compression at Transco’s Station 85 in Choctaw County,
    Alabama, to allow Transco to provide firm transportation service
    southbound on the Mobile Bay line from Station 85 to various
    delivery points. In May 2009, Transco received approval from the
    Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The capital cost of
    the project is estimated to be approximately $37 million.
    Transco plans to place the project into service by May 2010.



Mobile
    Bay South II Expansion Project



The Mobile Bay South II Expansion Project involves the
    addition of compression at Transco’s Station 85 in Choctaw
    County, Alabama, and modifications to existing facilities at
    Transco’s Station 83 in Mobile County, Alabama, to allow
    Transco to provide additional firm transportation service
    southbound on the Mobile Bay line from Station 85 to various
    delivery points. In November 2009, Transco filed an application
    with the FERC. The capital cost of the project is estimated to
    be approximately $36 million. Transco plans to place the
    project into service by May 2011.



    North Expansion Project



The 85 North Expansion Project involves an expansion of our
    existing natural gas transmission system from Station 85 in
    Choctaw County, Alabama, to various delivery points as far north
    as North Carolina. In September 2009, Transco received approval
    from the FERC. The capital cost of the project is estimated to
    be $241 million. Transco plans to place the project into
    service in phases, in July 2010 and May 2011.



Mid-South
    Expansion Project



The Mid-South Expansion Project involves an expansion of
    Transco’s mainline from Station 85 in Choctaw County,
    Alabama, to markets as far downstream as North Carolina. Transco
    anticipates filing an





application with the FERC in the fourth quarter of 2010. The
    capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately
    $200 million. Transco plans to place the project into
    service in September 2012.



Mid-Atlantic
    Connector Project



The Mid-Atlantic Connector Project involves an expansion of
    Transco’s mainline from an existing interconnection with
    East Tennessee Natural Gas in North Carolina to markets as far
    downstream as Maryland. Transco anticipates filing an
    application with the FERC in the first quarter of 2011. The
    capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately
    $55 million. Transco plans to place the project into
    service in November 2012.



Rockaway
    Delivery Lateral Project



The Rockaway Delivery Lateral Project involves the construction
    of athree-mileoffshore lateral to National Grid’s distribution system in
    New York. Transco anticipates filing an application with the
    FERC in the third quarter of 2010. The capital cost of the
    project is estimated to be approximately $120 million.
    Transco plans to place the project into service in November 2013.



Operating
    statistics



The following table summarizes transportation data for the
    Transco system for the periods indicated:



200920082007(In TBtu)Market-area deliveries:Long-haul transportation624753839Market-area transportation1,093969875Total market-area deliveries1,7171,7221,714Production-area transportation184188190Total system deliveries1,9011,9101,904Average Daily Transportation Volumes5.25.25.2Average Daily Firm Reserved Capacity6.86.86.6





Transco’s facilities are divided into eight rate zones.
    Five are located in the production area, and three are located
    in the market area. Long-haul transportation involves gas that
    Transco receives in one of the production-area zones and
    delivers to a market-area zone. Market-area transportation
    involves gas that Transco both receives and delivers within the
    market-area zones. Production-area transportation involves gas
    that Transco both receives and delivers within the
    production-area zones.



Northwest
    Pipeline



Northwest Pipeline is an interstate natural gas transportation
    company that owns and operates a natural gas pipeline system
    extending from the San Juan basin in northwestern New
    Mexico and southwestern Colorado through Colorado, Utah,
    Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington to a point on the
    Canadian border near Sumas, Washington. Northwest Pipeline
    provides services for markets in California, Arizona, New
    Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon, and
    Washington directly or indirectly through interconnections with
    other pipelines.



Pipeline
    system and customers



At December 31, 2009, Northwest Pipeline’s system,
    having long-term firm transportation agreements including
    peaking service of approximately 3.7 Bcf of natural gas per
    day, was composed of approximately 3,900 miles of mainline
    and lateral transmission pipelines and 41 transmission
    compressor stations having a combined sea level-rated capacity
    of approximately 473,000 horsepower.





In 2009, Northwest Pipeline served a total of 127 transportation
    and storage customers. Northwest Pipeline transports and stores
    natural gas for a broad mix of customers, including local
    natural gas distribution companies, municipal utilities, direct
    industrial users, electric power generators and natural gas
    marketers and producers. The two largest customers of Northwest
    Pipeline in 2009 accounted for approximately 22 percent and
    12 percent, respectively, of its total operating revenues.
    No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of
    Northwest Pipeline’s total operating revenues in 2009.
    Northwest Pipeline’s firm transportation and storage
    contracts are generally long-term contracts with various
    expiration dates and account for the major portion of Northwest
    Pipeline’s business. Additionally, Northwest Pipeline
    offers interruptible and short-term firm transportation service.



As a part of its transportation services, Northwest Pipeline
    utilizes underground storage facilities in Utah and Washington
    enabling it to balance daily receipts and deliveries. Northwest
    Pipeline also owns and operates an LNG storage facility in
    Washington that provides service for customers during a few days
    of extreme demands. These storage facilities have an aggregate
    firm delivery capacity of approximately 700 MMcf of gas per
    day.



Northwest
    Pipeline expansion projects



The pipeline projects listed below were completed during 2009 or
    are significant future pipeline projects for which we have
    customer commitments.



Colorado
    Hub Connection Project



In November 2009, Northwest Pipeline placed into service the new27-mile,24-inchdiameter lateral referred to as the Colorado Hub Project (CHC
    Project). The new lateral connects the Meeker/White River Hub
    near Meeker, Colorado to its mainline south of Rangely,
    Colorado, and is estimated to cost up to $60 million. The
    CHC Project combined the new lateral capacity with existing
    mainline capacity to provide approximately 363 Mdth per day of
    firm transportation from various receipt points to delivery
    points on the mainline as far south as Ignacio, Colorado. In
    April 2009, the FERC issued a certificate approving the CHC
    Project, including the presumption of rolling in the costs of
    the project in any future rate case filed with the FERC.



Sundance
    Trail Expansion



In November 2009, Northwest Pipeline received approval from the
    FERC to construct approximately 16 miles of30-inchloop
    between Northwest Pipeline’s existing Green River and Muddy
    Creek compressor stations in Wyoming as well as an upgrade to
    Northwest Pipeline’s existing Vernal compressor station,
    with service targeted to commence in November 2010. The total
    project is estimated to cost up to $65 million, including
    the cost of replacing the existing compression at Vernal, which
    will enhance the efficiency of Northwest Pipeline’s system.
    Northwest Pipeline executed a precedent agreement to provide 150
    Mdth per day of firm transportation service from the Greasewood
    and Meeker Hubs in Colorado for delivery to the Opal Hub in
    Wyoming. Northwest Pipeline has proposed to collect its maximum
    system rates, and has received approval from the FERC to roll-in
    the Sundance Trail Expansion costs in any future rate cases.



Operating
    statistics



The following table summarizes volume and capacity data for the
    Northwest Pipeline system for the periods indicated:



200920082007(In TBtu)Total Transportation Volume769781757Average Daily Transportation Volumes2.12.12.1Average Daily Reserved Capacity Under Base Firm Contracts,
    excluding peak capacity2.72.52.5Average Daily Reserved Capacity Under Short-Term Firm
    Contracts(1)0.50.70.8











(1)Consists primarily of additional capacity created from time to
    time through the installation of new receipt or delivery points
    or the segmentation of existing mainline capacity. Such capacity
    is generally marketed on a short-term firm basis.



Gulfstream



Gulfstream is a natural gas pipeline system extending from the
    Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in Florida. Gas Pipeline
    and Spectra Energy, through their respective subsidiaries, each
    holds a 50 percent ownership interest in Gulfstream and
    provides operating services for Gulfstream. At December 31,
    2009, our equity investment in Gulfstream was $383 million.



Gulfstream
    expansion projects



Gulfstream placed the Phase III expansion project in
    service on September 1, 2008. The project extended the
    pipeline system into South Florida and fully subscribed the
    remaining 345 Mdt/d of firm capacity on the existing pipeline
    system on a long-term basis. The capital cost of this project
    was $118 million, with Gas Pipeline’s share being
    50 percent of such costs. Service under the Gulfstream
    Phase IV expansion project began during the fourth quarter
    of 2008. The project is fully subscribed on a long-term basis
    and is the first incremental expansion of Gulfstream’s
    mainline capacity. The capital cost of this expansion was
    $190 million, with Gas Pipeline’s share being
    50 percent of such costs. The Phase V expansion involves
    the addition of compression to provide 35 Mdt/d of firm capacity
    by July 2011. The estimated capital cost of this expansion is
    approximately $54 million with Gas Pipeline’s share
    being 50 percent of such cost.



WMZ



WMZ was formed to own and operate natural gas transportation and
    storage assets. As of December 31, 2009, we own an
    approximate 45.7 percent limited partnership interest and a
    2 percent general partner interest in WMZ. A subsidiary of
    ours, Williams Pipeline GP LLC, serves as the general partner of
    WMZ. WMZ owns a 35 percent interest in Northwest Pipeline.



As previously discussed, our overall ownership in WMZ was
    affected by our restructuring transactions in 2010. WPZ intends
    to make an exchange offer for the publicly held units of WMZ at
    a future date. See “Strategic Restructuring” in
    Part I, Item 1 of this Form10-Kfor
    further discussion of this potential exchange offer.

Midstream
    Gas & Liquids



Our Midstream segment, one of the nation’s largest natural
    gas gatherers and processors, has primary service areas
    concentrated in major producing basins in Colorado, New Mexico,
    Wyoming, the Gulf of Mexico, Pennsylvania, and western Canada.
    Midstream’s primary businesses — natural gas
    gathering, treating, and processing; NGL fractionation, storage
    and transportation; and oil transportation — fall
    within the middle of the process of taking raw natural gas and
    crude oil from the producing fields to the consumer. NGLs,
    ethylene and propylene are extracted/produced at our plants,
    including our Canadian and Gulf Coast olefins plants. These
    products are used primarily for the manufacture of
    petrochemicals, home heating fuels and refinery feedstock.



Key variables for the Midstream business will continue to be:



•Retaining and attracting customers by continuing to provide
    reliable services;•Revenue growth associated with additional infrastructure either
    completed or currently under construction;•Disciplined growth in our core service areas and new step-out
    areas;•Prices impacting our commodity-based processing and olefin
    activities.







Domestic
    Gathering, Processing and Treating



Our domestic gathering systems receive natural gas from
    producers’ oil and natural gas wells and gather these
    volumes to gas processing, treating or redelivery facilities.
    Typically, natural gas, in its raw form, is not acceptable for
    transportation in major interstate natural gas pipelines or for
    commercial use as a fuel. In addition, natural gas contains
    various amounts of NGLs, which generally have a higher value
    when separated from the natural gas stream. Our processing and
    treating plants remove water vapor, carbon dioxide and other
    contaminants and our processing plants extract the NGLs and
    olefins. NGL products include:



•Ethane, primarily used in the petrochemical industry as a
    feedstock for ethylene production, one of the basic building
    blocks for plastics;•Propane, used for heating, fuel and as a petrochemical feedstock
    in the production of ethylene and propylene, another building
    block for petrochemical-based products such as carpets, packing
    materials and molded plastic parts;•Normal butane, iso-butane and natural gasoline, primarily used
    by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor gasoline
    or as a petrochemical feedstock.



Although a significant portion of our gas processing services
    are performed for a volumetric-based fee, a portion of our gas
    processing agreements are commodity-based and include two
    distinct types of commodity exposure. The first type includes
    “keep-whole” processing agreements whereby we own the
    rights to the value from NGLs recovered at our plants and have
    the obligation to replace the lost heating value with natural
    gas. Under these agreements, we are exposed to the spread
    between NGL prices and natural gas prices. The second type
    consists of“percent-of-liquids”agreements whereby we receive a portion of the extracted liquids
    with no direct exposure to the price of natural gas. Under these
    agreements, we are only exposed to NGL price movements. NGLs we
    retain in connection with both of these types of processing
    agreements are referred to as our equity NGL production. Our
    gathering and processing agreements have terms ranging frommonth-to-monthto the life of the producing lease. Generally, our gathering and
    processing agreements are long-term agreements.



Our domestic gas gathering and processing customers are
    generally natural gas producers who have provedand/orproducing natural gas fields in the areas surrounding our
    infrastructure. During 2009, these operations gathered and
    processed gas for approximately 230 gas gathering and processing
    customers. Our top 7 gathering and processing customers
    accounted for approximately 50 percent of our domestic
    gathering and processing revenue.



In addition to our natural gas assets, we own and operate three
    deepwater crude oil pipelines and own two production platforms
    serving the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Our crude oil
    transportation revenues are typically volumetric-based fee
    arrangements. However, a portion of our marketing revenues are
    recognized from purchase and sale arrangements whereby we
    purchase oil from producers at the receipt points of our crude
    oil pipelines for an index-based price and resell the oil at
    delivery points at the same index-based price. Our offshore
    floating production platform provides centralized services to
    deepwater producers such as compression, separation, production
    handling, water removal and pipeline landings. Revenue sources
    have historically included a combination of fixed-fee,
    volumetric-based fee and cost reimbursement arrangements. Fixed
    fees associated with the resident production at our Devils Tower
    facility are recognized on aunits-of-productionbasis.



Geographically, our Midstream natural gas assets are positioned
    to maximize commercial and operational synergies with our other
    assets. For example, most of our offshore gathering and
    processing assets attach and process or condition natural gas
    supplies delivered to the Transco pipeline. Also, our gathering
    and processing facilities in the San Juan basin handle
    approximately 87 percent of our Exploration &
    Production segment’s equity production in this basin. Our
    Willow Creek plant, completed in 2009, is currently processing
    Exploration & Production segment’s wellhead
    production in the Piceance basin. Our San Juan basin,
    southwest Wyoming, and Willow Creek systems deliver residue gas
    volumes into Northwest Pipeline’s interstate system in
    addition to third-party interstate systems.



West
    region domestic gathering, processing and treating



We ownand/oroperate domestic gas gathering, processing and treating assets
    within the western states of Wyoming, Colorado and New Mexico.







In the Rocky Mountain area, our assets include:



•Approximately 3,500 miles of gathering pipelines with a
    capacity of nearly one Bcf/d and over 4,000 receipt points
    serving the Wamsutter and southwest Wyoming areas in Wyoming;•Opal and Echo Springs processing plants with a combined daily
    inlet capacity of over1,800 MMcf/dand NGL processing capacity of nearly 100 Mbbls/d.



In the Four Corners area, our assets include:



•Approximately 3,800 miles of gathering pipelines with a
    capacity of nearly two Bcf/d and approximately 6,500 receipt
    points serving the San Juan basin in New Mexico and
    Colorado;•Ignacio, Kutz and Lybrook processing plants with a combined
    daily inlet capacity of765 MMcf/dand NGL processing capacity of approximately 40 Mbbls/d.
    The Ignacio plant also has the capacity to produce slightly more
    than one Mbbls/d of liquefied natural gas;•Milagro and Esperanza natural gas treating plants, which remove
    carbon dioxide but do not extract NGLs, with a combined daily
    inlet capacity of750 MMcf/d.At our Milagro facility, we also use gas-driven turbines to
    produce approximately 60 mega-watts per day of electricity which
    we primarily sell into the local electrical grid.



In the Piceance basin in Colorado, our infrastructure includes:



•The Willow Creek processing plant, a450 MMcf/dcryogenic natural gas processing plant in western
    Colorado’s Piceance basin, designed to recover
    30 Mbbls/d of NGLs. In the third quarter of 2009,
    construction was finished and the plant began operations. The
    plant is currently operating at its designed inlet capacity. In
    the current processing arrangement with Exploration &
    Production, Midstream receives a volumetric-based processing fee
    and a percent of the NGLs extracted.•Parachute Lateral, a38-mile,30-inchdiameter line transporting gas from the Parachute area to the
    Greasewood hub and White River hub in northwest Colorado. Our
    Willow Creek plant processes gas flowing through the Parachute
    Lateral.•PGX pipeline delivering NGLs previously transported by truck
    from Exploration & Production’s existing
    Parachute area processing plants to a major NGL transportation
    pipeline system.



West
    region expansion projects



Our major capital and expansion projects include additional
    capacity at our Echo Springs facility and related gathering
    system expansions in the Wamsutter basin. We expect to
    significantly increase the processing and NGL production
    capacities at our Echo Springs cryogenic natural gas processing
    plant in Wyoming. The addition of a fourth cryogenic processing
    train will add approximately350 MMcf/dof processing capacity and 30 Mbbls/d of NGL production
    capacity, nearly doubling Echo Spring’s capacities in both
    cases. We began construction on the fourth train at Echo Springs
    during the second half of 2009 and expect to bring the
    additional capacity online during late 2010.



Gulf
    region domestic gathering, processing and treating



We ownand/oroperate domestic gas gathering and processing assets and crude
    oil pipelines primarily within the onshore and offshore shelf
    and deepwater areas in and around the Gulf Coast states of
    Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama. We own:



•Over 700 miles of onshore and offshore natural gas
    gathering pipelines with a combined capacity of approximately
    3.5 Bcf/d, including:



•The115-miledeepwater Seahawk gas pipeline in the western Gulf of Mexico,
    flowing into our Markham processing plant and serving the
    Boomvang and Nansen field areas;







•The139-mileCanyon Chief gas pipeline, now including the37-mileBlind Faith extension added in the fourth quarter of 2008, in
    the eastern Gulf of Mexico, flowing into our Mobile Bay
    processing plant and serving the Devils Tower, Triton,
    Goldfinger, Bass Lite and Blind Faith fields;



•Mobile Bay and Markham processing plants with a combined daily
    inlet capacity of1,000 MMcf/dand NGL handling capacity of 50 Mbbls/d;•Canyon Station production platform, which brings natural gas to
    specifications allowable by major interstate pipelines but does
    not extract NGLs, with a daily inlet capacity of500 MMcf/d;•Three deepwater crude oil pipelines with a combined length of
    300 miles and capacity of 325 Mbbls/d including:



•BANJO pipeline running parallel to the Seahawk gas pipeline
    delivering production from two producer-owned spar-type floating
    production systems; and delivering production to our
    shallow-water platform at Galveston Area Block A244 (GA-A244)
    and then onshore through ExxonMobil’s Hoover Offshore Oil
    Pipeline System (HOOPS);•Alpine pipeline in the central Gulf of Mexico, serving the
    Gunnison field, and delivering production to GA-A244 and then
    onshore through HOOPS under a joint tariff agreement;•Mountaineer oil pipeline which connects to similar production
    sources as our Canyon Chief pipeline and, now including the new
    Blind Faith extension, ultimately delivering production to
    ChevronTexaco’s Empire Terminal in Plaquemines Parish,
    Louisiana;



•Devils Tower production platform located in Mississippi Canyon
    Block 773, approximately 150 miles south-southwest of
    Mobile, Alabama and serving production from the Devils Tower,
    Triton, Goldfinger and Bass Lite fields. Located in
    5,610 feet of water, it is one of the world’s deepest
    dry tree spars. The platform, which is operated by ENI Petroleum
    on our behalf, is capable of handling210 MMcf/dof natural gas and 60 Mbbls/d of oil.



Gulf
    region expansion projects



Our current major expansion project in the Gulf region is our
    Perdido Norte project located in the western deepwater of the
    Gulf of Mexico. The investment expands our existing
    infrastructure and includes a total of 184 miles of deepwater
    oil and gas pipeline and a200 MMcf/dexpansion of our onshore Markham gas processing facility. We
    expect the project to beginstart-upoperations in the first quarter of 2010.



Olefins



Gulf
    Coast region olefins



In the Gulf of Mexico region, we own a 10/12 interest in and are
    the operator of an ethane cracker at Geismar, Louisiana, with a
    total production capacity of 1.3 billion pounds of ethylene
    and 90 million pounds of propylene per year. Our feedstock
    for the ethane cracker is ethane and propane; as a result, we
    are exposed to the price spread between ethane and propane, and
    ethylene and propylene, respectively. We also own ethane and
    propane pipeline systems and a refinery grade propylene splitter
    with a production capacity of approximately 500 million
    pounds per year of propylene and its related pipeline system in
    Louisiana. At our propylene splitter, we purchase refinery grade
    propylene and fractionate it into polymer grade propylene and
    propane; as a result we are exposed to the price spread between
    those commodities.



Canadian
    region olefins



Our Canadian operations include an oil sands off-gas processing
    plant located near Ft. McMurray, Alberta and an NGL/olefin
    fractionation facility near Edmonton, Alberta. Our facilities
    extract liquids from the off-gas produced by a third-party oil
    sands bitumen upgrading process. Our arrangement with the
    third-party upgrader is a “keep-whole” type where we
    remove a mix of NGLs and olefins from the off-gas and return the
    equivalent heating value back to the third party in the form of
    natural gas. We then fractionate, treat, store, terminal and
    sell the





propane, propylene, butane, butylenes and condensate recovered
    from this process. Our commodity price exposure is the spread
    between the price for natural gas and the NGL and olefin
    products we produce. We continue to be the only NGL/olefins
    fractionator in western Canada and the only treater/processor of
    oil sands upgrader off-gas. Our extraction of liquids from
    upgrader off-gas streams allows the upgraders to burn cleaner
    natural gas streams and reduce their overall air emissions. The
    Ft. McMurray extraction plant has processing capacity in
    excess of100 MMcf/dwith the ability to recover in excess of 15 Mbbls/d of
    olefin and NGL products.



Canadian
    olefin expansion projects



In Canada, we expect to begin construction in 2010 on a261-mile,12-inchpipeline which will transport recovered NGLs and olefins from
    our processing plant in Ft. McMurray to our fractionation
    facility near Edmonton, Alberta. The pipeline will have
    sufficient capacity to transport additional NGLs and olefins
    from the current arrangement with the third-party oil sands
    producer, as well as from other oil-sands producers’
    off-gas in the Ft. McMurray area. The project will be
    constructed using cash previously generated from Canadian and
    other international projects. We anticipate an in-service date
    in 2012.



In addition, a project to upgrade the value of one of the
    products produced at the fractionators near Edmonton, Alberta,
    is expected to be completed in the latter part of 2010. The new
    splitter and hydrotreating facilities will take the
    butane/butlyene mix product currently produced and further
    fractionate the mix product into two higher value products that
    are in greater demand in the market place. These new facilities
    are also being constructed using cash generated from Canadian
    and other international projects.



NGL
    and Olefin Marketing Services



In addition to our gathering, processing and olefin production
    operations, we market NGLs and olefin products to a wide range
    of users in the energy and petrochemical industries. The NGL
    marketing business transports and markets equity NGLs from the
    production at our domestic processing plants, and also markets
    NGLs on behalf of third-party NGL producers, including some of
    our fee-based processing customers, and the NGL volumes owned by
    Discovery Producer Services LLC. The NGL marketing business
    bears the risk of price changes in these NGL volumes while they
    are being transported to final sales delivery points. In order
    to meet sales contract obligations, we may purchase products in
    the spot market for resale. The majority of domestic sales are
    based on supply contracts of one year or less in duration. The
    production from our Canadian facilities is marketed in Canada
    and in the United States.



Other



We own interests inand/oroperate NGL fractionation and storage assets. These assets
    include two partially owned NGL fractionation facilities: one
    near Conway, Kansas and the other in Baton Rouge, Louisiana that
    have a combined capacity in excess of 167 Mbbls/d. We also
    own approximately 20 million barrels of NGL storage
    capacity in central Kansas near Conway.



We own an equity interest in and operate the facilities of
    Discovery Producer Services LLC and its subsidiary Discovery Gas
    Transmission LLC (collectively, Discovery) through our interest
    in WPZ. Discovery’s assets include a600 MMcf/dcryogenic natural gas processing plant near Larose, Louisiana, a
    32 Mbbls/d NGL fractionator plant near Paradis, Louisiana
    and an offshore natural gas gathering and transportation system
    in the Gulf of Mexico.



We also own a 14.6 percent equity interest in Aux Sable
    Liquid Products LP and its Channahon, Illinois gas processing
    and NGL fractionation facility near Chicago. The facility is
    capable of processing up to 2.1 Bcf/d of natural gas from
    the Alliance Pipeline system and fractionating approximately
    87 Mbbls/d of extracted liquids into NGL products.



In June 2009, we completed the formation of a new joint venture,
    Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC (Laurel Mountain), in the
    Marcellus Shale located in southwest Pennsylvania. Our partner
    in the venture contributed its existing Appalachian basin
    gathering system, which currently has an average throughput of
    approximately100 MMcf/d.In exchange for a 51 percent interest in the venture, we
    contributed $100 million and issued a





$26 million note payable. In 2010, we expect to
    significantly increase our investment in our Laurel Mountain
    joint venture through new gathering system infrastructure
    construction.



In conjunction with a long-term agreement with a major producer,
    we will construct a28-milenatural gas gathering pipeline in the Marcellus Shale region
    that will deliver to the Transco pipeline. Construction is
    expected to begin on the20-inchpipeline in the latter part of 2010, and it is expected to be
    placed into service during 2011. We will operate the pipeline,
    which represents our second significant midstream expansion in
    the Marcellus Shale.



We own a 49.25 percent interest in Accroven SRL which
    includes two400 MMcf/dNGL extraction plants, a 50 Mbbls/d NGL fractionation plant
    and associated storage and refrigeration facilities. Accroven
    owns and operates gas processing facilities and an NGL
    fractionation plant for the exclusive benefit of the state-owned
    oil company, Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA). As a
    result of deteriorating circumstances for our Venezuelan
    operations (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements), we fully impaired and recognized a $75 million
    charge related to another-than-temporaryloss in value of our Accroven investment. (See Note 3 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Accroven was not
    part of the operations that were expropriated by the Venezuelan
    government in May 2009. We are currently engaged in discussions
    regarding the eventual disposition of Accroven.



Operating
    Statistics



The following table summarizes our significant operating
    statistics for Midstream:



200920082007Volumes:(1)Domestic gathering (TBtu)1,0681,0131,045Plant inlet natural gas (TBtu)1,3421,3111,275Domestic NGL production (Mbbls/d)(2)164154163Domestic NGL equity sales (Mbbls/d)(2)808092Crude oil gathering (Mbbls/d)(2)1097080Canadian NGL equity sales (Mbbls/d)(2)879Olefin (ethylene and propylene) sales (millions of pounds)1,7281,6051,401









(1)Excludes volumes associated with partially owned assets, such as
    our Discovery and Marcellus joint venture investments, that are
    not consolidated for financial reporting purposes.(2)Annual average Mbbls/d.



WPZ



WPZ was formed in 2005 to engage in gathering, transporting,
    processing and treating natural gas and fractionating and
    storing NGLs. As of December 31, 2009, we own approximately
    a 23.6 percent limited partnership interest, including the
    interests of the general partner, Williams Partners GP LLC,
    which is wholly owned by us, and incentive distribution rights.
    WPZ provides us with an alternative source of equity capital.
    WPZ also creates a vehicle to monetize our qualifying assets.
    Such transactions, which are subject to approval by the boards
    of directors of both Williams and WPZ’s general partner,
    allow us to retain control of the assets through our ownership
    interest in WPZ and operation of the assets. As of
    December 31, 2009, WPZ’s asset portfolio includes
    Williams Four Corners LLC, certain ownership interests in
    Wamsutter LLC, a 60 percent interest in Discovery, three
    integrated NGL storage facilities near Conway, Kansas, a
    50 percent interest in an NGL fractionator near Conway,
    Kansas, and the Carbonate Trend sour gas gathering pipeline off
    the coast of Alabama.



As previously discussed, our ownership in WPZ, WPZ’s asset
    portfolio, and our future segment reporting structure were
    affected by our 2010 restructuring transactions.

Gas
    Marketing Services



Gas Marketing primarily supports our natural gas businesses by
    providing marketing and risk management services, which include
    marketing and hedging the gas produced by
    Exploration & Production and procuring the





majority of fuel and shrink gas and hedging natural gas liquids
    sales for Midstream. Gas Marketing also provides similar
    services to third parties, such as producers and natural gas
    processors. In addition, Gas Marketing manages various natural
    gas-related contracts such as transportation and storage along
    with the related hedges, including certain legacy natural gas
    contracts and positions.



Gas Marketing’s 2009 natural gas purchase volumes include
    1.4 Bcf/d of gas produced by Exploration &
    Production and another 1.0 Bcf/d from other sources. This
    natural gas was in turn marketed and sold to third parties
    (2.1 Bcf/d) and to Midstream (0.3 Bcf/d).



Our Exploration & Production and Midstream segments
    may execute commodity hedges with Gas Marketing. In turn, Gas
    Marketing may execute offsetting derivative contracts with
    unrelated third parties.

Additional
    Business Segment Information



Our ongoing business segments are accounted for as continuing
    operations in the accompanying financial statements and notes to
    financial statements included in Part II.



Operations related to certain assets in “Discontinued
    Operations” have been reclassified from their traditional
    business segment to “Discontinued Operations” in the
    accompanying financial statements and notes to financial
    statements included in Part II.



We perform certain management, legal, financial, tax,
    consultation, information technology, administrative and other
    services for our subsidiaries.



Our principal sources of cash are from dividends and advances
    from our subsidiaries, investments, payments by subsidiaries for
    services rendered, interest payments from subsidiaries on cash
    advances and, if needed, external financings, sales of master
    limited partnership units to the public, and net proceeds from
    asset sales. The amount of dividends available to us from
    subsidiaries largely depends upon each subsidiary’s
    earnings and operating capital requirements. The terms of
    certain of our subsidiaries’ borrowing arrangements limit
    the transfer of funds to us.



We believe that we have adequate sources and availability of raw
    materials and commodities for existing and anticipated business
    needs. In support of our energy commodity activities, primarily
    conducted through Gas Marketing Services, our counterparties
    require us to provide various forms of credit support such as
    margin, adequate assurance amounts and pre-payments for gas
    supplies. Our pipeline systems are all regulated in various ways
    resulting in the financial return on the investments made in the
    systems being limited to standards permitted by the regulatory
    agencies. Each of the pipeline systems has ongoing capital
    requirements for efficiency and mandatory improvements, with
    expansion opportunities also necessitating periodic capital
    outlays.

REGULATORY
    MATTERS



Exploration & Production.Our
    Exploration & Production business is subject to
    various federal, state and local laws and regulations on
    taxation and payment of royalties, and the development,
    production and marketing of oil and gas, and environmental and
    safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling
    permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production,
    water discharge, prevention of waste and other matters. Such
    laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning,
    designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our
    oil and gas wells and other facilities. In addition, these laws
    and regulations, and any others that are passed by the
    jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the total
    number of wells drilled or the allowable production from
    successful wells, which could limit our reserves.



Gas Pipeline.Gas Pipeline’s interstate
    transmission and storage activities are subject to FERC
    regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and under the
    Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, and, as such, its rates and
    charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate
    commerce, its accounting, and the extension, enlargement or
    abandonment of its jurisdictional facilities, among other
    things, are subject to regulation. Each gas pipeline company
    holds certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by
    the FERC authorizing ownership and operation of all pipelines,
    facilities and properties for which certificates are required
    under the NGA. Each gas pipeline company is also subject to the
    Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, and the
    Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, which regulates safety
    requirements in the design, construction, operation and





maintenance of interstate natural gas transmission facilities.
    FERC Standards of Conduct govern how our interstate pipelines
    communicate and do business with gas marketing employees. Among
    other things, the Standards of Conduct require that interstate
    pipelines not operate their systems to preferentially benefit
    gas marketing functions.



Each of our interstate natural gas pipeline companies
    establishes its rates primarily through the FERC’s
    ratemaking process. Key determinants in the ratemaking process
    are:



•Costs of providing service, including depreciation expense;•Allowed rate of return, including the equity component of the
    capital structure and related income taxes;•Volume throughput assumptions.



The allowed rate of return is determined in each rate case. Rate
    design and the allocation of costs between the demand and
    commodity rates also impact profitability. As a result of these
    proceedings, certain revenues previously collected may be
    subject to refund.



Pipeline
    Integrity Regulations



Transco and Northwest Pipeline have developed Integrity
    Management Plans that meet the United States Department of
    Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
    Administration (“PHMSA”) final rule pursuant to the
    requirements of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002. In
    meeting the integrity regulations, Transco and Northwest
    Pipeline have identified high-consequence areas, completed
    baseline assessment plans, and are on schedule to complete the
    required assessments within specified timeframes. Currently,
    Transco and Northwest Pipeline estimate that the cost to perform
    required assessments and remediation will be primarily capital
    and range between $150 million and $220 million and
    between $65 million and $85 million, respectively,
    over the remaining assessment period of 2010 through 2012.
    Management considers the costs associated with compliance with
    the rule to be prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of
    business and, therefore, recoverable through rates.



Midstream Gas & Liquids.For our
    Midstream segment, onshore gathering is subject to regulation by
    states in which we operate and offshore gathering is subject to
    the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA). Of the states
    where Midstream gathers gas, currently only Texas actively
    regulates gathering activities. Texas regulates gathering
    primarily through complaint mechanisms under which the state
    commission may resolve disputes involving an individual
    gathering arrangement. Although offshore gathering facilities
    are not subject to the NGA, offshore transmission pipelines are
    subject to the NGA, and in recent years the FERC has taken a
    broad view of offshore transmission, finding many shallow-water
    pipelines to be jurisdictional transmission. Most gathering
    facilities offshore are subject to the OCSLA, which provides in
    part that outer continental shelf pipelines “must provide
    open and nondiscriminatory access to both owner and nonowner
    shippers.”



Midstream also owns interests in and operates two offshore
    transmission pipelines that are regulated by the FERC because
    they are deemed to transport gas in interstate commerce. Black
    Marlin Pipeline Company provides transportation service for
    offshore Texas production in the High Island area and redelivers
    that gas to intrastate pipeline interconnects near Texas City.
    Discovery provides transportation service for offshore Louisiana
    production from the South Timbalier, Grand Isle, Ewing Bank and
    Green Canyon (deepwater) areas to an onshore processing facility
    and downstream interconnect points with major interstate
    pipelines. FERC regulation requires all terms and conditions of
    service, including the rates charged, to be filed with and
    approved by the FERC before any changes can go into effect.



Our Midstream Canadian assets are regulated by the Energy
    Resources Conservation Board (ERCB) and Alberta Environment. The
    regulatory system for the Alberta oil and gas industry
    incorporates a large measure of self-regulation, providing that
    licensed operators are held responsible for ensuring that their
    operations are conducted in accordance with all provincial
    regulatory requirements. For situations in which noncompliance
    with the applicable regulations is at issue, the ERCB and
    Alberta Environment have implemented an enforcement process with
    escalating consequences.



Gas Marketing Services.Our Gas Marketing
    business is subject to a variety of laws and regulations at the
    local, state and federal levels, including the FERC and the
    Commodity Futures Trading Commission regulations. In





addition, natural gas markets continue to be subject to numerous
    and wide-ranging federal and state regulatory proceedings and
    investigations. We are also subject to various federal and state
    actions and investigations regarding, among other things, market
    structure, behavior of market participants, market prices, and
    reporting to trade publications. We may be liable for refunds
    and other damages and penalties as a result of ongoing actions
    and investigations. The outcome of these matters could affect
    our creditworthiness and ability to perform contractual
    obligations as well as other market participants’
    creditworthiness and ability to perform contractual obligations
    to us.



See Note 16 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further details on our regulatory matters.

ENVIRONMENTAL
    MATTERS



Our generation facilities, processing facilities, natural gas
    pipelines, and exploration and production operations are subject
    to federal environmental laws and regulations as well as the
    state and tribal laws and regulations adopted by the
    jurisdictions in which we operate. We could incur liability to
    governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil,
    gas or other pollutants into the air, soil, or water, as well as
    liability for cleanup costs. Materials could be released into
    the environment in several ways including, but not limited to:



•From a well or drilling equipment at a drill site;•Leakage from gathering systems, pipelines, processing or
    treating facilities, transportation facilities and storage tanks;•Damage to oil and gas wells resulting from accidents during
    normal operations;•Blowouts, cratering and explosions.



Because the requirements imposed by environmental laws and
    regulations are frequently changed, we cannot assure you that
    laws and regulations enacted in the future, including changes to
    existing laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our
    business. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage
    caused by former operators of our properties.



We believe compliance with environmental laws and regulations
    will not have a material adverse effect on capital expenditures,
    earnings or competitive position. However, environmental laws
    and regulations could affect our business in various ways from
    time to time, including incurring capital and maintenance
    expenditures, fines and penalties, and creating the need to seek
    relief from the FERC for rate increases to recover the costs of
    certain capital expenditures and operation and maintenance
    expenses.



For a discussion of specific environmental issues, see
    “Environmental” under Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and
    “Environmental Matters” in Note 16 of our Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements.

COMPETITION



Exploration & Production.Our
    Exploration & Production segment competes with other
    oil and gas concerns, including major and independent oil and
    gas companies in the development, production and marketing of
    natural gas. We compete in areas such as acquisition of oil and
    gas properties and obtaining necessary equipment, supplies and
    services. We also compete in recruiting and retaining skilled
    employees.



Gas Pipeline.The natural gas industry has
    undergone significant change over the past two decades. A
    highly-liquid competitive commodity market in natural gas and
    increasingly competitive markets for natural gas services,
    including competitive secondary markets in pipeline capacity,
    have developed. As a result, pipeline capacity is being used
    more efficiently, and peaking and storage services are
    increasingly effective substitutes for annual pipeline capacity.



Local distribution company (LDC) and electric industry
    restructuring by states have affected pipeline markets. Pipeline
    operators are increasingly challenged to accommodate the
    flexibility demanded by customers and allowed





under tariffs, but the changes implemented at the state level
    have not required renegotiation of LDC contracts. The state
    plans have in some cases discouraged LDCs from signing long-term
    contracts for new capacity.



States are in the process of developing new energy plans that
    may require utilities to encourage energy saving measures and
    diversify their energy supplies to include renewable sources.
    This could lower the growth of gas demand.



These factors have increased the risk that customers will reduce
    their contractual commitments for pipeline capacity. Future
    utilization of pipeline capacity will also depend on competition
    from LNG imported into markets and new pipelines from the
    Rockies and other new producing areas, many of which are
    utilizing master limited partnership structures with a lower
    cost of capital, and on growth of natural gas demand.



Midstream Gas & Liquids.In our
    Midstream segment, we face regional competition with varying
    competitive factors in each basin. Our gathering and processing
    business competes with other midstream companies, interstate and
    intrastate pipelines, producers and independent gatherers and
    processors. We primarily compete with five to ten companies
    across all basins in which we provide services. Numerous factors
    impact any given customer’s choice of a gathering or
    processing services provider, including rate, location, term,
    timeliness of services to be provided, pressure obligations and
    contract structure. We also compete in recruiting and retaining
    skilled employees. By virtue of the master limited partnership
    structure, WPZ provides us with an alternative source of
    capital, which helps us compete against other master limited
    partnerships for midstream projects.



Gas Marketing Services.In our Gas Marketing
    Services segment, we compete directly with large independent
    energy marketers, marketing affiliates of regulated pipelines
    and utilities, and natural gas producers. We also compete with
    brokerage houses, energy hedge funds and other energy-based
    companies offering similar services.

EMPLOYEES



At February 1, 2010, we had approximately
    4,801 full-time employees. None of our employees are
    represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining
    agreements.

FINANCIAL
    INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS



See Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for amounts of revenues during the last three fiscal
    years from external customers attributable to the United States
    and all foreign countries. Also see Note 18 of our Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to
    long-lived assets during the last three fiscal years, located in
    the United States and all foreign countries.



