10-K


p73516e10vk.htm

10-K

e10vk


UNITED
    STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

Form 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2006

or

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
    from     to

Commission file number

001-32373

LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Nevada

27-0099920

(State or other jurisdiction
    of

incorporation or organization)

(IRS Employer

Identification No.)

3355 Las Vegas Boulevard
    South

Las Vegas, Nevada

(Address of principal
    executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including Area Code:

(702) 414-1000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock ($0.001 par
    value)

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the
    registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
    Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the
    registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
    Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
    by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
    period that the registrant was required to file such reports);
    and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
    the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
    disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

(§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
    and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.  No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
    or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated
    filer and large accelerated filer” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer

þ

Accelerated
    filer

o

Non-accelerated
    filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the
    registrant is a shell company (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

As of June 30, 2006, the
    aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock
    held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $8,218,219,702
    based on the closing sale price on that date as reported on the
    New York Stock Exchange.

The Company had
    354,682,930 shares of common stock outstanding as of
    February 23, 2007.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Description of document

Part of the

Form 10-K

Portions of the definitive Proxy
    Statement to be used in connection with the registrant’s
    2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders

Part III (Item 10
    through Item 14)

Las Vegas
    Sands Corp.

Table of
    Contents

ii


PART I

ITEM 1. —

BUSINESS

Overview

Las Vegas Sands Corp. and its subsidiaries (“we” or
    the “Company”) own and operate The Venetian Resort
    Hotel Casino (also referred to as “The Venetian”) and
    The Sands Expo and Convention Center (also referred to as
    “The Sands Expo Center”) in Las Vegas, Nevada, and The
    Sands Macao Casino (also referred to as “The Sands
    Macao”) in Macao, China. We are also in the process of
    developing additional integrated resorts and properties in Las
    Vegas and Macao, including The Palazzo Resort Hotel Casino (also
    referred to as “The Palazzo”), which will be adjacent
    to and connected with The Venetian, The Venetian Macao Resort
    Hotel Casino (also referred to as “The Venetian
    Macao”) and other casino resort properties on the Cotai
    Strip

TM

in Macao. We recently were awarded licenses to develop Marina
    Bay Sands, an integrated resort in Singapore, and Sands
    Bethworks in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. We also are exploring
    other integrated resort opportunities in Asia, Europe and the
    United States.

Our
    Company

Las Vegas Sands Corp. was incorporated as a Nevada corporation
    in August 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock
    Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the symbol
    “LVS.” Immediately prior to our initial public
    offering in December 2004, we acquired 100% of the capital stock
    of Las Vegas Sands, Inc., a Nevada corporation and the direct or
    indirect owner and operator of The Venetian, The Sands Expo
    Center and The Sands Macao, by merging Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
    with and into our wholly-owned subsidiary, with Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc. as the surviving subsidiary. Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was
    incorporated in Nevada in April 1988. In July 2005, Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc. was converted into a limited liability company and
    changed its name to Las Vegas Sands, LLC.

Our principal executive office is located at 3355 Las Vegas
    Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109. Our telephone number
    at that address is

(702) 414-1000.

Our website address is

www.lasvegassands.com.

The
    information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Our Annual Reports on

Form 10-K,

Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q,

Current Reports on

Form 8-K,

proxy statements and other Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”) filings, and any amendments to those reports
    that we file with or furnish to the SEC under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our
    website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
    electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

This Annual Report on

Form 10-K

contains certain forward-looking statements. See
    “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Special Note Regarding
    Forward-Looking Statements.”

We review the results of operations based on the following
    geographic segments: (1) Las Vegas, which includes The
    Venetian, The Sands Expo Center and The Palazzo (currently under
    construction) and (2) Macao, which includes The Sands
    Macao, The Venetian Macao (currently under construction) and
    other development projects. In addition, Singapore, which
    includes the Marina Bay Sands (currently in development), will
    be reported as a separate segment. See
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 15 — Segment
    Information.”

Operations

The
    Venetian

The Venetian opened in May 1999. The Venetian currently has
    4,027 single and multiple bedroom suites situated in a 3,014

suite 35-story,

three-winged tower rising above the casino and the 1,013 suite,
    12-story Venezia tower situated above a parking garage. During
    2006, the average daily room rate at The Venetian was $239 and
    the average daily occupancy was 98.7%.

The casino at The Venetian has approximately 120,000 gross
    square feet of gaming space and is situated adjacent to the
    hotel lobby. The Venetian casino floor is accessible from each
    of the hotel, The Grand Canal Shops mall, The Congress Center,
    The Sands Expo Center and the Las Vegas Strip. The Venetian
    casino and its adjacent



amenities are stylized with architectural and interior design
    features reminiscent of Venice’s Renaissance era. The
    gaming facilities include approximately 1,700 slot machines of
    various denominations, including popular multi-property, linked
    progressive games and a sportsbook room. The Venetian
    casino’s 135 table games feature the traditional games of
    blackjack, craps, baccarat and roulette, Asian games such as Pai
    Gow and Pai Gow Poker, and popular progressive table games such
    as Caribbean Stud and Let It Ride. Our new poker room opened in
    April 2006 with 39 poker tables, as well as convenient food
    service for players. For its premium customers, The Venetian
    recently expanded its gaming salon, which includes baccarat,
    blackjack and roulette. This facility provides Asian influenced
    private dining rooms, direct access to private cash-out windows
    at the casino cage and direct access to the casino’s credit
    department.

The Venetian also contains numerous restaurants and two food
    courts (the majority of which were sold to General Growth
    Partners (“GGP”) as part of The Grand Canal Shops mall
    sale in 2004), and a theater/entertainment complex. In October
    2005, the Blue Man Group performance art production opened in a
    new theater at The Venetian. The Broadway musical
    “Phantom-The Las Vegas Spectacular” opened in a new

state-of-the-art

theater in June 2006. In October 2006, we opened an additional
    show, “Gordie Brown at The Venetian.” In addition, The
    Venetian also provides a variety of amenities for its guests,
    including the Canyon Ranch Spa, which is operated by Canyon
    Ranch.

The Venetian has an exhibition space that houses the Guggenheim
    Hermitage Museum, an art museum featuring masterpiece
    collections from the Guggenheim Museum in New York, the State
    Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia and other museums.

The
    Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center

With approximately 1.2 million gross square feet of exhibit
    and meeting space, including four exhibit halls and
    approximately 20 meeting rooms, The Sands Expo Center is one of
    the largest overall trade show and convention facilities in the
    United States (as measured by net leasable square footage). We
    also own and operate The Congress Center, an approximately
    1.1 million gross square foot meeting and conference
    facility that links The Sands Expo Center and the rest of The
    Venetian. The Congress Center includes extensive ballroom
    facilities, a meeting complex and an exhibition hall. Together,
    The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center offer
    approximately 2.3 million gross square feet of

state-of-the-art

exhibition and meeting facilities, which can be configured to
    provide small, mid-size or large meeting rooms

and/or

accommodate large-scale multi-media events or trade shows.
    Management believes that these combined facilities, together
    with the

on-site

amenities offered by The Venetian, offer a flexible and
    expansive space for large-scale trade shows and conventions.

Management markets The Congress Center to complement the
    operations of The Sands Expo Center for business conferences and
    upscale business events typically held during the mid-week
    period, thereby generating room-night demand and driving average
    daily room rates during the weekday move-in/move-out phases of
    The Sands Expo Center’s events. Events at The Sands Expo
    Center and The Congress Center typically take place during the
    week when Las Vegas hotels and casinos experience lower demand,
    unlike weekends and holidays during which occupancy and room
    rates are at their peak. Our goal is to draw from attendees and
    exhibitors at The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center to
    maintain mid-week demand at the hotel from this higher budget
    market segment, when room demand would otherwise be derived from
    the mid-week lower-budget tour and travel group market segment.
    In 2006, approximately 1.1 million visitors attended trade
    shows and conventions at The Sands Expo Center during
    approximately 160 show days.

The
    Sands Macao

We own and operate The Sands Macao, the first Las Vegas-style
    casino in Macao, pursuant to a

20-year

gaming subconcession. The Sands Macao is situated near the
    Macao-Hong Kong Ferry Terminal on a waterfront parcel centrally
    located between the Gonbei border gate and the central business
    district. This location provides The Sands Macao primary access
    to a large customer base, particularly the approximately
    6.6 million visitors who arrived in Macao by ferry in 2006.
    The Sands Macao includes approximately 229,000 square feet
    of gaming facilities. The Sands Macao has approximately 790
    table games, including baccarat, Sic-Bo, Fan-Tan, 3 card
    baccarat, 3 card poker, stud poker, blackjack and roulette, and
    approximately 1,380 slot machines or similar electronic gaming



devices. The Sands Macao also includes numerous restaurants, a
    spacious Paiza Club offering services and amenities to premium
    customers, luxurious VIP suites and spa facilities, private VIP
    gaming room facilities, a theater and other high end services
    and amenities. We are currently building The Sands Macao hotel
    tower which will consist of approximately 240 additional rooms
    and is expected to open in September 2007.

United
    States Development Projects

The
    Palazzo

We are building The Palazzo, which will be situated adjacent to
    and north of The Venetian. The Palazzo will be directly
    connected to both The Venetian and The Sands Expo Center and to
    a pedestrian bridge over Sands Avenue to the sidewalk adjacent
    to the Wynn Las Vegas resort. The Palazzo is scheduled to open
    in fall 2007. The Palazzo hotel will be a 50-floor luxury tower
    with approximately 3,025 suites and will include over 375
    concierge-level suites. The Palazzo will also include an
    enclosed shopping, dining and entertainment complex of
    approximately 450,000 square feet (the “Phase II
    mall”).

The casino at The Palazzo is expected to cover approximately
    105,000 square feet and have approximately 120 table games
    and 1,350 slot machines. The Palazzo’s casino will be
    differentiated from The Venetian’s casino in terms of look,
    feel and experience. The Palazzo casino’s design is also
    expected to attract a large number of walk-in players given its
    proximity to both The Venetian and the Las Vegas Strip. The
    Palazzo casino’s table games will feature the traditional
    games of blackjack, craps, baccarat and roulette, Asian games
    such as Pai Gow and Pai Gow Poker, and progressive table games
    such as Caribbean Stud and Let It Ride. The Palazzo’s
    casino will target high-end table games customers and premium
    slot customers, and will feature a high-end slot area with
    special products and services. The casino at The Palazzo will be
    accessible from each of The Palazzo’s hotel, the
    Phase II mall, The Congress Center, The Sands Expo Center
    and the Las Vegas Strip. The Palazzo also will include a theater
    that is expected to host a major production or Broadway show.

We have contracted to sell the Phase II mall to GGP at its
    completion. The Phase II mall will connect directly with
    The Grand Canal Shops mall and will offer approximately 450,000
    net leasable square feet of shopping, dining and entertainment
    space in two levels located within The Palazzo’s main
    structure, between the casino level and the hotel tower.
    Visitors and guests will be able to access the Phase II
    mall from several different locations, including from the Las
    Vegas Strip, The Palazzo’s hotel and casino, The Grand
    Canal Shops mall, The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center.

We are in the early stages of constructing a high rise
    residential condominium tower which will consist of
    approximately 270 luxury condominiums and will be situated
    between The Palazzo and The Venetian. The condominium tower is
    currently expected to open in late fall 2008 at an estimated
    cost ranging from $600.0 million to $700.0 million.

Sands
    Bethworks

On December 20, 2006, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board
    announced that our subsidiary, Sands Bethworks Gaming, LLC
    (“Sands Bethworks Gaming”), had been awarded a
    Pennsylvania gaming license. The award of the license is subject
    to appeals and the actual license will be awarded after the
    appeal period ends. We intend to develop a gaming, hotel,
    shopping and dining complex (the “Sands Bethworks”)
    located on the site of the Historic Bethlehem Steel Works in
    Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, which is about 70 miles from
    midtown Manhattan, New York. In its first phase, the

124-acre

development is expected to feature a 300-room hotel,
    200,000 square feet of retail space, 3,000 slot machines,
    and a variety of dining options. An additional 2,000 slot
    machines will be added in a subsequent phase. The complex is
    also expected be home to the National Museum of Industrial
    History, an arts and cultural center, and the broadcast home of
    the local PBS affiliate. We currently expect the cost to develop
    and construct the Sands Bethworks will be approximately
    $600.0 million and expect to open the complex in 2008.

Macao
    Development Projects

The
    Cotai Strip

We are building The Venetian Macao on the Cotai Strip. The
    Venetian Macao will be an all-suites hotel, casino and
    convention center complex with a Venetian-style theme similar to
    that of The Venetian in Las Vegas. The



Venetian Macao will also feature a 39-floor luxury hotel tower
    of approximately 3,000 suites, approximately 1.0 million
    square feet of retail and dining offerings, and a convention
    center and meeting room complex of approximately
    1.2 million square feet. The Venetian Macao is scheduled to
    open in summer 2007.

In addition to the development of The Venetian Macao, we are
    developing multiple other properties on the Cotai Strip. We have
    submitted development plans to the Macao government for six
    casino-resort developments in addition to The Venetian Macao on
    an area of approximately 200 acres located on the Cotai
    Strip (which we refer to as parcels 1, 2, 3,
    5, 6, 7 and 8). The developments are expected to include
    hotels, exhibition and conference facilities, casinos,
    showrooms, shopping malls, spas, world-class restaurants and
    entertainment facilities and other attractions and amenities, as
    well as common public areas. We have commenced construction or
    pre-construction on all seven parcels of the Cotai Strip. We
    plan to own and operate all of the casinos in these developments
    under our Macao gaming subconcession. More specifically, we
    intend to develop our Cotai Strip properties as follows:

•

Parcel 2 is intended to be a Four Seasons hotel and casino,
    which will be adjacent to The Venetian Macao and is expected to
    be a boutique hotel with approximately 400 luxury hotel rooms,
    approximately 800,000 square feet of Four Seasons-serviced
    luxury apartments, distinctive dining experiences, a full
    service spa and other amenities, an approximately
    45,000 square foot casino and approximately
    210,000 square feet of upscale retail offerings. We will
    own the entire development. We have entered into an exclusive
    non-binding letter of intent and are currently negotiating
    definitive agreements under which Four Seasons Hotels Inc. will
    manage the hotel and serviced luxury apartments under its Four
    Seasons brand.

•

Parcel 5 is intended to include a three-hotel complex with
    approximately 2,450 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms, serviced
    luxury apartments, a casino and a retail shopping mall. We will
    own the entire development and have entered into a management
    agreement with Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts to manage two
    hotels under its Shangri-La and Traders brands. In
    addition, we are negotiating with Starwood Hotels &
    Resorts Worldwide to manage a hotel and serviced luxury
    apartments under its St. Regis brand.

•

Parcel 6 is intended to include a two-hotel complex with
    approximately 4,000 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms, a casino
    and a retail shopping mall physically connected to the mall in
    the Shangri-La/Traders hotel podium. We will own the entire
    development and are negotiating with Starwood Hotels &
    Resorts Worldwide to manage the hotels under its Sheraton brand.

•

Parcels 7 and 8 are each intended to include a two-hotel complex
    with approximately 3,000 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms on
    each parcel, serviced luxury vacation suites, a casino and
    retail shopping malls that are physically connected. We will own
    the entire development and have entered into non-binding
    agreements with Hilton Hotels to manage Hilton and Conrad brand
    hotels and serviced luxury vacation suites on parcel 7 and
    Fairmont Raffles Holdings to manage Fairmont and Raffles brand
    hotel complexes and serviced luxury vacation suites on parcel 8.
    We are currently negotiating definitive agreements with Hilton
    Hotels and Fairmont Raffles Holdings.

•

For parcel 3, we have signed a non-binding memorandum of
    agreement with an independent developer. We are currently
    negotiating the definitive agreement pursuant to which we will
    partner with this developer to build a multi-hotel complex,
    which may include a Cosmopolitan hotel. In addition, we have
    signed a non-binding letter of intent with Intercontinental
    Hotels Group to manage hotels under the Intercontinental and
    Holiday Inn International brands, and serviced luxury vacation
    suites under the Intercontinental brand, on the site. We are
    currently negotiating definitive agreements with
    Intercontinental Hotels Group. In total, the multi-hotel complex
    is intended to include approximately 3,600 hotel rooms, serviced
    luxury vacation suites, a casino and a retail shopping mall.

The casino at The Venetian Macao is currently planned to have
    approximately 850 table games and 4,100 slot machines when it
    opens in summer 2007, and is designed to have a final capacity
    of approximately 1,150 table games and 7,000 slot machines. The
    Four Seasons resort is currently planned to feature
    approximately 130 table games and 400 slot machines. The casinos
    on parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 are each currently planned
    to include approximately 325 table games and 1,750 slot
    machines. Upon completion, our developments on the Cotai Strip
    are currently planned to feature total gaming capacity of
    approximately 2,900 table games and 16,000 slot machines.



In February 2007, we received the final draft of the land
    concession agreement from the Macao government pursuant to which
    we were awarded a concession by lease for parcels 1, 2 and
    3 on the Cotai Strip, including the sites on which we are
    building The Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons hotel. We have
    accepted the conditions of the draft land concession and have
    made an initial premium payment of $106.5 million towards
    the aggregate land premium of $323.7 million. Additionally,
    $24.1 million has been paid or will be paid in the form of
    the cost of the reclamation work and other works done on the
    land and the installation costs of an electrical substation with
    the remaining amount payable over time. The land concession will
    not become effective until the date it is published in
    Macao’s Official Gazette. Once the land concession is
    effective, we will be required to make additional land premium
    and annual rent payments relating to parcels 1, 2 and 3 in
    the amounts and at the times specified in the land concession.
    We currently estimate that the cost of developing and building
    The Venetian Macao will be approximately $2.4 billion
    (exclusive of the aggregate land concession payment of
    $323.7 million for parcels 1, 2 and 3). During May
    2006, our subsidiary, Venetian Macau Limited, and its
    subsidiaries (“VML”) obtained a $2.5 billion
    credit facility to fund The Sands Macao expansion and to
    partially fund the design, development, construction and
    pre-opening costs for The Venetian Macao, the Four Seasons hotel
    and some of our other development projects on the Cotai Strip,
    and to pay related fees and expenses. Currently, we expect the
    total cost of development on the Cotai Strip to be in the range
    of $9.0 billion to $11.0 billion. We will need to
    arrange additional debt financing to finance those costs as well.

We do not yet have all the necessary Macao government approvals
    that we will need in order to develop the Cotai Strip
    developments. We have commenced construction on our other Cotai
    Strip properties on land for which we have not yet been granted
    land concessions. If we do not obtain land concessions, we could
    lose all or a substantial part of our investment in these other
    Cotai Strip properties. As of December 31, 2006, we have
    invested approximately $100.0 million in our other Cotai
    Strip properties.

Hengqin
    Island Development Project

The Company has entered into a non-binding letter of intent with
    the Zhuhai Municipal People’s Government of the
    People’s Republic of China to work with it to create a
    master plan for, and develop, a leisure and convention
    destination resort on Hengqin Island, located approximately one
    mile from the Cotai Strip, but within mainland China. The
    Company is actively preparing design concepts for the
    destination resort. On January 10, 2007, the Zhuhai
    Government established a Project Coordination Committee to act
    as a government liaison empowered to work directly with the
    Company to advance the development of the project. We have
    interfaced with this committee and are actively working with the
    committee as we continue to advance our plans. The project
    remains subject to a number of conditions, including further
    governmental approvals.

Singapore
    Development Project

In August 2006, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. (“MBS”), entered into a
    development agreement (the “Development Agreement”)
    with the Singapore Tourism Board (“STB”) to build and
    operate an integrated resort called Marina Bay Sands in
    Singapore. The Marina Bay Sands will be a large integrated
    resort that includes three 54-story hotel towers (totaling
    approximately 2,600 suites) linked at their roofs by a Skypark
    with pools, cafes and other recreation facilities, a casino, an
    enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex of
    approximately 750,000 net leasable square feet, a
    convention center and meeting room complex of approximately
    1.2 million square feet, theaters, and a landmark iconic
    structure at the bay-front promenade that contains an
    approximately 150,000 square foot Art/Science museum. We
    expect the cost to develop and construct the Marina Bay Sands
    integrated resort will be approximately $3.6 billion,
    inclusive of the land premiums, taxes and other fees. The Marina
    Bay Sands is expected to open in 2009.



United
    Kingdom Development Projects

In December 2006, the Company announced that one of its
    affiliates and Cantor Gaming, an affiliate of the global
    financial services company Cantor Fitzgerald, have agreed to
    launch an online casino and poker site initially aimed at
    serving the United Kingdom market. Cantor Gaming will provide an
    online casino and poker destination featuring Las Vegas
    Sands’ brands. The site will offer casino games, including
    blackjack, roulette, baccarat, video poker, slots and online
    poker. The offering will be part of a full

end-to-end

gaming service, including customer age and location
    verification, online payment processing and customer services.
    The site is expected to be launched during the second quarter of
    2007. The site will be hosted, and the operator will be
    licensed, in compliance with the laws of Alderney, British
    Channel Islands. It will not accept U.S. customers.

The United Kingdom government recently announced that the
    country’s first regional super casino would be built in
    Manchester. A tender process for the operator of that facility
    is to be undertaken and we intend to participate in the tender
    process. In addition, we have existing agreements to develop and
    lease gaming and entertainment facilities with Sheffield United
    and Glasgow Rangers football clubs in the United Kingdom. Our
    ability to eventually develop and lease gaming and entertainment
    facilities under these agreements is subject to a number of
    conditions, including the passage of legislation to expand the
    number of authorized regional casinos and our ability to obtain
    a gaming license.

Other
    Development Projects

We are currently exploring the possibility of operating
    integrated resorts in additional Asian jurisdictions, the United
    States and Europe.

The Las
    Vegas Market

The Las Vegas market has shown consistent growth over both the
    near and long terms in both visitation and expenditures and has
    one of the highest hotel occupancy rates of any major market in
    the United States. According to the Las Vegas Convention and
    Visitors Authority (“LVCVA”), the number of visitors
    traveling to Las Vegas has increased at a steady and significant
    rate over the last five years, from approximately
    35.0 million visitors in 2001 to approximately
    38.9 million visitors in 2006. We believe that the growth
    in the Las Vegas market has been enhanced by:

•

the increased capacity of the city to host large-scale trade
    shows and conventions;

•

the introduction of large luxury and themed destination resorts
    in Las Vegas that attract new visitors to Las Vegas while also
    gaining share from older, smaller

and/or

undifferentiated resorts; and

•

the increased capacity of McCarran International Airport.

Las
    Vegas as a Trade Show, Convention and Meeting
    Destination

According to the LVCVA, Las Vegas has been among the most
    popular trade show and convention destinations in the United
    States in recent years. The LVCVA reports that trade show
    attendance rose from approximately 5.0 million to
    approximately 6.3 million between 2001 and 2006.

The majority of the room demand from trade show and convention
    attendees is generated during weekdays while tourist visits to
    Las Vegas are higher on weekends. As a result, the trade show
    convention market segments have been specifically targeted as
    prime avenues for driving mid-week traffic to Las Vegas.

Trade shows are held for the purpose of getting sellers and
    buyers of products or services together in order to conduct
    business. Trade shows differ from conventions in that trade
    shows typically require substantial amounts of space for
    exhibition purposes and participant circulation. Conventions
    generally are gatherings of companies or groups that require
    less space for breakout meetings and general meetings of the
    overall group. Las Vegas offers trade shows and conventions a
    unique infrastructure for handling the world’s largest
    shows, including extensive hotel and motel facilities, three
    convention centers (the Las Vegas Convention Center (the
    “LVCC”), the Mandalay Bay Convention Center and The
    Sands Expo Center), convenient air service from major cities
    throughout the United States and other countries, and
    significant entertainment opportunities.



Expanding
    Hotel Market

Las Vegas has been among the most popular travel destinations in
    the United States in recent years, with hotel occupancy rates
    among the highest of any major market in the country. To
    accommodate this popularity, Las Vegas has experienced a period
    of rapid hotel development, with the number of hotel and motel
    rooms in Las Vegas increasing from approximately 126,600 in 2001
    to approximately 132,600 in 2006 according to the LVCVA.

Growth
    of Las Vegas Retail Sector and Non-Gaming Revenues

An increasing number of destination resorts are developing
    non-gaming entertainment to complement their gaming activities
    in order to draw additional visitors and increase the spend per
    visitor. According to the LVCVA, while gaming revenues in Clark
    County increased from approximately $7.6 billion in 2001 to
    approximately $10.6 billion in 2006 (a 7.0% compound annual
    growth rate), non-gaming tourist revenues increased from
    approximately $24.3 billion in 2001 to approximately
    $28.8 billion in 2006 (a 3.5% compound annual growth rate).
    The newer, large luxury and themed Las Vegas destination resorts
    have been designed to capitalize on this growth by providing
    better quality hotel rooms at higher rates and by providing
    expanded shopping, dining and entertainment venues, as well as
    meeting facilities, to their patrons.

Infrastructure
    Improvements

Clark County and metropolitan Las Vegas have completed several
    infrastructure improvements to accommodate the increase in
    travel to Las Vegas by all modes of transportation. According to
    the LVCVA, in 2005 (the last full year for which data is
    available) visitors to Las Vegas arrived by the following
    methods of transportation: 47% by air; 53% by ground, including
    auto, bus and recreational vehicle.

During recent years, the facilities of McCarran International
    Airport have been expanded to accommodate the increased number
    of airlines and passengers that it services. The number of
    passengers traveling through McCarran International Airport has
    increased from approximately 35.2 million in 2001 to
    approximately 46.2 million in 2006.

Competition
    for Our Las Vegas Operations

The hotel/casino industry is highly competitive. Hotels on the
    Las Vegas Strip compete with other hotels on and off the Las
    Vegas Strip, including with hotels in downtown Las Vegas. The
    Venetian also competes with a large number of hotels and motels
    near Las Vegas. Many of our competitors are subsidiaries or
    divisions of large public companies and may have significant
    financial and other competitive resources. In particular, the
    acquisition of Mandalay Resort Group by MGM MIRAGE and the
    acquisition of Caesars Entertainment, Inc. by Harrah’s
    Entertainment, Inc. created two of the world’s largest
    gaming companies as measured by revenues.

Hotel/Casino
    Properties

Competitors of The Venetian include resorts on the Las Vegas
    Strip, such as the Bellagio, the Mandalay Bay Resort &
    Casino, Wynn Las Vegas and Caesars, and properties off the Las
    Vegas Strip. Several large projects also are expected to open in
    the next several years. Some of these facilities are or will be
    operated by companies that may have significant name recognition
    and financial and marketing resources and may target the same
    demographic groups as we do.

We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on
    Native American tribal lands. The governor of California has
    entered into compacts with numerous tribes in California and has
    announced the execution of a number of new compacts with no
    limits on the number of gaming machines, which was limited under
    the prior compacts. The federal government has approved numerous
    compacts in California and casino-style gaming is now legal on
    those tribal lands. While the competitive impact on our
    operations in Las Vegas from the continued growth of Native
    American gaming establishments in California remains uncertain,
    the proliferation of gaming in California and other areas
    located in the same region as The Venetian could have an adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

The hotel/casino operation of The Venetian also competes, to
    some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and in
    Atlantic City, hotel/casino and other resort facilities
    elsewhere in the country and the world, Internet



gaming websites and state lotteries. In addition, certain states
    have legalized, and others may legalize, casino gaming in
    specific areas. The continued proliferation of gaming venues
    could significantly and adversely affect our business. In
    particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near major
    metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract
    customers, such as New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco,
    Chicago and Boston, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business. The current global trend toward liberalization of
    gaming restrictions and the resulting proliferation of gaming
    venues could result in a decrease in the number of visitors to
    our Las Vegas facilities, by attracting customers close to home
    and away from Las Vegas, which could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Trade
    Show and Convention Facilities

Las Vegas generally competes with trade show and convention
    facilities located in and around major U.S. cities,
    including Atlanta, Chicago, New York and Orlando. Within Las
    Vegas, The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center compete
    with the LVCC, which is located off the Las Vegas Strip and
    currently has approximately 3.2 million gross square feet
    of convention and exhibit facilities. In addition to the LVCC,
    the Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino has nearly
    1.0 million square feet of convention space. The MGM Grand
    Hotel and Casino has a conference and meeting facility of
    approximately 881,000 square feet and the Mirage has
    approximately 170,000 gross square feet of meeting space.
    The Wynn Las Vegas Resort has 200,000 square feet of
    convention, meeting and reception space and plans to have
    additional convention space at its proposed Encore facility. The
    conference and meeting facilities at these hotel resorts are The
    Congress Center’s primary Las Vegas competition. Boyd
    Gaming Corporation’s Echelon Place is expected to include
    approximately 1.0 million square feet of convention and
    meeting space when it opens in 2010. The LVCC and the Mandalay
    Bay Convention Center are the primary competitors of The Sands
    Expo Center. A major expansion project for the LVCC is expected
    to be completed no earlier than 2010. We believe the LVCC
    expansion project will make it more competitive with private
    convention and meeting providers like us. To the extent that any
    of the competitors of The Venetian can offer a hotel/casino
    experience that is integrated with substantial trade show and
    convention, conference and meeting facilities, The
    Venetian’s competitive advantage in attracting trade show
    and convention, conference and meeting attendees could be
    adversely affected. In addition, other American cities are in
    the process of developing, or have announced plans to develop,
    convention center and other meeting, trade and exhibition
    facilities that may compete with ours.

The Macao
    Market

Introduction

Macao is regarded as one of the largest and fastest-growing
    gaming markets in the world. Macao benefits from being the only
    market in China to offer legalized casino gaming.

Macao
    as a Gaming and Resort Destination

In May 2004, The Sands Macao became the first Las Vegas-style
    casino to open in Macao. Our high-quality gaming product has
    enabled us to capture a meaningful share of the overall market,
    including the VIP player market segment, in Macao.

Gaming revenues in Macao in 2006 reached a record
    $6.98 billion, a 22.0% increase over 2005. Visits to Macao
    were up 17.6% in 2006, compared to 2005. According to Macao
    government statistics, during 2006, 48.6% of visitors traveling
    to Macao stayed overnight in hotels and guestrooms and, for
    those who stayed overnight in hotels and guestrooms, the average
    length of stay was only 1 or 2 nights. We expect this length of
    stay to increase with increased visitation, the expansion of
    gaming and non-gaming amenities including retail and
    entertainment offerings, and the addition of upscale hotel
    resort accommodations in Macao.

Table games are the dominant form of gaming in Asia. Baccarat is
    the most popular game, followed by other traditional U.S. and
    Asian games. Slot machines are offered in Macao, but they are
    few in number because the structure of the gaming market in
    Macao has historically favored table gaming. However, with the
    increase in the mass market gaming in Macao, this is changing
    and slot machines of international standards are becoming an
    important feature of the market. We expect the slot machine
    business to grow in Macao and we intend to continue to introduce
    more modern and popular products to appeal to the Asian
    marketplace.



We believe that as new facilities and standards of service are
    introduced, Macao will become an even more desirable tourist
    destination. The improved experience of visitors to Macao should
    lead to longer stays and an increased number of return trips
    from existing feeder markets and the opening of several new
    feeder markets. In addition, we believe that a wealthier Chinese
    middle class will lead to increased travel to Macao and generate
    increased demand for gaming entertainment and casino resort
    offerings. We also believe that the combination of less onerous
    travel restrictions, greater ability of Chinese citizens to
    bring renminbi (the Chinese currency) to Macao, increasing
    regional wealth and the opening of world-class facilities will
    convert Macao from primarily a day-trip market to a

multi-day

travel destination similar to Las Vegas, where the LVCVA
    estimates that the average visitor stays approximately three
    nights.

Proximity
    to Major Asian Cities

Approximately 1.0 billion people are estimated to live
    within a

three-hour

flight from Macao and approximately 3.0 billion people are
    estimated to live within a

five-hour

flight from Macao. According to Macao government statistics,
    86.0% of the tourists who visited Macao in 2006 came from Hong
    Kong or mainland China and the dominant feeder markets to Macao
    have been and continue to be Hong Kong and China. Although the
    absolute number of visitors from Hong Kong continues to grow,
    that market has shrunk as a percentage of the total visitor
    distribution from 67.2% in 1997 to 31.6% in 2006, while visitors
    from mainland China made up 54.5% of total visitors in 2006. The
    number of visitors from mainland China has exhibited significant
    growth from 1997 to 2006, with a 43.6% compound annual growth
    rate in the number of visitors for that period. Until recently,
    mainland Chinese were only permitted to visit Macao as part of a
    tour group. Now that these travel restrictions have eased for
    mainland Chinese from most urban centers and economically
    developed regions, individual travel to Macao is expected to
    increase, generating increased demand for casino offerings.

Gaming customers from Hong Kong, southeast China, Taiwan and
    other locations in Asia can reach Macao in a relatively short
    period of time, using a variety of methods of transportation,
    and visitors from more distant locations in Asia can take
    advantage of short travel times by air to Macao, Zhuhai,
    Shenzhen or to Hong Kong (followed by a road, ferry or
    helicopter trip to Macao). The relatively easy access from major
    population centers promotes Macao as a popular gaming
    destination in Asia.

Macao draws a significant number of gaming customers from both
    visitors and residents of Hong Kong. One of the major methods of
    transportation to Macao from Hong Kong is the jetfoil ferry
    service. Macao is also accessible from Hong Kong by helicopter.
    In addition, the proposed bridge linking Hong Kong, Macao and
    Zhuhai is expected to reduce the travel time between central
    Hong Kong and Macao. The bridge is expected be completed
    somewhere between 2011 and 2015.

Macao International Airport provides direct air service to many
    major cities in Asia, such as Manila, Singapore, Taipei,
    Bangkok, Beijing, Seoul and Shanghai, with links to numerous
    other major Asian destinations.

The Macao pataca and the Hong Kong dollar are linked to each
    other and, in many cases, are used interchangeably in Macao.
    However, currency exchange controls and restrictions on the
    export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact
    the success of our operations. For example, there are currently
    existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the
    export of the renminbi, the currency of China. In addition,
    restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow
    of gaming customers from China to Macao, inhibit the growth of
    gaming in Macao and negatively impact our gaming operations.

Competition
    in Macao

Gaming in Macao is administered through government-sanctioned
    concessions awarded to three different concessionaires. The
    Macao government is precluded by contract from granting any
    additional gaming concessions until 2009. In addition, the
    current laws only permit three gaming concessions, although
    future subconcessions are permitted. However, the laws could
    change and permit the Macao government to grant additional
    gaming concessions before 2009. If the Macao government were to
    allow additional competitors to operate in Macao through the
    grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face
    additional competition, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.



SJM holds one of the three concessions. SJM, controlled by
    Stanley Ho, currently operates 17 facilities throughout Macao.
    Historically, SJM was the only gaming operator in Macao, with
    over 40 years of operating experience in Macao. Many of its
    17 casinos are relatively small facilities that are offered as
    amenities in hotels, however a number are large operations
    enjoying significant recognition by gaming customers in the
    marketplace. SJM was obligated to invest at least approximately
    4.7 billion patacas (approximately $586.8 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) by
    March 31, 2009 under its concession agreement with the
    government of Macao. SJM’s projects include the Grand
    Lisboa, the upgrade of the Lisboa Hotel, Macao’s largest
    hotel which opened in February 2007, the Fisherman’s Wharf
    entertainment complex, which opened in December 2005, and other
    projects. In addition, MGM MIRAGE has entered into a joint
    venture agreement with Stanley Ho’s daughter, Pansy Ho
    Chiu-king, to develop, build and operate two major hotel casino
    resorts in Macao. Pursuant to this agreement, in April 2005, MGM
    Grand Paradise Limited, a joint venture between Pansy Ho
    Chiu-king and MGM MIRAGE, obtained a subconcession allowing it
    to conduct gaming operations in Macao. The MGM Grand Macau is
    scheduled to open in the fourth quarter of 2007. The resort will
    feature approximately 600 rooms, 345 table games, 1,035 slot
    machines, restaurants and entertainment amenities.

Galaxy Casino Company Limited (“Galaxy”) holds a
    concession and has the ability to operate casino properties
    independent of us. Galaxy is obligated to invest at least
    4.4 billion patacas (approximately $549.3 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) by June
    2012 under its concession agreement with the government of
    Macao. Galaxy currently operates five casinos in Macao.
    Galaxy’s StarWorld Hotel & Casino opened in
    October 2006. The property has over 500 hotel rooms and a
    140,000 square foot gaming floor with approximately 300
    table games and 370 slot machines.

Wynn Resorts (Macau), S.A. (“Wynn Macau”), a
    subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited, holds the third concession.
    Wynn Macau opened in September 2006 and includes an
    approximately 600 room hotel, a casino and other non-gaming
    amenities. Wynn Macau has announced plans to expand the property
    to include additional gaming space. In 2006, Wynn Macau sold its
    subconcession right under its gaming concession to an affiliate
    of Publishing and Broadcasting Limited (“PBL”) for
    $900.0 million. The subconcession right permits the PBL
    affiliate to receive a gaming subconcession from the Macao
    government.

We will also face competition from casinos located in other
    areas of Asia, such as the major gaming and resort destination
    Genting Highlands Resort, located outside of Kuala Lumpur,
    Malaysia and casinos in South Korea and the Philippines, as well
    as pachinko and pachislot parlors in Japan. We will also
    encounter competition from other major gaming centers located
    around the world, such as Australia, New Zealand and Las Vegas,
    and cruise ships that offer gaming.

Advertising
    and Marketing

We advertise in many types of media, including television,
    radio, newspapers, magazines and billboards, to promote general
    market awareness of The Venetian as a unique vacation, business
    and convention destination due to our first-class hotel, casino,
    retail stores, restaurants and other amenities. The Sands Macao
    also provides advertising and direct marketing of its casino. We
    actively engage in direct marketing, which is targeted at
    specific market segments, including the premium slot and table
    games markets.

Regulation
    and Licensing

State
    of Nevada

The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the
    State of Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and
    the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the
    “Nevada Act”) and various local regulations. Our
    gaming operations are also subject to the licensing and
    regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the
    “Nevada Commission”), the Nevada Gaming Control Board
    (the “Nevada Board”) and the Clark County Liquor and
    Gaming Licensing Board (the “CCLGLB” and together with
    the Nevada Commission and the Nevada Board, the “Nevada
    Gaming Authorities”).



The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada
    Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy
    that are concerned with, among other things:

•

the prevention of unsavory or unsuitable persons from having a
    direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any
    capacity;

•

the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting
    practices and procedures;

•

the maintenance of effective controls over the financial
    practices of licensees, including the establishment of minimum
    procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of
    assets and revenues, providing reliable record-keeping and
    requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities;

•

the prevention of cheating and fraudulent practices; and

•

the establishment of a source of state and local revenues
    through taxation and licensing fees.

Any change in such laws, regulations and procedures could have
    an adverse effect on our gaming operations or on the operation
    of The Venetian and The Palazzo.

Las Vegas Sands, LLC is licensed by the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities to operate The Venetian. The gaming license requires
    the periodic payment of fees and taxes and is not transferable.
    Las Vegas Sands, LLC is also registered as an intermediary
    company of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC. Venetian Casino Resort,
    LLC is licensed as a manufacturer and distributor of gaming
    devices. Las Vegas Sands, LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
    are collectively referred to as the “licensed
    subsidiaries.” Las Vegas Sands Corp. is registered with the
    Nevada Commission as a publicly-traded corporation (the
    “registered corporation”). As such, we must
    periodically submit detailed financial and operating reports to
    the Nevada Gaming Authorities and furnish any other information
    that the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require. No person may
    become a stockholder of, or receive any percentage of the
    profits from the licensed subsidiaries without first obtaining
    licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities.
    Additionally, the CCLGLB has taken the position that it has the
    authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock
    of any corporation controlling a gaming licensee. We and the
    licensed subsidiaries possess all state and local government
    registrations, approvals, permits and licenses required in order
    for us to engage in gaming activities at The Venetian. We will
    apply for all state and local government registrations,
    approvals, permits and licenses that may be required in order
    for us to engage in gaming activities at The Palazzo.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who
    has a material relationship to or material involvement with us
    or the licensed subsidiaries to determine whether such
    individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business
    associate of a gaming licensee. Officers, directors and certain
    key employees of the licensed subsidiaries must file
    applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and may be
    required to be licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Our
    officers, directors and key employees who are actively and
    directly involved in the gaming activities of the licensed
    subsidiaries may be required to be licensed or found suitable by
    the Nevada Gaming Authorities.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for
    licensing or a finding of suitability for any cause they deem
    reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing;
    both require submission of detailed personal and financial
    information followed by a thorough investigation. The applicant
    for licensing or a finding of suitability, or the gaming
    licensee by whom the applicant is employed or for whom the
    applicant serves, must pay all the costs of the investigation.
    Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada
    Gaming Authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny
    an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the
    Nevada Gaming Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a
    change in a corporate position.

If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer,
    director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or to have an
    inappropriate relationship with us or the licensed subsidiaries,
    we would have to sever all relationships with such person. In
    addition, the Nevada Commission may require us or the licensed
    subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any person who
    refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of
    suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject
    to judicial review in Nevada.



We and the licensed subsidiaries are required to submit periodic
    detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada
    Commission. Substantially all of our and our licensed
    subsidiaries’ material loans, leases, sales of securities
    and similar financing transactions must be reported to or
    approved by the Nevada Commission.

If it were determined that we or a licensed subsidiary violated
    the Nevada Act, the registration and gaming licenses we then
    hold could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked,
    subject to compliance with certain statutory and regulatory
    procedures. In addition, we and the persons involved could be
    subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the
    Nevada Act at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Further,
    a supervisor could be appointed by the Nevada Commission to
    operate the casinos, and, under certain circumstances, earnings
    generated during the supervisor’s appointment (except for
    the reasonable rental value of the casinos) could be forfeited
    to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension
    of any gaming registration or license or the appointment of a
    supervisor could (and revocation of any gaming license would)
    materially adversely affect our gaming operations.

Any beneficial holder of our voting securities, regardless of
    the number of shares owned, may be required to file an
    application, be investigated, and have its suitability as a
    beneficial holder of our voting securities determined if the
    Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such ownership
    would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of
    the State of Nevada. The applicant must pay all costs of
    investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in
    conducting any such investigation.

The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of
    our voting securities to report the acquisition to the Nevada
    Commission. The Nevada Act requires that beneficial owners of
    more than 10% of our voting securities apply to the Nevada
    Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after
    the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice
    requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an
    “institutional investor” as defined in the Nevada Act,
    which acquires more than 10% but not more than 15% of our voting
    securities, may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of
    such finding of suitability if such institutional investor holds
    the voting securities only for investment purposes.

An institutional investor will be deemed to hold voting
    securities only for investment purposes if it acquires and holds
    the voting securities in the ordinary course of business as an
    institutional investment and not for the purpose of causing,
    directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the
    members of our board of directors, any change in our corporate
    charter, by-laws, management, policies or our operations or any
    of our gaming affiliates, or any other action which the Nevada
    Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding our voting
    securities only for investment purposes. Activities that are
    deemed consistent with holding voting securities only for
    investment purposes include:

•

voting on all matters voted on by stockholders;

•

making financial and other inquiries of management of the type
    normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes
    and not to cause a change in management, policies or
    operations; and

•

such other activities as the Nevada Commission may determine to
    be consistent with such investment intent.

If the beneficial holder of voting securities who must be found
    suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit
    detailed business and financial information including a list of
    beneficial owners. If the beneficial holder of nonvoting
    securities who must be licensed or found suitable is a
    corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed
    business and financial information including a list of
    beneficial owners. The applicant is required to pay all costs of
    investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
    suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered
    to do so by the Nevada Commission or the Chairman of the Nevada
    Board may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a
    record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to
    identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable
    and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership
    of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond such
    period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may
    be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary
    action if, after we receive notice that a person is



unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship
    with us or a licensed subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed
    subsidiaries:

•

allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any
    voting right conferred through securities held by that person;

•

pay remuneration in any form to that person for services
    rendered or otherwise; or

•

fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable
    person to relinquish his or her voting securities for cash at
    fair market value.

Our charter documents include provisions intended to help us
    comply with these requirements.

The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder
    of any debt security of a registered corporation to file an
    application, be investigated and be found suitable to own the
    debt security of such registered corporation. If the Nevada
    Commission determines that a person is unsuitable to own such
    security, then pursuant to the Nevada Act, the registered
    corporation can be sanctioned, including the loss of its
    approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada
    Commission, it:

•

pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest, or any
    distribution whatsoever;

•

recognizes any voting right by such unsuitable person in
    connection with such securities;

•

pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or

•

makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal,
    redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar
    transaction.

We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada
    that may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any
    time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a
    nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the
    identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities and we are also required to disclose the identity of
    the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure
    to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record
    holder unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum
    assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner.
    The Nevada Commission has the power to require our stock
    certificates to bear a legend indicating that such securities
    are subject to the Nevada Act. However, to date the Nevada
    Commission has not imposed such a requirement on us.

We cannot make a public offering of any securities without the
    prior approval of the Nevada Commission if the securities or the
    proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct,
    acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or
    extend obligations incurred for such purposes. On
    November 16, 2006, the Nevada Commission granted us prior
    approval to make public offerings for a period of two years,
    subject to certain conditions (the “shelf approval”).
    The shelf approval includes prior approval by the Nevada
    Commission permitting us to place restrictions on the transfer
    of the membership interests and to enter into agreements not to
    encumber the membership interests of Las Vegas Sands, LLC.
    However, the shelf approval may be rescinded for good cause
    without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop
    order by the Chairman of the Nevada Board. The shelf approval
    does not constitute a finding, recommendation, or approval by
    the Nevada Commission or the Nevada Board as to the investment
    merits of any securities offered under the shelf approval. Any
    representation to the contrary is unlawful.

Changes in our control through a merger, consolidation, stock or
    asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement, or any
    act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control,
    shall not occur without the prior approval of the Nevada
    Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered
    corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada
    Commission concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to
    assuming control of such registered corporation. The Nevada
    Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers,
    directors and other persons having a material relationship or
    involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be
    investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the
    transaction.

The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate
    acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting
    securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming
    licensees, and registered corporations that



are affiliated with those operations, may be injurious to stable
    and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has
    established a regulatory scheme to ameliorate the potentially
    adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada’s
    gaming industry and to further Nevada’s policy to:

•

assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and
    their affiliates;

•

preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the
    corporate form; and

•

promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of
    corporate affairs.

Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the
    Nevada Commission before we can make exceptional repurchases of
    voting securities above the current market price thereof and
    before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be
    consummated.

The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of
    recapitalization proposed by the board of directors in response
    to a tender offer made directly to the registered
    corporation’s stockholders for the purposes of acquiring
    control of the registered corporation.

License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending upon
    the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the
    State of Nevada and to Clark County, Nevada. Depending upon the
    particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable
    either monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon:

•

a percentage of the gross revenues received;

•

the number of gaming devices operated; or

•

the number of table games operated.

The tax on gross revenues received is generally 6.75%. In
    addition, an excise tax is paid by us on charges for admission
    to any facility where certain forms of live entertainment are
    provided. Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, is also required to pay
    certain fees and taxes to the State of Nevada as a licensed
    manufacturer and distributor.

Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered,
    required to be registered, or under common control with such
    persons (collectively, “licensees”), and who proposes
    to become involved in a gaming operation outside of Nevada, is
    required to deposit with the Nevada Board, and thereafter
    maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the
    expenses of any investigation by the Nevada Board into their
    participation in such foreign gaming operation. The revolving
    fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the
    Nevada Commission. Thereafter, licensees are also required to
    comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada
    Act. Licensees are also subject to disciplinary action by the
    Nevada Commission if they knowingly violate any laws of any
    foreign jurisdiction pertaining to such foreign gaming
    operation, fail to conduct such foreign gaming operation in
    accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required
    of Nevada gaming operations, engage in activities that are
    harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming
    taxes and fees, or employ a person in such foreign operation who
    has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada
    on the ground of personal unsuitability or who has been found
    guilty of cheating at gambling.

The sale of alcoholic beverages by the licensed subsidiaries on
    the casino premises and The Sands Expo Center is subject to
    licensing, control and regulation by the applicable local
    authorities. Our licensed subsidiaries have obtained the
    necessary liquor licenses to sell alcoholic beverages. All
    licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies
    involved have full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke
    any such licenses, and any such disciplinary action could (and
    revocation of such licenses would) have a material adverse
    effect upon our operations.

Commonwealth
    of Pennsylvania

Sands Bethworks Gaming is subject to the rules and regulations
    promulgated by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board
    (“PaGCB”).

In December 2005, we submitted a proposal to obtain one of two
    category 2 “at large” gaming licenses available in
    Pennsylvania. When the applications were considered by the PaGCB
    in December 2006, there were five applicants for the two
    “at large” licenses. On December 20, 2006, we
    were awarded one of the licenses and a



location in the Pocono Mountains was awarded the other category
    2 “at large” license. On the same day, two category 2
    licenses were awarded to applicants for locations in
    Philadelphia, one category 2 license was awarded to an applicant
    in Pittsburgh, and six race tracks were awarded permanent
    category 1 licenses. The principal difference between category 1
    and category 2 licenses is that the former is available only to
    certain race tracks. A category 1 or category 2 licensee is
    authorized to open with up to 3,000 slot machines and to
    increase to up to 5,000 slot machines upon approval of the
    PaGCB, which may not take effect earlier than six months after
    opening. Although the PaGCB announced the award of our license
    on December 20, 2006, we have not been issued the license
    because the PaGCB stated that the license would not be issued
    until all appeals were decided. To date, one of the unsuccessful
    applicants for a category 2 “at large” license has
    announced its intention to file an appeal, which will be heard
    by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. Issuance of the license
    requires, among other things, the payment of a
    $50.0 million license fee. Just prior to opening of Sands
    Bethworks, we will be required to make a deposit of
    $5.0 million to cover weekly withdrawals of our appropriate
    share of the cost of regulation and the amount withdrawn must be
    replenished weekly.

We must notify the PaGCB if we become aware of any proposed or
    contemplated change of more than 5% of the ownership interests
    of Sands Bethworks Gaming or of more than 5% of the ownership
    interests of any entity that owns, directly or indirectly, at
    least 20% of Sands Bethworks Gaming, including Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. The acquisition of more than 20% of the ownership
    interests of Sands Bethworks Gaming or of any entity that owns,
    directly or indirectly, at least 20% of Sands Bethworks Gaming
    would be defined as a change of control under applicable
    Pennsylvania gaming law and regulations. Upon a change of
    control, the acquirer of the ownership interests would be
    required to qualify for licensure and to pay a new license fee
    of $50.0 million. The PaGCB retains the discretion to
    eliminate the need for qualification and may reduce the license
    fee upon a change of control. Any acquirer of membership
    interests in connection with a change of control that is found
    to be not qualified for licensure must divest its acquired
    interests within 120 days or the time period specified by
    the PaGCB.

Macao
    Concession and Our Subconcession

In June 2002, the Macao government granted a concession to
    operate casinos in Macao to Galaxy. Galaxy was one of three
    entities to be granted a casino license in Macao. During
    December 2002, we entered into a subconcession agreement with
    Galaxy, which was approved by the Macao government. The
    subconcession agreement allows us to develop and operate certain
    casino projects in Macao, including The Sands Macao and The
    Venetian Macao separately from Galaxy. Under the subconcession
    agreement, we are obligated to develop and open The Venetian
    Macao and a convention center by December 2007. We are also
    obligated to operate casino games of chance or games of other
    forms in Macao and to invest, or cause to be invested, at least
    4.4 billion patacas (approximately $549.3 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) in
    various development projects in Macao by June 2009. We have been
    informed by the Macao government that the construction and
    development costs of The Sands Macao can be applied to the
    fulfillment of this total investment obligation. As a result, as
    of December 31, 2005, we had invested the required amounts.
    We are currently scheduled to open The Venetian Macao in summer
    2007. If we fail to meet the December 2007 deadline under our
    subconcession, the Macao government has the right, after
    consultation with our concessionaire, Galaxy, to unilaterally
    terminate our subconcession to operate The Sands Macao or any of
    our other casino operations in Macao, without compensation to
    us. If this occurs, we may lose our right to continue to operate
    The Sands Macao and our investment to date in the construction
    of The Venetian Macao. See “— Risk
    Factors — Risks Related to Our Business —
    There are significant risks associated with our planned
    construction projects, which could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from
    these planned facilities”

If the Galaxy concession is terminated for any reason, the
    subconcession will remain in effect. The subconcession may be
    terminated by agreement between ourselves and Galaxy. Galaxy is
    not entitled to terminate the subconcession unilaterally.
    However, the Macao government, with the consent of Galaxy, may
    terminate the subconcession under certain circumstances. Galaxy
    will develop hotel and casino projects separately from us. In
    October 2006, Galaxy opened its StarWorld Hotel &
    Casino in Macao. The property has over 500 hotel rooms and a
    140,000 square foot gaming floor with approximately 300
    table games and 370 slot machines.

We are subject to licensing and control under applicable Macao
    law. We are required to be licensed by the Macao gaming
    authorities to operate a casino. We must pay periodic fees and
    taxes, and our gaming license is not



transferable. We must periodically submit detailed financial and
    operating reports to the Macao gaming authorities and furnish
    any other information that the Macao gaming authorities may
    require. No person may acquire any rights over the shares or
    assets of VML without first obtaining the approval of the Macao
    gaming authorities. Similarly, no person may enter into
    possession of its premises or operate them through a management
    agreement or any other contract or through step in rights
    without first obtaining the approval of, and receiving a license
    from, the Macao gaming authorities. The transfer or creation of
    encumbrances over ownership of shares representing the share
    capital of VML or other rights relating to such shares, and any
    act involving the granting of voting rights or other
    stockholders’ rights to persons other than the original
    owners, would require the approval of the Macao government and
    the subsequent report of such acts and transactions to the Macao
    gaming authorities.

Our subconcession agreement requires approval of the Macao
    government for transfers of shares, or of any rights over such
    shares, in any of the direct or indirect stockholders in VML,
    including us, provided that such shares or rights are directly
    or indirectly equivalent to an amount that is equal or higher
    than 5% of the share capital in VML. This approval requirement
    will not apply, however, if the securities are listed and
    tradable on a stock market. In addition, this agreement requires
    that the Macao government be given notice of the creation of any
    encumbrance or the grant of voting rights or other
    stockholder’s rights to persons other than the original
    owners on shares in any of the direct or indirect stockholders
    in VML, including us, provided that such shares or rights are
    indirectly equivalent to an amount that is equal or higher than
    5% of the share capital in VML. This notice requirement will not
    apply, however, to securities listed and tradable on a stock
    exchange.

The Macao gaming authorities may investigate any individual who
    has a material relationship to, or material involvement with, us
    to determine whether our suitability

and/or

financial capacity is affected by this individual. Our
    shareholders with 5% or more of the share capital, directors and
    some of our key employees must apply for and undergo a finding
    of suitability process and maintain due qualification during the
    subconcession term, and accept the persistent and long-term
    inspection and supervision exercised by the Macao government.
    VML is required to immediately notify the Macao government
    should VML become aware of any fact that may be material to the
    appropriate qualification of any shareholder who owns 5% of the
    share capital, or any director or key employee. Changes in
    licensed positions must be reported to the Macao gaming
    authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny an
    application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the Macao
    gaming authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in
    corporate position. If the Macao gaming authorities were to find
    one of our officers, directors or key employees unsuitable for
    licensing, we would have to sever all relationships with that
    person. In addition, the Macao gaming authorities may require us
    to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file
    appropriate applications.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
    suitability after being ordered to do so by the Macao gaming
    authorities may be found unsuitable. Any stockholder found
    unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial
    ownership of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond
    the period of time prescribed by the Macao gaming authorities
    may lose his rights to the shares. We will be subject to
    disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is
    unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship
    with us, we:

•

pay that person any dividend or interest upon its shares;

•

allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any
    voting right conferred through shares held by that person;

•

pay remuneration in any form to that person for services
    rendered or otherwise; or

•

fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require that unsuitable
    person to relinquish its shares.

The Macao gaming authorities also have the authority to approve
    all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation
    holding a gaming license.

The Macao gaming authorities also require prior approval for the
    creation of liens and encumbrances over VML’s assets and
    restrictions on stock in connection with any financing.

The Macao gaming authorities must give their prior approval to
    changes in control of VML through a merger, consolidation, stock
    or asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement or any
    act or conduct by any person



whereby he or she obtains control. Entities seeking to acquire
    control of a registered corporation must satisfy the Macao
    gaming authorities concerning a variety of stringent standards
    prior to assuming control. The Macao Gaming Commission may also
    require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other
    persons having a material relationship or involvement with the
    entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated and
    licensed as part of the approval process of the transaction.

The Macao gaming authorities may consider that some management
    opposition to corporate acquisitions, repurchases of voting
    securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Macao gaming
    licensees, and registered corporations that are affiliated with
    those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive
    corporate gaming.

The Macao gaming authorities also have the power to supervise
    gaming licensees in order to:

•

assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and
    their affiliates;

•

preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the
    corporate form; and

•

promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of
    corporate affairs.

The subconcession agreement requires the Macao gaming
    authorities’ prior approval of any recapitalization plan
    proposed by VML’s board of directors. The Chief Executive
    of Macao could also require VML to increase its share capital if
    he deemed it necessary.

Non-compliance with these obligations could lead to the
    revocation of VML’s gaming subconcession.

The Sands Macao was constructed and is operated, and The
    Venetian Macao Hotel Resort Casino is being constructed and will
    be operated, under our subconcession agreement. This
    subconcession excludes the following gaming activities: mutual
    bets, lotteries, raffles, interactive gaming and games of chance
    or other gaming, betting or gambling activities on ships or
    planes. Our subconcession is exclusively governed by Macao law.
    We are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of
    Macao in case of any potential dispute or conflict relating to
    our subconcession.

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022.
    Unless our subconcession is extended, on that date, all our
    casino operations and related equipment in Macao will
    automatically be transferred to the Macao government without
    compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues
    from these operations. Beginning on June 27, 2017, the
    Macao government may redeem our subconcession by giving us at
    least one year prior notice and by paying us fair compensation
    or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will
    be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during
    the tax year prior to the redemption. See “Risk
    Factors — Risks Associated with Our International
    Operations — We will stop generating any revenues from
    our Macao gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of
    our subconcession in 2022 or if the Macao government exercises
    its redemption right at any time beginning on December 26,
    2017.”

The Macao government also has the right, after consultation, to
    unilaterally terminate, without compensation to us, the
    subconcession at any time upon the occurrence of specified
    events of default. See “Risk Factors — Risks
    Associated with Our International Operations — The
    Macao government can terminate our subconcession under certain
    circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.” The subconcession agreement does
    not provide a specific cure period within which any such events
    of default may be cured. We must rely on consultations and
    negotiations with the Macao government to give us an opportunity
    to remedy any such default. Accordingly, we are dependent on our
    continuing communications and good faith negotiations with the
    Macao government to ensure that we are performing our
    obligations under the subconcession in a manner that would avoid
    a default thereunder.

The subconcession agreement contains various general covenants
    and obligations and other provisions, the compliance with which
    is subjective. We have the following obligations under the
    subconcession agreement:

•

ensure the proper operation and conduct of casino games;

•

employ people with appropriate qualifications;



•

operate and conduct casino games of chance in a fair and honest
    manner without the influence of criminal activities; and

•

safeguard and ensure Macao’s interests in tax revenue from
    the operation of casinos and other gaming areas.

In addition, the subconcession agreement requires us to maintain
    a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to satisfy these
    requirements could result in a default under the subconcession.
    We are also subject to certain reporting requirements in Macao,
    including to the Macao Gambling Inspection and Coordination
    Bureau.

Under the subconcession, we are obligated to pay to the Macao
    government an annual premium with a fixed portion and a variable
    portion based on the number and type of gaming tables employed
    and gaming machines operated by us. The fixed portion of the
    premium is equal to 30.0 million patacas (approximately
    $3.7 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2006). The variable portion is equal to
    300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for
    certain kinds of games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming
    table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical or
    mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines
    (approximately $37,454, $18,727 and $125, respectively, at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006), subject to
    a minimum of 45.0 million patacas (or $5.6 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006). We also
    have to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenues
    and applicable withholding taxes. We must also contribute 4% of
    our gross gaming revenue to utilities designated by the Macao
    government, a portion of which must be used for promotion of
    tourism in Macao. This percentage will be subject to change in
    2010.

Currently, the gaming tax in Macao is calculated as a percentage
    of gross gaming revenue. However, unlike Nevada, gross gaming
    revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a
    result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macao and are
    unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we have
    to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we
    were unable to collect on the related receivables from them. We
    are currently offering credit to customers in Macao on a very
    limited basis. If the laws are not changed, our business in
    Macao may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending
    credit to our customers. Although there are proposals to revise
    the gaming tax laws in Macao, there can be no assurance that the
    laws will be changed.

We have received an exemption from Macao’s corporate income
    tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games of
    chance for the five-year period ending December 31, 2008.
    See “Risk Factors — Risks Associated with Our
    International Operations — We are currently not
    required to pay corporate income taxes on our casino gaming
    operations in Macao. This tax exemption expires at the end of
    2008.”

Employees

We directly employ approximately 6,300 employees in connection
    with The Venetian, approximately 180 employees in connection
    with The Sands Expo Center and approximately 8,800 employees in
    connection with The Sands Macao. In addition, we hire temporary
    employees on an as needed basis at The Venetian. The
    Venetian’s employees are not covered by collective
    bargaining agreements. Most, but not all, major casino resorts
    situated on the Las Vegas Strip have collective bargaining
    contracts covering at least some of the labor force at such
    sites. We believe that we have good relations with our employees.

The unions currently on the Las Vegas Strip include Local 226
    Culinary, Workers Union of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant
    Employees International Union, the Operating Engineers Union and
    the Teamsters Union. Prior to and since the opening of The
    Venetian, Local 226 has requested that we recognize it as the
    bargaining agent for employees of The Venetian. We have declined
    to do so, believing that current and future employees are
    entitled to select their own bargaining agent, if any. In the
    past, when other hotel-casino operators have taken a similar
    position, Local 226 has engaged in certain confrontational and
    obstructive tactics, including contacting potential customers,
    tenants, and investors, objecting to various administrative
    approvals and picketing. Local 226 has engaged in these types of
    tactics with respect to The Venetian and may continue to do so.
    Although we believe we will be able to operate despite such
    dispute, no assurance can be given that we will be able to do so
    or that the failure to do so would not result in a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows. Although no assurances can be given, if employees
    decide to be represented by labor unions, management does not
    believe that such representation would have a material impact
    upon our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.



We are not aware of any union activity at The Sands Macao.

Certain culinary personnel are hired from time to time for trade
    shows and conventions at The Sands Expo Center and are covered
    under a collective bargaining agreement between Local 226 and
    The Sands Expo Center. This collective bargaining agreement
    expired in December 2000. As a result, The Sands Expo Center is
    operating under the terms of the expired bargaining agreement
    with respect to these employees.

Intellectual
    Property

Our principal intellectual property consists of, among others,
    the “Sands,” “Venetian,” “Palazzo”
    and “Paiza” trademarks, all of which have been
    registered in various classes in the United States. In addition,
    we have also applied to register the marks “Cotai
    Strip,” “Macau Strip,” and “Asia’s Las
    Vegas,” among others, in connection with our development
    projects in Macao and other marks in connection with our
    Singapore and Pennsylvania projects. We have also registered

and/or

applied to register many of our trademarks in various foreign
    jurisdictions. These trademarks are brand names under which we
    market our properties and services. We consider these brand
    names to be important to our business since they have the effect
    of developing brand identification. We believe that the name
    recognition, reputation and image that we have developed attract
    customers to our facilities. Once granted, our trademark
    registrations are of perpetual duration so long as they are
    periodically renewed. It is our intent to maintain our trademark
    registrations.

Agreements
    Relating to the Malls

The
    Grand Canal Shops Mall Sale and Lease Agreement

On April 12, 2004, we entered into an agreement with GGP to
    sell The Grand Canal Shops mall and lease to GGP certain
    restaurant and other retail space at the casino level of The
    Venetian for approximately $766.0 million. We completed the
    sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall on May 17, 2004. In
    addition, on the same date we leased to GGP 19 spaces on the
    casino level of The Venetian currently occupied by various
    retail and restaurant tenants for 89 years with annual rent
    of one dollar per year, and GGP assumed our interest as landlord
    under the various space leases associated with these 19 spaces.
    In addition, on the same date we agreed with GGP to:

•

continue to be obligated to fulfill certain lease termination
    and asset purchase agreements;

•

lease the Blue Man Group Theater space located within The Grand
    Canal Shops mall from GGP for a period of 25 years, subject
    to an additional 50 years of extension options, with
    initial fixed minimum rent of $3.3 million per year;

•

lease the gondola retail store and the canal space located
    within The Grand Canal Shops mall from GGP for a period of
    25 years, subject to an additional 50 years of
    extension options, with initial fixed minimum rent of
    $3.5 million per year; and

•

lease certain office space from GGP for a period of
    10 years, subject to an additional 65 years of
    extension options, with initial annual rent of $0.9 million.

The lease payments relating to the Blue Man Group Theater, the
    canal space within The Grand Canal Shops mall and the office
    space from GGP are subject to automatic increases of 5% in the
    sixth lease year and each subsequent fifth lease year.

Development
    Agreement

A subsidiary of The Palazzo and GGP entered into a development
    agreement whereby The Palazzo subsidiary agreed to construct the
    Phase II mall, and GGP agreed to buy 100% of the membership
    interests in Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, which will own
    the Phase II mall when it opens, on the terms described
    below. The Palazzo subsidiary has assigned substantially all of
    its obligations under the development agreement to Phase II
    Mall Holding, LLC, but has agreed to remain jointly and
    severally liable to GGP for all such obligations. The Palazzo



subsidiary agreed to substantially complete construction of the
    Phase II mall (subject to

force majeure

and certain
    other delays) no later than the earlier of:

•

36 months after the date when The Palazzo subsidiary
    receives sufficient permits to begin construction of the
    Phase II mall; and

•

March 1, 2008.

In the event that the Phase II mall is not substantially
    completed on or before the stated date, GGP is entitled to
    receive liquidated damages in the amount of $5,000 per day
    for the first six months and $10,000 per day for an
    additional six months after the completion deadline has passed.
    If substantial completion has not occurred on or before one year
    after the above deadline, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC and
    The Palazzo subsidiary will be jointly and severally obligated
    to pay GGP liquidated damages in the amount of
    $100.0 million.

In the event that Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, and The
    Palazzo subsidiary comply with all of their obligations under
    the development agreement and GGP fails to acquire the
    membership interests in the entity owning the Phase II
    mall, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC will be entitled to:

•

sue GGP for specific performance;

•

liquidated damages in the amount of $100.0 million; or

•

purchase the interest of GGP in The Grand Canal Shops mall for
    (a) the lesser of (i) $766.0 million and
    (ii) the fair market value minus
    (b) $100.0 million.

The purchase price that GGP has agreed to pay for the
    Phase II mall is the greater of
    (i) $250.0 million and (ii) the Phase II
    mall’s net operating income for months 19 through 30 of its
    operations (assuming that the rent due from all tenants in month
    30 was actually due in each of months 19 through
    30) divided by a capitalization rate. The capitalization
    rate is 0.06 for every dollar of net operating income up to
    $38.0 million and 0.08 for every dollar of net operating
    income above $38.0 million. On the date the Phase II
    mall opens to the public, GGP will be obligated to make an
    initial purchase price payment based on projected net operating
    income for the first 12 months of operations (but in no
    event less than $250.0 million). Every six months
    thereafter until the 24 month anniversary of the opening
    date, the required purchase price will be adjusted (up or down,
    but never to less than $250.0 million) based on projected
    net operating income for the upcoming 12 months. The
    “final” purchase price adjustment (subject to audit
    thereafter) will be made on the

30-month

anniversary of the Phase II mall’s opening date and
    will be based on the formula described in the first two
    sentences of this paragraph. For all purchase price and purchase
    price adjustment calculations, “net operating income”
    will be calculated by using the “accrual” method of
    accounting and, for purposes of calculating the final purchase
    price adjustment, by applying the base rent payable by all
    tenants in the last month of the applicable

12-month

period to the entire

12-month

period.

Disputes under the development agreement will be resolved by
    arbitration or an independent expert selected by the parties.

Cooperation
    Agreement

Our business plan calls for each of The Venetian, The Congress
    Center, The Grand Canal Shops mall, The Sands Expo Center, The
    Palazzo and the Phase II mall, though separately owned, to
    be integrally related components of one facility. In
    establishing the terms for the integrated operation of these
    components, the cooperation agreement sets forth agreements
    regarding, among other things, encroachments, easements,
    operating standards, maintenance requirements, insurance
    requirements, casualty and condemnation, joint marketing, the
    construction of The Palazzo, and the sharing of some facilities
    and related costs. Subject to applicable law, the cooperation
    agreement binds all current and future owners of The Sands Expo
    Center, The Venetian, The Grand Canal Shops mall, The Palazzo,
    The Congress Center and the Phase II mall, and has priority
    over the liens securing Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s amended and
    restated senior secured credit facility (the “Senior
    Secured Credit Facility”) and any liens securing any
    indebtedness of The Grand Canal Shops mall, The Sands Expo
    Center, The Palazzo or Phase II mall. Accordingly, subject
    to applicable law, the obligations in the cooperation agreement
    will “run with the land” if any of the components
    change hands. Although certain of the provisions in the
    cooperation agreement apply only to The Sands Expo Center, The
    Venetian and The Grand Canal Shops mall, it is contemplated that
    similar



provisions will be added to the cooperation agreement with
    respect to The Palazzo and the Phase II mall prior to their
    opening.

Operating Covenants.

The cooperation agreement
    regulates certain aspects of the operation of The Sands Expo
    Center, The Grand Canal Shops mall and The Venetian. For
    example, under the cooperation agreement, we are obligated to
    operate The Venetian continuously and to use it exclusively in
    accordance with standards of first-class Las Vegas
    Boulevard-style hotels and casinos. We are also obligated to
    operate and to use The Sands Expo Center exclusively in
    accordance with standards of first-class convention, trade show
    and exposition centers. The owner of The Grand Canal Shops mall
    is obligated to operate The Grand Canal Shops mall exclusively
    in accordance with standards of first-class restaurant and
    retail complexes. For so long as The Venetian is operated in
    accordance with a “Venetian” theme, the owner of The
    Grand Canal Shops mall must operate The Grand Canal Shops mall
    in accordance with the overall Venetian theme.

Maintenance and Repair.

We must maintain The
    Venetian as well as some common areas and common facilities that
    are to be shared with The Grand Canal Shops mall. The cost of
    maintenance of all shared common areas and common facilities is
    to be shared between us and the owner of The Grand Canal Shops
    mall. We must also maintain, repair, and restore The Sands Expo
    Center and certain common areas and common facilities located in
    The Sands Expo Center. The owner of The Grand Canal Shops mall
    must maintain, repair, and restore The Grand Canal Shops mall
    and certain common areas and common facilities located in The
    Grand Canal Shops mall.

Insurance.

We and the owner of The Grand Canal
    Shops mall must also maintain minimum types and levels of
    insurance, including property damage, general liability and
    business interruption insurance. The cooperation agreement
    establishes an insurance trustee to assist in the implementation
    of the insurance requirements.

Parking.

The cooperation agreement also
    addresses issues relating to the use of The Venetian’s
    parking facilities, the use of parking facilities planned in
    connection with The Palazzo and easements for access. The
    Venetian, The Grand Canal Shops mall and The Sands Expo Center
    may use the parking spaces in The Venetian’s parking garage
    on a “first come, first served” basis, as long as each
    property retains use of sufficient spaces to comply with
    specified minimum parking standards. This means that each
    property shall have the right to use, at a minimum, sufficient
    spaces to comply with applicable laws and to conduct its
    business as permitted under the cooperation agreement. The
    Venetian’s parking garage is owned, maintained, and
    operated by us, with the proportionately allocated operating
    costs billed to the owner of The Grand Canal Shops mall. After
    the completion of the parking garage to be built in connection
    with The Palazzo, The Venetian, The Grand Canal Shops mall, The
    Sands Expo Center and, when completed, the Phase II mall
    will have the right to use The Palazzo parking garage, with the
    operating costs proportionately allocated among each facility.
    Each party to the cooperation agreement has granted to the
    others non-exclusive easements and rights to use the roadways
    and walkways on each other’s properties for vehicular and
    pedestrian access to the parking garages.

Utility Easement.

All property owners have
    also granted each other all appropriate and necessary easement
    rights to utility lines servicing The Venetian, The Grand Canal
    Shops mall, The Palazzo, the Phase II mall and The Sands
    Expo Center.

Consents, Approvals and Disputes.

If any
    current or future party to the cooperation agreement has a
    consent or approval right or has discretion to act or refrain
    from acting, the consent or approval of such party will only be
    granted and action will be taken or not taken only if a
    commercially reasonable owner would do so and such consent,
    approval, action or inaction would not have a material adverse
    effect on the property owned by such property owner. The
    cooperation agreement provides for the appointment of an
    independent expert to resolve some disputes between the parties,
    as well as for expedited arbitration for other disputes.

Sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall by GGP.

We
    have a right of first offer in connection with any proposed sale
    of The Grand Canal Shops mall by GGP. We also have the right to
    receive notice of any default of GGP sent by its mortgagee, if
    any, and the right to cure such default subject to our meeting
    certain net worth tests.

HVAC
    Services Agreement and Related Documents

Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas, LLC, a subsidiary of Thermal Western
    Holdings, Inc., is the heating, ventilation and air conditioning
    (“HVAC”) provider to The Venetian, The Sands Expo
    Center, Venezia tower and The Palazzo



(collectively referred to as the “Property”). Thermal
    energy (i.e., heating and air conditioning) is provided to the
    Property by the HVAC provider using certain heating and air
    conditioning-related and other equipment (the “HVAC
    Equipment”). In addition, the HVAC provider provides us
    with other energy-related services. The central HVAC plant is
    located on land owned by us, which has been leased to the HVAC
    provider for a nominal annual rent. Except for equipment added
    since the opening of The Venetian, the HVAC plant and equipment
    is owned by the HVAC provider, and the HVAC provider has been
    granted appropriate easements and other rights so as to be able
    to use the HVAC plant and the HVAC equipment to supply thermal
    energy to the Property, including The Grand Canal Shops mall.
    The HVAC provider paid all costs (“HVAC costs”) in
    connection with the purchase and installation of the HVAC plant
    and equipment in connection with the original construction of
    The Venetian, which costs totaled $70.0 million. The HVAC
    provider has entered into separate service contracts
    (collectively, the “HVAC service agreements”) with
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (which as amended includes The
    Palazzo), Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. (“Interface
    Group-Nevada”) and the owner of The Grand Canal Shops mall,
    for the provision of heat and cooling requirements at agreed-to
    rates. The charges payable by all users include a fixed
    component that enables the HVAC provider to recover 85% of the
    HVAC costs over the initial term of the service contracts, with
    interest at a fixed annual rate of 7.1%. In addition, the users
    reimburse the HVAC provider for the annual cost of operating and
    maintaining the HVAC equipment and providing certain other
    energy related services, and pay the HVAC provider a management
    fee of $0.7 million per year. Each user is allocated a
    portion of the total agreed-to charges and fees through its
    service contract, which portion includes paying 100% of the cost
    of services in connection with the HVAC equipment relating
    solely to such user. Each user is not liable for the obligations
    of the other users; provided, however, that the owner of The
    Grand Canal Shops mall is liable for the obligations of each
    mall tenant. The HVAC service agreements expire in 2009, at
    which time the users will have the right, but not the
    obligation, to collectively either extend the term of their
    agreements for five years (with a second, additional five-year
    renewal option) each or purchase the HVAC plant and equipment in
    accordance with purchase provisions set forth in the HVAC
    service agreements.

ITEM 1A. —

RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below
    as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report
    on

Form 10-K

in connection with evaluating the Company. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently
    deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect
    our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are
    forward-looking statements. See “Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Special
    Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”

Risks
    Related to Our Business

Our
    business is particularly sensitive to reductions in
    discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the
    economy.

Consumer demand for hotel casino resorts, trade shows and
    conventions and for the type of luxury amenities we offer may be
    particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy. Changes in
    consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending brought
    about by factors such as fears of war, future acts of terrorism,
    general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears
    of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy
    could reduce customer demand for the luxury products and leisure
    services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and
    harming our operations.

Our
    business is sensitive to the willingness of our customers to
    travel. Acts of terrorism, regional political events and
    developments in the conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere
    could cause severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the
    number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel.
    A substantial number of our customers for The Venetian use air
    travel to come to Las Vegas. On September 11, 2001, acts of
    terrorism occurred in New York City, Pennsylvania and
    Washington, D.C. As a result of these terrorist acts,
    domestic and international travel was severely disrupted, which
    resulted in a decrease in customer visits to Las Vegas,
    including to The Venetian and The Sands



Expo Center. In addition, developments in the conflicts in Iraq,
    Afghanistan and elsewhere, and regional issues such as tension
    between the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan and
    issues relating to North Korea could have a similar effect on
    domestic and international travel. Most of our customers travel
    to reach either The Venetian or The Sands Macao. Only a small
    amount of our business is generated by local residents.
    Management cannot predict the extent to which disruptions in air
    or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist
    act, outbreak of hostilities or escalation of war would
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

An
    outbreak of highly infectious disease could adversely affect the
    number of visitors to our facilities and disrupt our operations,
    resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows.

In 2003, Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, Singapore and certain other
    regions experienced an outbreak of a highly contagious form of
    atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory
    syndrome (“SARS”). As a result of the outbreak, there
    was a decrease in travel to and from, and economic activity in,
    affected regions, including Macao. In addition, there have been
    recent fears concerning the spread of an “avian flu”
    in Asia. Potential future outbreaks of SARS, avian flu or other
    highly infectious diseases may adversely affect the number of
    visitors to The Sands Macao, The Venetian, The Sands Expo Center
    and other properties we are developing in Las Vegas or Macao and
    our other projects. Furthermore, an outbreak might disrupt our
    ability to adequately staff our business and could generally
    disrupt our operations. If any of our customers or employees is
    suspected of having contracted certain highly contagious
    diseases, we may be required to quarantine these customers or
    employees or the affected areas of our facilities and
    temporarily suspend part or all of our operations at affected
    facilities. Any new outbreak of such a highly infectious disease
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

There
    are significant risks associated with our planned construction
    projects, which could adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows from these planned
    facilities.

Our ongoing and future construction projects, such as The
    Palazzo, The Venetian Macao, Marina Bay Sands and Sands
    Bethworks, entail significant risks. Construction activity
    requires us to obtain qualified contractors and subcontractors,
    the availability of which may be uncertain. Construction
    projects are subject to cost overruns and delays caused by
    events outside of our control or, in certain cases, our
    contractors’ control, such as shortages of materials or
    skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or
    geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference,
    unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction
    materials or equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing
    problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite
    materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations
    from governmental or regulatory authorities could increase the
    total cost, delay, jeopardize or prevent the construction or
    opening of such projects or otherwise affect the design and
    features of The Palazzo, The Venetian Macao, Marina Bay Sands,
    Sands Bethworks or other projects. In addition, the number of
    ongoing projects and their locations throughout the world
    present unique challenges and risks to our management structure.
    If our management is unable to successfully manage our worldwide
    construction projects, it could have an adverse impact on our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We have not entered into a fixed-price or guaranteed maximum
    price contract with a single construction manager or general
    contractor for the construction of The Palazzo, The Venetian
    Macao or Marina Bay Sands. As a result, we will rely heavily on
    our in-house development and construction team to manage
    construction costs and coordinate the work of the various trade
    contractors. The lack of any fixed-price contract with a
    construction manager or general contractor will put more of the
    risk of cost-overruns on us. If we are unable to manage costs or
    we are unable to raise additional capital required to complete
    The Palazzo, The Venetian Macao, Marina Bay Sands or Sands
    Bethworks, we may not be able to open or complete these
    projects, which may have an adverse impact on our business and
    prospects for growth.

The anticipated costs and completion dates for The Palazzo, The
    Venetian Macao, Marina Bay Sands, Sands Bethworks and our other
    projects are based on budgets, designs, development and
    construction documents and schedule estimates that we have
    prepared with the assistance of architects and other
    construction development consultants and that are subject to
    change as the design, development and construction documents are
    finalized and more actual construction work is performed. A
    failure to complete The Palazzo, The Venetian Macao, Marina Bay



Sands, Sands Bethworks or our other projects on budget or on
    schedule may adversely affect our financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows. See “— Risks
    Associated with our International Operations — We are
    required to build and open The Venetian Macao and a convention
    center by December 2007. Unless we meet this deadline or obtain
    an extension, we may lose our right to continue to operate The
    Sands Macao or any other facilities developed under the
    subconcession.”

In May 2006, we entered into a $2.5 billion facility for
    the partial financing of The Sands Macao expansion, The Venetian
    Macao and our other Cotai Strip developments. A significant
    portion of The Sands Macao’s cash flows will also be used
    to finance the construction of The Venetian Macao. If The Sands
    Macao’s cash flows and the credit facility are not
    sufficient, additional equity or debt financings may be needed
    to finance the remainder of the construction of The Venetian
    Macao.

In addition, this credit facility will not cover all of the
    costs of our other Cotai Strip developments. We expect that the
    construction of the other Cotai Strip developments will require
    significant additional debt

and/or

equity financings. We cannot assure you that we will obtain all
    the financing required for the construction and opening of The
    Sands Macao expansion, The Venetian Macao or our other Cotai
    Strip developments.

In addition, the debt agreements to fund the construction of The
    Palazzo and The Venetian Macao contain significant conditions
    that must be satisfied in order for us to be able to continue to
    use the proceeds available under these facilities, including:

•

having sufficient funds available so that construction costs of
    The Palazzo or The Venetian Macao are “in balance” for
    purposes of the applicable debt instruments;

•

obtaining various consents and other agreements from third
    parties, including trade contractors; and

•

other customary conditions.

We expect the cost to develop and construct the Marina Bay Sands
    integrated resort to be approximately $3.6 billion,
    inclusive of the land premium, taxes and other fees. In August
    2006, MBS entered into agreements providing for approximately
    $1.44 billion of financing for the Marina Bay Sands. We
    expect that the construction of the Marina Bay Sands will
    require significant additional debt

and/or

equity financings. We cannot assure you that we will obtain all
    the financing required for the construction and opening of the
    Marina Bay Sands.

The failure to obtain the necessary financing, or satisfy these
    funding conditions, could adversely affect our ability to
    construct The Palazzo, The Venetian Macao, our other planned
    Cotai Strip developments, Marina Bay Sands, Sands Bethworks and
    our other development projects.

Because
    we are currently dependent upon three properties in two markets
    for all of our cash flow, we will be subject to greater risks
    than a gaming company with more operating properties or that
    operates in more markets.

We currently do not have material assets or operations other
    than The Venetian, The Sands Expo Center and The Sands Macao. As
    a result, we will be entirely dependent upon these properties
    for all of our cash flow until we complete the development of
    other properties.

Given that our operations are currently conducted at two
    properties in Las Vegas and one property in Macao and that a
    large portion of our planned future development is in Las Vegas
    and Macao, we will be subject to greater degrees of risk than a
    gaming company with more operating properties in more markets.
    The risks to which we will have a greater degree of exposure
    include the following:

•

local economic and competitive conditions;

•

inaccessibility due to inclement weather, road construction or
    closure of primary access routes;

•

decline in air passenger traffic due to higher ticket costs or
    fears concerning air travel;

•

changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations,
    including gaming laws and regulations;



•

natural and other disasters, including the risk of typhoons in
    the South China region or outbreaks of infectious diseases;

•

an increase in the cost of electrical power for our Las Vegas
    properties as a result of, among other things, power shortages
    in California or other western states with which Nevada shares a
    single regional power grid;

•

changes in the availability of water; and

•

a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas or Macao.

Our
    substantial debt could impair our financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows. We may need to incur additional
    debt to finance our planned construction projects.

We are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service
    obligations. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately
    $4.14 billion of long-term debt outstanding. We expect that
    our Cotai Strip developments, Marina Bay Sands and Sands
    Bethworks will be financed in large part by additional debt. See
    “— There are significant risks associated with
    our planned construction projects, which could adversely affect
    our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows
    from these planned facilities.”

This substantial indebtedness could have important consequences
    to us. For example, it could:

•

make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations;

•

increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;

•

impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future
    for working capital needs, capital expenditures, development
    projects, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;

•

require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow
    from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our
    debt, which would reduce the funds available for our operations;

•

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in the business and the industry in which we operate;

•

place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that have less debt; and

•

subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases
    in interest rates to the extent a portion of our debt is and
    will continue to be at variable rates of interest.

The
    terms of our debt instruments may restrict our current and
    future operations, particularly our ability to finance
    additional growth, respond to changes or take some actions that
    may otherwise be in our best interests.

Our and our subsidiaries’ current debt instruments contain,
    and any future debt instruments, including the debt instruments
    for the financing of our other Cotai Strip developments and
    Marina Bay Sands, likely will contain, a number of restrictive
    covenants that impose significant operating and financial
    restrictions on us and our subsidiaries.

Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility and
    the credit facility for the construction of The Venetian Macao
    include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability
    of Las Vegas Sands, LLC or VML, respectively, to:

•

incur additional debt, including guarantees or credit support;

•

incur liens securing indebtedness;

•

dispose of assets;

•

make certain acquisitions;

•

pay dividends or make distributions and make other restricted
    payments, such as purchasing equity interests, repurchasing
    junior indebtedness or making investments in third parties;



•

enter into sale and leaseback transactions;

•

engage in any new businesses;

•

issue preferred stock; and

•

enter into transactions with our stockholders and our affiliates.

Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility also
    includes financial covenants, including requirements that Las
    Vegas Sands, LLC satisfy:

•

a minimum consolidated net worth test;

•

a maximum consolidated capital expenditure test;

•

a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio; and

•

a maximum consolidated leverage ratio.

VML’s credit facility for the construction of The Venetian
    Macao also includes financial covenants, including requirements
    that VML satisfy:

•

a minimum consolidated EBITDA test for a period of time, and
    from and after certain construction and operational thresholds
    are met, a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio test and
    a maximum consolidated leverage ratio test; and

•

a maximum consolidated capital expenditure test.

The debt facilities for the Marina Bay Sands contain customary
    affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on
    liens, indebtedness, investments, acquisitions and asset sales,
    restricted payments, affiliate transactions and use of proceeds
    from the facilities. The facilities also contain events of
    defaults, including a nationalization of the Marina Bay Sands,
    the termination of our Development Agreement with the Singapore
    Tourism Board, the termination of the lease for the land
    underlying the Marina Bay Sands or the failure of the Singapore
    casino license to be awarded.

The indenture governing our $250.0 million in aggregate
    principal amount of 6.375% senior notes also restricts,
    among other things, our ability to incur liens and enter into
    certain sale and lease-back transactions.

Our future debt or other contracts could contain financial or
    other covenants more restrictive than those applicable under the
    above instruments.

Our
    insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible
    losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our
    insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain
    the same insurance coverage in the future.

Although we have all-risk property insurance for The Venetian,
    The Sands Expo Center and The Sands Macao covering damage caused
    by a casualty loss (such as fire and natural disasters), each
    policy has certain exclusions. In addition, our property
    insurance coverage for The Venetian, The Sands Expo Center and
    The Sands Macao is in an amount that may be significantly less
    than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the complex if
    there was a total loss. Our level of insurance coverage for The
    Venetian and The Sands Expo Center may not be adequate to cover
    all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition,
    certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events,
    acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room
    reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism,
    deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and
    pollution, might not be covered at all under our policies.
    Therefore, certain acts could expose us to heavy, uninsured
    losses.

We also have builder’s risk insurance for many of our
    projects in Las Vegas, Macao and Singapore, including The
    Palazzo, The Venetian Macao, The Sands Macao hotel tower
    expansion and the Marina Bay Sands. Builder’s risk
    insurance provides coverage for projects during their
    construction for damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire
    and natural disasters). In general, our builder’s risk
    coverage is subject to the same exclusions, risks and
    deficiencies as those described above for our all-risk property
    coverage. Our level of builder’s risk insurance coverage
    may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major
    casualty. In addition, delays occasioned by



major casualty events may adversely affect our ability to meet
    the deadlines imposed by the Macao government to complete The
    Venetian Macao and the convention center we are building in
    Macao or our expected opening dates for our other projects. We
    are not insured against this risk.

In addition, although we currently have insurance coverage for
    occurrences of terrorist acts with respect to The Venetian, The
    Sands Expo Center and The Sands Macao and for certain losses
    that could result from these acts, our terrorism coverage is
    subject to the same risks and deficiencies as those described
    above for our all-risk property coverage. The lack of sufficient
    insurance for these types of acts could expose us to heavy
    losses in the event that any damages occur, directly or
    indirectly, as a result of terrorist attacks or otherwise, which
    could have a significant negative impact on our operations.

In addition to the damage caused to our property by a casualty
    loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war or
    terrorism), we may suffer business disruption as a result of
    these events or be subject to claims by third parties injured or
    harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and
    general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate
    to cover all losses in such event.

We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of
    coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce
    our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our
    coverage. Among other factors, it is possible that the
    situations in Iraq and Afghanistan, regional political tensions,
    homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events or any
    change in government legislation governing insurance coverage
    for acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect
    available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on
    available coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our
    policy limits), additional exclusions from coverage or higher
    deductibles. Among other potential future adverse changes, in
    the future we may elect to not, or may not be able to, obtain
    any coverage for losses due to acts of terrorism.

Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to
    maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to
    satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default
    under these debt instruments or material agreements.

We
    depend on the continued services of key managers and employees.
    If we do not retain our key personnel or attract and retain
    other highly skilled employees, our business will
    suffer.

Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to
    a large degree on the services of our senior management team,
    including Sheldon G. Adelson. Mr. Adelson, William P.
    Weidner, Bradley H. Stone, Robert G. Goldstein, Robert P. Rozek
    and Scott D. Henry have each entered into employment agreements.
    However, we cannot assure you that any of these individuals will
    remain with us. We currently do not have a life insurance policy
    on any of the members of the senior management team. The death
    or loss of the services of any of our senior managers or the
    inability to attract and retain additional senior management
    personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We are
    controlled by a principal stockholder whose interest in our
    business may be different than yours.

Mr. Adelson and trusts for the benefit of Mr. Adelson

and/or

his
    family members beneficially own approximately 69% of our
    outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Adelson
    exercises significant influence over our business policies and
    affairs, including the composition of our board of directors and
    any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including
    the adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation and
    the approval of a merger or sale of substantially all of our
    assets. The concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or
    even prevent a change in control of our company and may make
    some transactions more difficult or impossible without the
    support of Mr. Adelson. Because Mr. Adelson and trusts
    for the benefit of Mr. Adelson

and/or

his
    family members own more than 50% of the voting power of our
    company, we are considered a controlled company under the New
    York Stock Exchange listing standards. As such, the NYSE
    corporate governance requirements that our board of directors
    and our compensation committee be independent, do not apply to
    us. As a result, the ability of our independent directors to
    influence our business policies and affairs may be reduced. The
    interests of Mr. Adelson may conflict with your interests.



We are
    a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be
    distributions from our subsidiaries.

We are a parent company with limited business operations of our
    own. Our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We
    conduct most of our business operations through our direct and
    indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our primary sources of cash
    are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership
    interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings
    and cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our
    subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash
    flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. Our
    subsidiaries’ payments to us will be contingent upon their
    earnings and upon other business considerations. In addition,
    our subsidiaries’ debt instruments and other agreements,
    including Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit
    Facility and the Macao credit facility, limit or prohibit
    certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. We
    expect that the debt instruments for the financing of our other
    developments, including our other Cotai Strip developments and
    Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, will contain similar restrictions.

We are
    currently in the development stage of several projects that are
    subject to a variety of contingencies that may ultimately
    prevent the realization of such plans.

We have several new projects in development, including building
    and operating six casino resort developments on the Cotai Strip
    in addition to The Venetian Macao. These projects are subject to
    a number of contingencies. For example, we cannot assure you
    that the Macao government will approve our master plan for the
    development of those Cotai Strip properties or that we will
    raise all the financing required for the completion of these
    projects. See “— There are significant risks
    associated with our planned construction projects, which could
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows from these planned facilities.” In addition,
    although we expect that several of the hotel properties will be
    managed or developed by third parties, we cannot assure you that
    we will reach satisfactory agreements with third parties to
    manage or develop these properties.

We are also exploring opportunities for casino gaming operations
    in certain other jurisdictions, such as the United Kingdom, and
    are also exploring the development of a leisure and convention
    destination resort on Hengqin Island in China. In a number of
    jurisdictions, current laws do not permit unlimited licenses for
    casino gaming of the type we propose to develop or we are
    competing for a limited number of available licenses. These
    projects are subject to a number of contingencies, including,
    but not limited to, adverse developments in applicable
    legislation, our ability to procure necessary governmental
    licenses

and/or

approvals, our ability to reach satisfactory, final agreements
    with necessary third parties or meet the conditions provided for
    under those agreements, and our ability to raise sufficient
    financing to fund such projects. In addition, luxury casino
    resort projects require substantial amounts of capital.

As a result, our various plans for the development of our
    operations may not ultimately be realized as currently planned,
    or at all. Even if we are successful in launching any of these
    ventures, we cannot assure you that any of these projects would
    be successful, or that their operations would not have a
    material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
    operations or cash flows.

Risks
    Associated with Our Las Vegas Operations

We
    face significant competition in Las Vegas which could materially
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows. Some of our competitors have substantially
    greater resources and access to capital than we have and several
    of them are expanding or renovating their facilities. In
    addition, any significant downturn in the trade show and
    convention business would significantly and adversely affect our
    mid-week occupancy rates and business.

The hotel, resort and casino business in Las Vegas is highly
    competitive. The Venetian competes with a large number of major
    hotel-casinos and a number of smaller casinos located on and
    near the Las Vegas Strip and in and near Las Vegas. We also
    compete, to some extent, with other hotel-casino facilities in
    Nevada and in Atlantic City, as well as hotel casinos and other
    resort facilities and vacation destinations elsewhere in the
    United States and around the world. Many of our competitors are
    subsidiaries or divisions of large public companies and may have
    greater financial and other resources than we have. In
    particular, the acquisition of Mandalay Resort Group by



MGM MIRAGE and the acquisition of Caesars Entertainment Inc. by
    Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. created two of the
    world’s largest gaming companies as measured by revenues.

In addition, various competitors on the Las Vegas Strip are
    expanding and renovating their existing facilities. If demand
    for hotel rooms does not keep up with the increase in the number
    of hotel rooms, competitive pressures may cause reductions in
    average room rates.

We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on
    Native American tribal lands, including those located in
    California. While the competitive impact on our operations in
    Las Vegas from the continued growth of Native American gaming
    establishments in California remains uncertain, the
    proliferation of gaming in California and other areas located in
    the same region as The Venetian could have an adverse effect on
    our results of operations.

In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may
    legalize, casino gaming in specific areas, including
    metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract
    customers, such as New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco and
    Boston. A number of states have permitted or are considering
    permitting gaming at “racinos,” on Native American
    reservations and through expansion of state lotteries. The
    current global trend toward liberalization of gaming
    restrictions and resulting proliferation of gaming venues could
    result in a decrease in the number of visitors to our Las Vegas
    facilities by attracting customers close to home and away from
    Las Vegas, which could adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

As a result of the large number of trade shows and conventions
    held in Las Vegas, The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center
    provide recurring demand for mid-week room nights for business
    travelers who attend these events. The attendance level at the
    trade shows and conventions that we host contributes to our

higher-than-average

mid-week occupancy rates. The Sands Expo Center and The Congress
    Center presently compete with other large convention centers,
    including convention centers in Las Vegas and other cities.
    Competition will be increasing for The Congress Center and The
    Sands Expo Center as a result of planned additional convention
    and meeting facilities, as well as the enhancement or expansion
    of existing convention and meeting facilities, in Las Vegas.
    Also, other American cities are in the process of developing, or
    have announced plans to develop, convention centers and other
    meeting, trade and exhibition facilities that may materially
    adversely affect us. To the extent that these competitors are
    able to capture a substantially larger portion of the trade show
    and convention business, there could be a material adverse
    impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows.

The
    loss of our gaming license or our failure to comply with the
    extensive regulations that govern our operations could have an
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

Our gaming operations and the ownership of our securities are
    subject to extensive regulation by the Nevada Gaming Commission,
    the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Clark County
    Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board. The Nevada Gaming Authorities
    have broad authority with respect to licensing and registration
    of our business entities and individuals investing in or
    otherwise involved with us.

Although we currently are registered with, and Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC currently hold gaming
    licenses issued by, the Nevada Gaming Authorities, these
    authorities may, among other things, revoke the gaming license
    of any corporate entity or the registration of a registered
    corporation or any entity registered as a holding company of a
    corporate licensee for violations of gaming regulations.

In addition, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may, under certain
    conditions, revoke the license or finding of suitability of any
    officer, director, controlling person, stockholder, noteholder
    or key employee of a licensed or registered entity. If our
    gaming licenses were revoked for any reason, the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities could require the closing of the casino, which would
    have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition,
    compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations or
    licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or
    licenses applicable to our business or gaming licenses could
    require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

The Nevada State Gaming Control Board investigates or reviews
    the records of gaming companies for compliance with gaming
    regulations as part of its regular oversight functions.



In addition, Sands Bethworks will be subject to the rules and
    regulations promulgated by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board.

For a more complete description of the gaming regulatory
    requirements affecting our business, see
    “Item 1 — Business — Regulation
    and Licensing.”

Certain
    beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to
    file an application with, and be investigated by, the Nevada
    Gaming Authorities, and the Nevada Gaming Commission may
    restrict the ability of a beneficial owner to receive any
    benefit from our voting securities and may require the
    disposition of shares of our voting securities, if a beneficial
    owner is found to be unsuitable.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% of
    our voting securities will be required to apply to the Nevada
    Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within
    30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming
    Control Board mails a written notice requiring the filing. Under
    certain circumstances, an “institutional investor” as
    defined under the regulations of the Nevada Gaming Commission,
    which acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% but not
    more than 15% of our voting securities, may apply to the Nevada
    Gaming Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability
    requirement if the institutional investor holds our voting
    securities only for investment purposes. In addition, any
    beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the
    number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the
    discretion of the Nevada Gaming Commission to file an
    application for a finding of suitability as such. In either
    case, a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing and
    the applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by
    the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting the investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
    suitability as a beneficial owner of our voting securities
    within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada
    Gaming Authorities may be found unsuitable. Any stockholder
    found unsuitable by the Nevada Gaming Commission to be a
    beneficial owner of our voting securities and who continues to
    hold, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership of our voting
    securities beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the
    Nevada Gaming Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We
    will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive
    notice that a person is unsuitable to be a beneficial owner of
    our voting securities or to have any other relationship with us
    or a licensed subsidiary, we or any of the licensed subsidiaries:

•

pay that person any dividend or interest upon our voting
    securities;

•

allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any
    voting right conferred through our voting securities held by
    that person;

•

pay that person any remuneration in any form for services
    rendered or otherwise; or

•

fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require that person to
    relinquish our voting securities for cash at fair market value.

For a more complete description of the Nevada gaming regulatory
    requirements applicable to beneficial owners of our voting
    securities, see “Item 1 —
    Business — Regulation and Licensing — State
    of Nevada.”

The
    construction and operation of The Palazzo could have an adverse
    effect on The Venetian.

We have commenced construction on The Palazzo, which will
    consist of a hotel, casino, dining and entertainment complex,
    condominium tower and meeting and conference center space on an
    approximately 14 acre site adjacent to The Venetian.
    Although we intend to construct The Palazzo with minimal impact
    on The Venetian, we cannot guarantee that the construction will
    not disrupt the operations of The Venetian or that it will be
    implemented as planned. Therefore, the construction of The
    Palazzo may adversely impact the businesses, operations and
    revenues of The Venetian. We also cannot assure you that The
    Palazzo will be as financially successful as The Venetian. If
    demand for the additional hotel rooms at The Palazzo is not
    strong, the lack of demand may adversely affect the occupancy
    rates and room rates realized by us. In addition, because the
    business concept for The Palazzo is very similar to that of The
    Venetian, there may not be enough demand to fill the combined
    hotel room capacity of The Palazzo and The Venetian.



Our
    failure to substantially complete construction of the
    Phase II mall by an

agreed-upon

deadline will result in our having to pay substantial liquidated
    damages and cause an event of default under our debt
    instruments.

Under our agreement with GGP, we have agreed to substantially
    complete construction of the Phase II mall before the
    earlier of 36 months after the date on which sufficient
    permits are received to begin construction of the Phase II
    mall and March 1, 2008. These dates may be extended due to
    force majeure or certain other delays. In the event that we do
    not substantially complete construction of the Phase II
    mall on or before the earlier of these two dates (as these dates
    may be extended as described in the preceding sentence), we must
    pay liquidated damages of $5,000 per day, for up to six
    months, until substantial completion (increasing to
    $10,000 per day, for up to the next six months, if
    substantial completion does not occur by the end of six months
    after the completion deadline). If substantial completion has
    not occurred on or before one year after the deadline, we will
    be required to pay total liquidated damages in the amount of
    $100.0 million. In addition, failure to substantially
    complete construction of the Phase II mall by the

agreed-upon

deadline would constitute an event of default under Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility.

If we
    are unable to maintain an acceptable working relationship with
    GGP

and/or

if GGP breaches any of its material agreements with us, there
    could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

We have entered into agreements with GGP under which, among
    other things:

•

GGP has agreed to purchase the Phase II mall from us;

•

GGP has agreed to operate The Grand Canal Shops mall subject to,
    and in accordance with, the cooperation agreement;

•

leases for the Phase II mall, a joint opening date of the
    Phase II mall and The Palazzo and certain aspects of the
    design of the Phase II mall must be jointly approved by us
    and GGP; and

•

we lease from GGP certain office space and space located within
    The Grand Canal Shops mall, in which we built the Blue Man Group
    theater (which opened in October 2005) and in which the
    canal and the gondola retail store are located.

Each of the above-described agreements with GGP could be
    adversely affected in ways that could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows if we do not maintain an acceptable working relationship
    with GGP. For example:

•

if we are unable to agree with GGP on leases for the
    Phase II mall, the purchase price we will ultimately be
    paid for the Phase II mall could be substantially reduced,
    and there would, at least for a certain period of time, be an
    empty or partially empty mall within The Palazzo;

•

the success of the opening of The Palazzo may be adversely
    affected if there is not an

agreed-upon

joint opening date for The Palazzo and the Phase II mall;

•

completion of the construction of the Phase II mall would
    be delayed during any period of time that we are not in
    agreement with GGP as to certain design elements of the
    Phase II mall; and

•

the cooperation agreement that will govern the relationship
    between the Phase II mall and The Palazzo requires that the
    owners cooperate in various ways and take various joint actions,
    which will be more difficult to accomplish, especially in a
    cost-effective manner, if the parties do not have an acceptable
    working relationship.

There could be similar material adverse consequences to us if
    GGP breaches any of its agreements to us, such as its agreement
    to purchase the Phase II mall from us, its agreement under
    the cooperation agreement to operate The Grand Canal Shops mall
    consistent with the standards of first-class restaurant and
    retail complexes and the overall Venetian theme, and its various
    obligations as our landlord under the leases described above.
    Although the various agreements with GGP do provide us with
    various remedies in the event of any breaches by GGP and also
    include various dispute-resolution procedures and mechanisms,
    these remedies, procedures and mechanisms may



be inadequate to prevent a material adverse effect on our
    operations and financial condition if breaches by GGP occur or
    if we do not maintain an acceptable working relationship with
    GGP.

We
    extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not
    be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit
    players.

We conduct our gaming activities on a credit basis as well as a
    cash basis. This credit is unsecured. Table games players
    typically are extended more credit than slot players, and
    high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than
    patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more
    volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss
    results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant
    positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a
    particular quarter.

At The Venetian, credit play is significant while at The Sands
    Macao table games play is primarily cash play. We extend credit
    to those customers whose level of play and financial resources
    warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit.
    For the year ended December 31, 2006, our table games drop
    at The Venetian was approximately 62.6% from credit-based guest
    wagering. These large receivables could have a significant
    impact on our operating results if deemed uncollectible.

While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including
    what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” and
    judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws
    of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable
    in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the
    U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that
    enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although
    courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts
    directly and the assets in the United States of foreign debtors
    may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts
    from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many
    foreign nations.

Risks
    Associated with Our International Operations

Conducting
    business in Macao and Singapore has certain political and
    economic risks which may affect the financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows of our Asian
    operations.

We currently own and operate a casino in Macao and are
    developing and plan to operate one or more hotels, additional
    casinos and convention centers in Macao, including The Venetian
    Macao. We also plan to own and operate the Marina Bay Sands in
    Singapore. Accordingly, our business development plans,
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be
    materially and adversely affected by significant political,
    social and economic developments in Macao, throughout the rest
    of China and in Singapore, and by changes in policies of the
    governments or changes in laws and regulations or the
    interpretations thereof. Our operations in Macao are, and our
    operations in Singapore will be, also exposed to the risk of
    changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies
    based in those countries. Tax laws and regulations may also be
    subject to amendment or different interpretation and
    implementation, thereby adversely affecting our profitability
    after tax. Further, the percentage of our gross gaming revenues
    that we must contribute annually to the Macao authorities is
    subject to change in 2010. These changes may have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

As we expect a significant number of consumers to come to The
    Sands Macao and The Venetian Macao from China, general economic
    conditions and policies in China could have a significant impact
    on our financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or
    reversal of China’s current policies of liberalizing
    restrictions on travel and currency movements could adversely
    impact the number of visitors from China to our Macao properties
    as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino.

Current Macao laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming
    concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is
    little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and
    regulations. We believe that our organizational structure and
    operations are in compliance in all material respects with all
    applicable laws and regulations of Macao. However, these laws
    and regulations are complex and a court or an administrative or
    regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of
    these laws and regulations, or issue regulations, that differs
    from our interpretation, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows. The Marina Bay Sands will be the first gaming facility to
    open in Singapore following the



government’s adoption of gaming legislation in 2005.
    Accordingly, the laws and regulations relating to gaming and
    their interpretations are untested.

In addition, our activities in Macao are, and our operations in
    Singapore will be, subject to administrative review and approval
    by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that we
    will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may
    materially affect our long-term business strategy and
    operations. Macao and Singapore laws permit redress to the
    courts with respect to administrative actions. However, such
    redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues.

We are
    required to build and open The Venetian Macao and a convention
    center by December 2007. Unless we meet this deadline or obtain
    an extension, we may lose our right to continue to operate The
    Sands Macao or any other facilities developed under the
    subconcession.

Under our subconcession agreement, we are obligated to develop
    and open The Venetian Macao and a convention center by December
    2007. Construction of The Venetian Macao is subject to
    significant development and construction risks, including
    construction, equipment and staffing problems or delays and
    difficulties in obtaining required materials, licenses, permits
    and authorizations from governmental regulatory authorities, not
    all of which have been obtained. Construction projects are
    subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events not within
    our control or, in certain cases, our contractors’ control,
    such as shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen
    engineering, environmental

and/or

geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference,
    unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction
    materials or equipment. We have obtained a $2.5 billion
    credit facility for the financing of The Venetian Macao and our
    other Cotai Strip developments. In addition, our ability to
    incur additional debt or to make positive investments in the
    entity constructing The Venetian Macao is limited under the
    terms of the debt instruments of Las Vegas Sands, LLC and may
    prevent us from fulfilling our construction obligations. See
    “— Risks Related to Our
    Business — The terms of our debt instruments may
    restrict our current and future operations, particularly our
    ability to finance additional growth, respond to changes or take
    some actions that may otherwise be in our best interests”
    and “— Risks Related to Our Business —
    There are significant risks associated with our planned
    construction projects, which could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from
    these planned facilities.” We are currently scheduled to
    open The Venetian Macao in summer 2007. We have received an
    extension of the original completion deadline from the Macao
    authorities. Although we believe that we will be able to
    complete these projects by the December 2007 deadline or obtain
    another extension of the deadline, if we fail to do so, the
    Macao government has the right, after consultation with our
    concessionaire, Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate our
    subconcession to operate The Sands Macao or any of our other
    casino operations in Macao, without compensation to us. The loss
    of our subconcession would prohibit us from conducting gaming
    operations in Macao, which could have a material adverse effect
    on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We are
    constructing some of our Cotai Strip properties on land for
    which we have not yet been granted concessions. If we do not
    obtain land concessions, we could lose all or a substantial part
    of our investment in these sites and would not be able to open
    and operate the projects as planned.

We have not yet obtained land concessions from the Macao
    government for the sites we refer to as parcels 5, 6,
    7 and 8. If we do not obtain land concessions for these sites,
    we will not be able to open and operate these projects and we
    could lose all or a substantial part of our investment in these
    other Cotai Strip properties. As of December 31, 2006, we
    have invested approximately $100.0 million in these Cotai
    Strip properties.



The
    Macao government can terminate our subconcession under certain
    circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The Macao government has the right, after consultation with
    Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate our subconcession in the event
    of serious non-compliance by VML with its basic obligations
    under the subconcession and applicable Macao laws. The following
    reasons for termination are included in the subconcession:

•

the operation of gaming without permission or operation of
    business which does not fall within the business scope of the
    subconcession;

•

suspension of operations of our gaming business in Macao without
    reasonable grounds for more than seven consecutive days or more
    than 14 non-consecutive days within one calendar year;

•

unauthorized transfer of all or part of our gaming operations in
    Macao;

•

failure to pay taxes, premiums, levies or other amounts payable
    to the Macao government;

•

failure to resume operations following the temporary assumption
    of operations by the Macao government;

•

repeated failure to comply with decisions of the Macao
    government;

•

failure to provide or supplement the guarantee deposit or the
    guarantees specified in the subconcession within the prescribed
    period;

•

bankruptcy or insolvency of VML;

•

fraudulent activity by VML;

•

serious and repeated violation by VML of the applicable rules
    for carrying out casino games of chance or games of other forms
    or the operation of casino games of chance or games of other
    forms;

•

the grant to any other person of any managing power over
    VML; or

•

failure by a controlling shareholder in VML to dispose of its
    interest in VML following notice from the gaming authorities of
    another jurisdiction in which such controlling shareholder is
    licensed to operate casino games of chance to the effect that
    such controlling shareholder can no longer own shares in VML.

These events could lead to the termination of our subconcession
    without compensation to us regardless of whether they occurred
    with respect to us or with respect to our affiliates who will
    operate our Macao properties. Upon such termination, all of our
    casino gaming operations and related equipment in Macao would be
    automatically transferred to the Macao government without
    compensation to us and we would cease to generate any revenues
    from these operations. In many of these instances, the
    subconcession agreement does not provide a specific cure period
    within which any such events may be cured and, instead, we would
    rely on consultations and negotiations with the Macao government
    to give us an opportunity to remedy any such default. In
    addition, the subconcession agreement contains various general
    covenants and obligations and other provisions, the
    determination as to compliance with which is subjective. We
    cannot assure you that we will perform such covenants in a way
    that satisfies the requirements of the Macao government and,
    accordingly, we will be dependent on our continuing
    communications and good faith negotiations with the Macao
    government to ensure that we are performing our obligations
    under the subconcession in a manner that would avoid a default
    thereunder.

Our subconcession also allows the Macao government to request
    various changes in the plans and specifications of our Macao
    properties and to make various other decisions and
    determinations that may be binding on us. For example, the Macao
    government has the right to require that we contribute
    additional capital to our Macao subsidiaries or that we provide
    certain deposits or other guarantees of performance in any
    amount determined by the Macao government to be necessary. VML
    is limited in its ability to raise additional capital by the
    need to first obtain the approval of the Macao gaming and
    governmental authorities before raising certain debt or equity.
    As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply
    with these requirements or any other requirements of the Macao
    government or with the other requirements and obligations
    imposed by our subconcession.



Furthermore, pursuant to the subconcession agreement, we are
    obligated to comply not only with the terms of that agreement,
    but also with laws and regulations that the Macao government
    might promulgate in the future. We cannot assure you that we
    will be able to comply with any such order or that any such
    order would not adversely affect our ability to construct or
    operate our Macao properties. If any disagreement arises between
    us and the Macao government regarding the interpretation of, or
    our compliance with, a provision of the subconcession agreement,
    we will be relying on the consultation process with the
    applicable Macao governmental agency described above. During any
    such consultation, however, we will be obligated to comply with
    the terms of the subconcession agreement as interpreted by the
    Macao government.

Our failure to comply with the terms of our subconcession in a
    manner satisfactory to the Macao government could result in the
    termination of our subconcession. Under our subconcession, we
    would not be compensated if the Macao government decided to
    terminate the subconcession because of our failure to perform.
    The loss of our subconcession would prohibit us from conducting
    gaming operations in Macao, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

We
    will stop generating any revenues from our Macao gaming
    operations if we cannot secure an extension of our subconcession
    in 2022 or if the Macao government exercises its redemption
    right at any time beginning on December 26,
    2017.

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022.
    Unless our subconcession is extended, on that date, all of our
    casino operations and related equipment in Macao will be
    automatically transferred to the Macao government without
    compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues
    from these operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the
    Macao government may redeem the subconcession agreement by
    providing us at least one year prior notice. In the event the
    Macao government exercises this redemption right, we are
    entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such
    compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount
    of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the
    redemption. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew
    or extend our subconcession agreement on terms favorable to us
    or at all. We also cannot assure you that if our subconcession
    is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to
    compensate us for the loss of future revenues.

Our
    Macao operations face intense competition, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The hotel, resort and casino businesses are highly competitive.
    Our Macao operations currently compete with numerous other
    casinos located in Macao. In addition, we expect competition to
    increase in the near future from local and foreign casino
    operators. SJM, which currently operates 17 gaming facilities in
    Macao, had a commitment to invest at least 4.7 billion
    patacas (approximately $586.8 million at exchange rates in
    effect on December 31, 2006) in gaming, entertainment
    and related projects in Macao by March 31, 2009. These
    projects include the Grand Lisboa, the upgrade of the Lisboa
    Hotel, Macao’s largest hotel, the Fisherman’s Wharf
    entertainment complex, which opened in December 2005, and a
    number of additional new casino hotel projects. In addition, MGM
    MIRAGE has entered into a joint venture agreement with Stanley
    Ho’s daughter, Pansy Ho Chiu-king, to develop, build and
    operate two major hotel-casino resorts in Macao. In April 2005,
    MGM Grand Paradise Limited, a joint venture between Pansy Ho
    Chiu-king and MGM MIRAGE, obtained a subconcession allowing it
    to conduct gaming operations in Macao. The MGM Grand Macau is
    scheduled to open in the fourth quarter of 2007. The resort will
    feature approximately 600 rooms, 345 table games, 1,035 slot
    machines, restaurants and entertainment amenities.

In addition, Wynn Macau, a subsidiary of our competitor, Wynn
    Resorts, Limited, has also received a concession from the Macao
    government. Wynn Macau opened in September 2006 and includes an
    approximately 600-room hotel, a casino and other non-gaming
    amenities. Wynn Macau has announced plans to expand the property
    to include additional gaming space. The expansion is scheduled
    to open by the third quarter of 2007. In 2006, Wynn Macau sold
    its subconcession right under its gaming concession to an
    affiliate of PBL for $900 million. The subconcession right
    permits the PBL affiliate to receive a gaming subconcession from
    the Macao government.

Under its concession, Galaxy is also obligated to invest
    4.4 billion patacas (approximately $549.3 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) in
    development projects in Macao by June 2012. Galaxy currently



operates five casinos in Macao. In October 2006, Galaxy’s
    StarWorld Hotel & Casino opened. The property has over
    500 hotel rooms and a 140,000 square foot gaming floor with
    approximately 300 table games and 370 slot machines.

We will also compete to some extent with casinos located
    elsewhere in Asia, such as Malaysia’s Genting Highlands, as
    well as gaming venues in Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere in
    the world, including Las Vegas. In addition, certain countries
    have legalized, and others may in the future legalize, casino
    gaming, including Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan and Thailand. We also
    expect competition from cruise ships operating out of Hong Kong
    and other areas of Asia that offer gaming. The proliferation of
    gaming venues in Southeast Asia could significantly and
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

The
    Macao and Singapore governments could grant additional rights to
    conduct gaming in the future, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

We hold a subconcession under one of only three gaming
    concessions authorized by the Macao government to operate
    casinos in Macao. The Macao government is precluded from
    granting any additional gaming concessions until 2009. However,
    we cannot assure you that the laws will not change and permit
    the Macao government to grant additional gaming concessions
    before 2009. In addition, the Macao government permits existing
    concessionaires to grant subconcessions. If the Macao government
    were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macao through
    the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would
    face additional competition, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

We hold one of two licenses granted by the Singapore government
    to develop an integrated resort, including a casino. The
    Singapore government has said that it will not license another
    casino for at least ten years. If the Singapore government were
    to license additional casinos before then, we would face
    additional competition which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

We may
    not be able to attract and retain professional staff necessary
    for our existing and future properties in Macao and our
    operations in Singapore.

Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract,
    retain, train, manage and motivate skilled employees. There is
    significant competition in Macao for employees with the skills
    required to perform the services we offer and competition for
    such persons is likely to increase. We expect competition in
    Singapore for employees with the skills we require as we develop
    and open the Marina Bay Sands. There can be no assurance that a
    sufficient number of skilled employees will continue to be
    available, or that we will be successful in training, retaining
    and motivating current or future employees. If we are unable to
    attract, retain and train skilled employees, our ability to
    adequately manage and staff our existing and planned casino and
    resort properties in Macao and Singapore could be impaired,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We are
    dependent upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion
    of our gaming revenues in Macao.

Junket operators, who organize tours, or junkets, for high
    roller customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant
    portion of our gaming revenues in Macao. With the rise in gaming
    in Macao, the competition for relationships with junket
    operators has increased. While we are undertaking initiatives to
    strengthen our relationships with our current junket operators,
    there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain, or
    grow, our relationships with junket operators. If we are unable
    to maintain or grow our relationships with junket operators, our
    ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered and we may
    seek alternative ways to develop relationships with high roller
    customers, which may not be as profitable as our junket programs.

In addition, the quality of junket operators is important to our
    reputation and our ability to continue to operate in compliance
    with our gaming licenses. While we strive for excellence in our
    associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that
    the junket operators with whom we are associated will meet the
    high standards we insist



upon. If a junket operator falls below our standards, we may
    suffer reputational harm, as well as worsening relationships
    with, and possibly sanctions from, gaming regulators with
    authority over our operations.

Our
    business could be adversely affected by the limitations of the
    pataca exchange markets and restrictions on the export of the
    renminbi.

Our revenues in Macao are denominated in patacas, the legal
    currency of Macao, and Hong Kong dollars. Although currently
    permitted, we cannot assure you that patacas will continue to be
    freely exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Also, because the
    currency market for patacas is relatively small and undeveloped,
    our ability to convert large amounts of patacas into
    U.S. dollars over a relatively short period may be limited.
    As a result, we may experience difficulty in converting patacas
    into U.S. dollars.

We are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in renminbi,
    the currency of China. There are currently restrictions on the
    export of the renminbi outside of mainland China, including to
    Macao. Restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the
    flow of gaming customers from China to Macao, inhibit the growth
    of gaming in Macao and negatively impact our gaming operations.

On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced
    that the renminbi will no longer be pegged to the
    U.S. dollar, but will be allowed to float in a band (and,
    to a limited extent, increase in value) against a basket of
    foreign currencies. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong
    dollar. Certain Asian countries have publicly asserted their
    desire to eliminate the peg of the Hong Kong dollar to the
    U.S. dollar. As a result, we cannot assure you that the
    Hong Kong dollar and the Macao pataca will continue to be pegged
    to the U.S. dollar or that the current peg rate for these
    currencies will remain at the same level. The floating of the
    renminbi and possible changes to the peg of the Hong Kong dollar
    may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these
    currencies. Any change in such exchange rates could have a
    material adverse effect on our operations and on our ability to
    make payments on certain of our debt instruments. We do not
    currently hedge for foreign currency risk.

Certain
    gaming laws apply to our planned gaming activities and
    associations in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to
    operate.

Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to our gaming activities
    and associations in jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada.
    We are required to comply with certain reporting requirements
    concerning our proposed gaming activities and associations
    occurring outside the State of Nevada, including Macao and other
    jurisdictions. We will also be subject to disciplinary action by
    the Nevada Gaming Commission if we:

•

knowingly violate any laws of the foreign jurisdiction
    pertaining to the foreign gaming operation;

•

fail to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with
    the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming
    operations;

•

engage in any activity or enter into any association that is
    unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the
    control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect
    discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in
    Nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of Nevada;

•

engage in any activity or enter into any association that
    interferes with the ability of the State of Nevada to collect
    gaming taxes and fees; or

•

employ, contract with or associate with any person in the
    foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a
    finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal
    unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at
    gambling.

In addition, if the Nevada State Gaming Control Board determines
    that one of our actual or intended activities or associations in
    a foreign gaming operation may violate one or more of the
    foregoing, we can be required by it to file an application with
    the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability of
    such activity or association. If the Nevada Gaming Commission
    finds that the activity or association in the foreign gaming
    operation is unsuitable or prohibited, we will either be
    required to terminate the activity or association, or will be
    prohibited from undertaking the activity or association.
    Consequently, should the Nevada Gaming Commission find that our
    gaming



activities or associations in Macao or certain other
    jurisdictions where we operate are unsuitable, we may be
    prohibited from undertaking our planned gaming activities or
    associations in those jurisdictions.

The Macao gaming authorities exercise similar powers for
    purposes of assessing suitability in relation to our activities
    in jurisdictions outside of Macao.

We may
    not be able to monetize some of our real estate
    assets.

Part of our business strategy in Macao relies upon our ability
    to profitably operate

and/or

sell
    certain of our real estate assets once developed, including
    vacation suites and retail malls, and to use the proceeds of
    these operations and sales to refinance, or repay in part our
    construction loans for these assets, as well as to provide
    investment capital for additional development both in Macao and
    elsewhere. Our ability to sell these assets will be subject to
    market conditions, the receipt of necessary government approvals
    and other factors. If we are unable to profitably operate

and/or

monetize these real estate assets, we will have to seek
    alternative sources of capital to refinance in part our
    construction loans and for other investment capital. These
    alternative sources of capital may not be available on
    commercially reasonable terms or at all.

VML
    may have financial and other obligations to foreign workers
    hired by its contractors under government labor
    quotas.

The Macao government has granted VML a quota to permit it to
    hire foreign workers. VML has effectively allocated this quota
    to its contractors for the construction of The Venetian Macao
    and other projects on the Cotai Strip. VML, however, remains
    ultimately liable for all employer obligations relating to these
    employees, including for payment of wages and taxes and
    compliance with labor and workers’ compensation laws. VML
    requires each contractor to whom it has allocated part of its
    labor quota to indemnify VML for any costs or liabilities VML
    incurs as a result of such contractor’s failure to fulfill
    employer obligations. VML’s agreements with its contractors
    also contain provisions that permit it to retain some payments
    for up to one year after the contractors complete work on the
    projects. We cannot assure you that VML’s contractors will
    fulfill their obligations to employees hired under the labor
    quotas or to VML under the indemnification agreements, or that
    the amount of any indemnification will be sufficient to pay for
    any obligations VML may owe to employees hired by contractors
    under VML’s quotas. Until we make final payments to our
    contractors, we have offset rights to collect amounts they may
    owe us, including amounts owed under the indemnities relating to
    employer obligations. After we have made the final payments, it
    may be more difficult for us to enforce any unpaid indemnity
    obligations.

The
    transportation infrastructure in Macao may need to be expanded
    to meet increased visitation in Macao.

Macao is in the process of expanding its transportation
    infrastructure to service the increased number of visitors to
    Macao. If the planned expansions of transportation facilities to
    and from Macao are delayed or not completed, and Macao’s
    transportation infrastructure is insufficient to meet the
    demands of an increased volume of visitors to Macao, the
    desirability of Macao as a gaming and tourist destination, as
    well as the results of operations of our Macao properties, could
    be negatively impacted.

We are
    currently not required to pay corporate income taxes on our
    casino gaming operations in Macao. This tax exemption expires at
    the end of 2008.

We have had the benefit of a temporary corporate tax exemption
    in Macao, effective May 18, 2004, which exempts us from
    paying corporate income tax on profits generated by the
    operation of casino games. We will continue to benefit from this
    tax exemption through the end of 2008. We cannot assure you that
    this tax exemption will be extended beyond the expiration date
    and we do not expect this tax exemption to apply to our
    non-gaming activities.

Macao
    is susceptible to severe typhoons that may disrupt
    operations.

Macao is susceptible to severe typhoons. Macao consists of a
    peninsula and two islands off the coast of mainland China. On
    some occasions, typhoons have caused a considerable amount of
    damage to Macao’s



infrastructure and economy. In the event of a major typhoon or
    other natural disaster in Macao, our business may be severely
    disrupted and our results of operations could be adversely
    affected. Although we have insurance coverage with respect to
    these events, we cannot assure you that our coverage will be
    sufficient to fully indemnify us against all direct and indirect
    costs, including loss of business, that could result from
    substantial damage to, or partial or complete destruction of,
    our Macao properties or other damage to the infrastructure or
    economy of Macao.

Our
    Singapore concession can be terminated under certain
    circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The Development Agreement between MBS and the STB contains
    events of default which could permit the STB to terminate the
    agreement without compensation to us. If the Development
    Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, we could
    lose our right to open and operate the Marina Bay Sands and our
    investment in Marina Bay Sands could be lost.

ITEM 1B. —

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. —

PROPERTIES

We own an approximately 60-acre parcel of land on which The
    Venetian and The Sands Expo Center sit and on which The Palazzo
    is being constructed. We own this parcel of land in fee simple,
    subject to certain easements, encroachments and other
    non-monetary encumbrances and the security interests described
    below.

Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility is,
    subject to certain exceptions, secured by a first priority
    security interest (subject to permitted liens) in substantially
    all of Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s property. The Phase II
    mall construction loan is secured by first priority security
    interests in substantially all of the assets of Phase II
    Mall Subsidiary, LLC and Phase II Mall Holding, LLC. The
    Sands Expo Center mortgage loan is secured by a first priority
    mortgage on The Sands Expo Center and by certain other related
    collateral.

We have received a concession from the Macao government to use a
    six acre land site for The Sands Macao. We do not own the land
    site in Macao. However, the land concession, which will expire
    in 2028 and is renewable, grants us exclusive use of the land.
    The land concession requires us to pay a premium which is
    payable over a number of years. In addition, we are also
    obligated to pay rent annually for the term of the land
    concession. The rent amount may be revised every five years by
    the Macao government. See “Item 8 —
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements —
    Note 11 — Commitments and
    Contingencies — Macao Concession and
    Subconcession” for more information on our payment
    obligation under this land concession.

In February 2007, we received the final draft of the land
    concession agreement from the Macao government pursuant to which
    we were awarded a concession by lease for parcels 1, 2 and
    3 on the Cotai Strip, including the sites on which we are
    building The Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons hotel. We have
    accepted the conditions of the draft land concession and have
    made an initial premium payment of $106.5 million towards
    the aggregate land premium of $323.7 million. Additionally,
    $24.1 million has been paid or will be paid in the form of
    the cost of the reclamation work and other works done on the
    land and the installation costs of an electrical substation with
    the remaining amount payable over time. The land concession will
    not become effective until the date it is published in
    Macao’s Official Gazette. Once the land concession is
    effective, we will be required to make additional land premium
    and annual rent payments relating to parcels 1, 2 and 3 in
    the amounts and at the times specified in the land concession.
    The land concession has a

25-year

term
    and is renewable.

We do not yet have all the necessary Macao government approvals
    that we will need in order to develop the Cotai Strip
    developments. We have commenced construction on our other Cotai
    Strip properties on land for which we have not yet been granted
    land concessions. If we do not obtain land concessions, we could
    lose all or a substantial part of our investment in these other
    Cotai Strip properties.



In August 2006, MBS entered into the Development Agreement with
    STB to build and operate an integrated resort called Marina Bay
    Sands in Singapore. Under the Development Agreement, the Company
    paid SGD$1.2 billion (approximately US$782.5 million
    at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) in
    premium payments for the lease of the land on which the resort
    will be built plus an additional SGD$105.6 million
    (approximately US$68.9 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2006) for various taxes and other
    fees. Of this combined amount, $806.0 million has been
    capitalized on the balance sheet as leasehold interest in land
    with $4.8 million amortized as of December 31, 2006.
    The Company will amortize this asset over 60 years, which
    is the length of the lease agreement.

The Sands Bethworks development will be located on the
    approximately

124-acre

site of the Historic Bethlehem Steel Works in Bethlehem,
    Pennsylvania, which is about 70 miles from midtown
    Manhattan, New York. The property is owned by the Company
    through its joint venture with Bethworks Now, LLC.

In 2004, we entered into a long-term lease with a third party
    for airspace in which part of the Phase II mall will be
    constructed. In addition, in December 2006 and subject to
    recording a certain commercial subdivision map, we closed on an
    agreement to acquire the airspace above that leased space in
    order to build the proposed condominium tower.

ITEM 3. —

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In addition to the matters described below, we are party to
    various legal matters and claims arising in the ordinary course
    of business. Management has made certain estimates for potential
    litigation costs based upon consultation with legal counsel.
    Actual results could differ from these estimates; however in the
    opinion of management, such litigation and claims will not have
    a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The
    Palazzo Construction Litigation

Lido Casino Resort, LLC (“Lido”), a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of the Company, and its construction manager, Taylor
    International Corp. (“Taylor”), filed suit in March
    2006 in the United States District Court for the District of
    Nevada (the “District Court”) against Malcolm Drilling
    Company, Inc. (“Malcolm”), the contractor on The
    Palazzo project responsible for completing certain foundation
    work (the “District Court Case”). Lido and Taylor
    claim in the District Court Case that Malcolm was in default of
    its contract for performing defective work, failing to correct
    defective work, failing to complete its work and causing delay
    to the project. Malcolm responded by filing a Notice of a Lien
    with the Clerk of Clark County, Nevada in March 2006 in the
    amount of approximately $19.0 million (the
    “Lien”). In April 2006, Lido and Taylor moved in the
    District Court Case to strike or, in the alternative, to reduce
    the amount of, the Lien, claiming, among other things, that the
    Lien was excessive for including claims for disruption and
    delay, which Lido and Taylor claim are not lienable under Nevada
    law (the “Lien Motion”). Malcolm responded in April
    2006 by filing a complaint against Lido and Taylor in District
    Court of Clark County, Nevada seeking to foreclose on the Lien
    against Taylor, claiming breach of contract, a cardinal change
    in the underlying contract, unjust enrichment against Lido and
    Taylor and bad faith and fraud against Taylor (the “State
    Court Case”), and simultaneously filed a motion in the
    District Court Case, seeking to dismiss the District Court Case
    on abstention grounds (the “Abstention Motion”). In
    response, in June 2006, Lido filed a motion to dismiss the State
    Court Case based on the principle of the “prior
    pending” District Court Case (the “Motion to
    Dismiss”). In June 2006, the Abstention Motion was granted
    in part by the United States District Court, the District Court
    Case was stayed pending the outcome of the Motion to Dismiss in
    the State Court Case and the Lien Motion was denied without
    prejudice. Lido and Malcolm then entered into a stipulation
    under which Lido withdrew the Motion to Dismiss, and in July
    2006 filed a replacement lien motion in the State Court Case.
    The lien motion in the State Court Case was denied in August
    2006 and Lido and Taylor filed a permitted interlocutory notice
    of appeal to the Supreme Court of Nevada in September 2006. This
    matter is in the preliminary stages and based upon the advice of
    legal counsel, management has determined that based on
    proceedings to date, it is currently unable to determine the
    probability of the outcome of this matter. Lido intends to
    defend itself against the claims pending in the State Court Case.



Litigation
    Relating to Macao Operations

On October 15, 2004, Richard Suen and Round Square Company
    Limited filed an action against Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas
    Sands Inc., Sheldon G. Adelson and William P. Weidner in the
    District Court of Clark County, Nevada, asserting a breach of an
    alleged agreement to pay a success fee of $5.0 million and
    2.0% of the net profit from the Company’s Macao resort
    operations to the plaintiffs as well as other related claims. In
    March 2005, Las Vegas Sands Corp. was dismissed as a party
    without prejudice based on a stipulation to do so between the
    parties. On May 17, 2005, the plaintiffs filed their first
    amended complaint. On February 2, 2006, defendants filed a
    motion for partial summary judgment with respect to
    plaintiffs’ fraud claims against all the defendants. On
    March 16, 2006, an order was filed by the court granting
    defendants’ motion for partial summary judgment. Pursuant
    to the order filed March 16, 2006, plaintiffs’ fraud
    claims set forth in the first amended complaint were dismissed
    with prejudice as against all defendants. The order also
    dismissed with prejudice the first amended complaint against
    defendants Sheldon G. Adelson and William P. Weidner. This
    action is in a preliminary stage and based upon the advice of
    legal counsel, management has determined that based on
    proceedings to date, it is currently unable to determine the
    probability of the outcome of this matter. The Company intends
    to defend this matter vigorously.

On January 26, 2006, Clive Basset Jones, Darryl Steven
    Turok (a/k/a Dax Turok) and Cheong Jose Vai Chi

(a/k/a Cliff

Cheong), filed an action against Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, LLC, Venetian Venture Development, LLC and various
    unspecified individuals and companies in the District Court of
    Clark County, Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of an
    agreement to pay a success fee in an amount equal to 5% of the
    ownership interest in the entity that owns and operates the
    Macau SAR gaming subconcession as well as other related claims.
    In April 2006, Las Vegas Sands Corp. was dismissed as a party
    without prejudice based on a stipulation to do so between the
    parties. Other than the complaint which has been filed, and the
    Company’s answer, there is currently no pending activity in
    the matter. This action is in a preliminary stage and discovery
    has begun. Based upon the advice of legal counsel, management
    has determined that based on proceedings to date, it is
    currently unable to determine the probability of the outcome of
    this matter. The Company intends to defend this matter
    vigorously.

On February 5, 2007, Asian American Entertainment
    Corporation, Limited (“AAEC”) filed an action against
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (“LVSI”), Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC (“VCR”), Venetian Venture Development, LLC
    (“Venetian Venture Development”), William P. Weidner
    and David Friedman in the United States District Court for the
    District of Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of contract by
    LVSI, VCR and Venetian Venture Development of an agreement under
    which AAEC would work to obtain a gaming license in Macao and,
    if successful, AAEC would jointly operate a casino, hotel and
    related facilities in Macao with Venetian Venture Development
    and Venetian Venture Development would receive fees and a
    minority equity interest in the venture and breach of fiduciary
    duties by all of the defendants. The plaintiffs have requested
    an unspecified amount of actual, compensatory and punitive
    damages, disgorgement of profits related to our Macao gaming
    license. Other than the complaint which has been filed, there is
    currently no pending activity in the matter. This action is in a
    preliminary stage. Based upon the advice of legal counsel,
    management has determined that based on proceedings to date, it
    is currently unable to determine the probability of the outcome
    of this matter. The Company intends to defend this matter
    vigorously.

ITEM 4. —

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
    HOLDERS

None.



PART II

ITEM 5. —

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Market
    Information

The Company’s common stock began trading on the NYSE on
    December 14, 2004 under the symbol “LVS.” The
    following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for the
    common stock on the NYSE for the fiscal quarter indicated.

High

Low


First Quarter

$

51.40

$

41.41

Second Quarter

$

45.34

$

33.10

Third Quarter

$

40.73

$

30.87

Fourth Quarter

$

46.44

$

29.08


First Quarter

$

58.03

$

38.44

Second Quarter

$

78.90

$

54.68

Third Quarter

$

77.86

$

57.68

Fourth Quarter

$

97.25

$

66.06


First Quarter (through
    February 23, 2007)

$

109.45

$

89.88

As of February 23, 2007, there were 354,682,930 shares
    of our common stock issued and outstanding that were held by
    214 stockholders of record.

Dividends

We have not declared or paid any dividends since our formation
    in August 2004. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common
    stock in the future. We expect to retain our future earnings, if
    any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Our
    board of directors will determine whether to pay dividends in
    the future based on conditions then existing, including our
    earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, as well
    as economic and other conditions our board may deem relevant.

Our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock is
    subject to the requirements of Nevada law. In addition, we are a
    parent company with limited business operations of our own.
    Accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and
    distributions with respect to our ownership interest in our
    subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow
    generated by our operating properties.

Our subsidiaries’ long-term debt arrangements place
    material restrictions on those companies’ ability to pay
    cash dividends to the Company. This will restrict our ability to
    pay cash dividends other than from cash on hand. See
    “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Restrictions on Distributions” and
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt.”

In 2004, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. declared and paid
    $107.9 million of dividends as tax distributions to all of
    its stockholders at the time, including its principal
    stockholder. In 2004, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. also declared a
    $21.1 million dividend to its stockholders which was paid
    in January 2005. These tax distributions were made in order to
    provide these stockholders with funds to pay taxes attributable
    to taxable income of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (including taxable
    income of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. associated with the sale of The
    Grand Canal Shops mall) that flowed through to them by virtue of
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s status as a subchapter
    S corporation for income tax purposes. As a result of its
    conversion to a taxable “C” corporation for income tax
    purposes, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (now known as Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC) is no longer making these tax distributions.



Immediately prior to the July 29, 2004 acquisition of
    Interface Group Holding Company, Inc. (“Interface
    Holding”) by Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Interface Holding
    distributed approximately $15.2 million to its sole
    stockholder. The distribution was comprised of
    $12.9 million of cash, $1.9 million of receivables due
    from the principal stockholder of Interface Holding and
    $0.4 million of certain fixed and other assets.

Recent
    Sales of Unregistered Securities

There has not been any sales by the Company of equity securities
    in the last fiscal year that have not been registered under the
    Securities Act of 1933.

Performance
    Graph

The following performance graph compares the performance of our
    Common Stock with the performance of the Standard &
    Poor’s 500 Index and a peer group of companies, during the
    period from the Company’s initial public offering on
    December 15, 2004 through December 31, 2006. The
    selected peer group for 2006 is comprised of three gaming
    companies considered to be the Company’s closest
    competitors: Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc., MGM MIRAGE and
    Wynn Resorts Limited. The selected peer group for 2004 included
    these three companies, as well as Caesar’s Entertainment,
    Inc. and Mandalay Resort Group. In 2005, Caesar’s
    Entertainment Inc. was acquired by Harrah’s Entertainment,
    Inc. and Mandalay Resort Group merged with MGM MIRAGE. The graph
    plots the changes in value of an initial $100 investment over
    the indicated time period, assuming all dividends are reinvested.

Cumulative Total Return

12/15/04

12/31/04

12/31/05

12/31/06

Las Vegas Sands Corp.

$

100.00

$

103.09

$

84.77

$

192.18

S&P 500

$

100.00

$

103.40

$

108.48

$

125.62

Peer Group

$

100.00

$

104.38

$

102.83

$

148.30

The performance graph should not be deemed filed or incorporated
    by reference into any other Company filing under the Securities
    Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent
    the Company specifically incorporates the performance graph by
    reference therein.

ITEM 6. —

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The historical selected financial data set forth below should be
    read in conjunction with “Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial
    statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K.

The statements of



operations and cash flow data for the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, and the balance sheet
    data at December 31, 2006 and 2005 are derived from, and
    are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated
    financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

The statements of operations and cash flow data for the years
    ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 and the balance sheet data
    at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 are derived from the
    Company’s audited consolidated financial statements that do
    not appear herein. The historical results are not necessarily
    indicative of the results of operations to be expected in the
    future.

Year Ended December 31,




(1)



(In thousands, except per share data)

STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
    DATA

Gross
    revenues

(1)

$

2,340,178

$

1,824,225

$

1,258,570

$

736,610

$

657,544

Promotional allowances

(103,319

)

(83,313

)

(61,514

)

(44,856

)

(34,208

)

Net revenues

2,236,859

1,740,912

1,197,056

691,754

623,336

Operating expenses

1,662,762

1,251,461

578,588

505,628

463,401

Operating income

574,097

489,451

618,468

186,126

159,935

Interest expense, net

(69,662

)

(63,181

)

(130,337

)

(120,317

)

(121,432

)

Other income (expense)

(189

)

(1,334

)

(131

)


1,045

Loss on early retirement of
    debt

(2)

—

(137,000

)

(6,553

)

—

(51,392

)

Income (loss) before income taxes

504,246

287,936

481,447

66,634

(11,844

)

Benefit (provision) for income
    taxes

(3)

(62,243

)

(4,250

)

13,736

—

—

Net income (loss)

$

442,003

$

283,686

$

495,183

$

66,634

$

(11,844

)

Per Share
    Data

(4)

Basic earnings (loss) per share

$

1.25

$

0.80

$

1.52

$

0.21

$

(0.04

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per share

$

1.24

$

0.80

$

1.52

$

0.20

$

(0.04

)

Dividends declared per share

$

—

$

—

$

0.44

$

0.01

$

—

OTHER DATA

Capital expenditures

$

1,925,291

$

860,621

$

465,748

$

279,948

$

136,740

At December 31,






(In thousands)

BALANCE SHEET DATA

Total assets

$

7,126,458

$

3,879,739

$

3,601,478

$

1,917,035

$

1,606,762

Long-term debt

$

4,136,152

$

1,625,901

$

1,485,064

$

1,525,116

$

1,343,762

Stockholders’ equity

$

2,075,154

$

1,609,538

$

1,316,001

$

162,108

$

100,384



(4)

Earnings (loss) per share and shares outstanding for all periods
    presented retroactively reflect the impact of the Company’s
    first quarter 2002 stock split and 2004 pre-initial public
    offering stock split. The 2002 stock split increased the number
    of shares of common stock outstanding from 246,080,299 to
    266,032,755. The 2004 acquisition of Interface Holding from our
    principal stockholder increased the number of shares of common
    stock outstanding to 326,188,348. The 2004 initial public
    offering and stock option exercises increased the number of
    shares of common stock outstanding by 28,910,907 to 354,160,692.
    The impact of outstanding options to purchase
    1,463,180 shares of the Company’s common stock has not
    been included in the computation of diluted earnings (loss) per
    share for the year ended December 31, 2002, as their impact
    would have been antidilutive.

ITEM 7. —

MANAGEMENT’S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and
    is qualified in its entirety by, the audited consolidated
    financial statements, and the notes thereto and other financial
    information included in this

Form 10-K.

Certain statements in this “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” are forward-looking statements. See
    “— Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
    Statements.”

Operations

We own and operate The Venetian, a Renaissance Venice-themed
    resort situated on the Las Vegas Strip (the “Strip”).
    The Venetian includes the first all-suites hotel on the Strip
    with 4,027 suites; a gaming facility of approximately
    120,000 gross square feet; an enclosed retail, dining and
    entertainment complex of approximately 440,000 net leasable
    square feet (“The Grand Canal Shops” or the
    “Mall”), which was sold to a third party in 2004; a
    meeting and conference facility of approximately
    1.1 million square feet; and The Sands Expo Center with
    approximately 1.2 million square feet. Approximately 42.9%
    of our gross revenue at The Venetian for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 was derived from gaming and 57.1% was
    derived from hotel rooms, food and beverage, and other sources.
    The percentage of non-gaming revenue for The Venetian reflects
    the resort’s emphasis on the group convention and trade
    show business and the resulting higher occupancy and room rates
    during mid-week periods.

We also own and operate The Sands Macao, a Las Vegas-style
    casino in Macao, China, which opened on May 18, 2004. The
    Sands Macao now offers over 229,000 square feet of gaming
    facilities after our expansion, which was completed in August
    2006, as well as several restaurants, VIP facilities, a theatre
    and other high-end amenities. In addition, we continue to
    progress according to plan on our expansion of the hotel tower,
    which we expect to complete during summer 2007 and to cost
    approximately $100.1 million. Approximately 96.2% of The
    Sands Macao’s gross revenue for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 was derived from gaming activities, with
    the remainder primarily derived from food and beverage services.

United
    States Development Projects

The
    Palazzo

We are currently constructing The Palazzo, a second resort
    similar in size to The Venetian, which is situated on a

14-acre

site
    next to The Venetian and The Sands Expo Center. The Palazzo is
    expected to consist of an all-suites, 50-floor luxury hotel
    tower with approximately 3,025 suites, a gaming facility of
    approximately 105,000 square feet and an enclosed shopping,
    dining and entertainment complex of approximately
    450,000 square feet, which we have contracted to sell to a
    third party. The Palazzo is expected to open in fall 2007 at a
    cost estimated to be approximately $1.85 billion (exclusive
    of land, furniture, fixtures and equipment), of which the
    Phase II mall is expected to cost approximately
    $280.0 million (exclusive of certain incentive payments to
    executives made in July 2004). In addition, we expect that
    additional capital expenditures will be required to build out
    stores and restaurants to be located in the Phase II mall.
    In connection with the sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall, we
    entered into an agreement with GGP, the purchaser of The Grand
    Canal Shops mall, to sell GGP the Phase II mall upon
    completion of construction. The purchase price that GGP has
    agreed to pay for the Phase II mall is the greater of
    (i) $250.0 million and (ii) the Phase II
    mall’s net operating income for months 19 through 30 of its
    operations



divided by a capitalization rate. The capitalization rate is
    6.0% on the first $38.0 million of net operating income and
    8.0% on the net operating income above $38.0 million.

We are in the early stages of constructing a high rise
    residential condominium tower which will consist of
    approximately 270 luxury condominiums and will be situated
    between The Palazzo and The Venetian. The condominium tower is
    currently expected to open in late fall 2008 at an estimated
    cost ranging from $600.0 million to $700.0 million.

Sands
    Bethworks

On December 20, 2006, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board
    announced that our subsidiary, Sands Bethworks Gaming, had been
    awarded a Pennsylvania gaming license. The award of the license
    is subject to appeals and the actual license will be awarded
    once the appeal period ends. We intend to develop a gaming,
    hotel, shopping and dining complex located on the site of the
    Historic Bethlehem Steel Works in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, which
    is about 70 miles from midtown Manhattan, New York. In its
    first phase, the

124-acre

development is expected to feature a 300-room hotel,
    200,000 square feet of retail space, 3,000 slot machines
    and a variety of dining options. An additional 2,000 slot
    machines will be added in a subsequent phase. We currently
    expect the cost to develop and construct the Sands Bethworks
    will be approximately $600.0 million and expect the complex
    to open in 2008.

Macao
    Development Projects

The
    Cotai Strip

We are building The Venetian Macao in Macao, China, an
    approximately 3,000 all-suites hotel, casino and convention
    center complex with a Venetian-style theme similar to that of
    The Venetian in Las Vegas. Under our gaming subconcession in
    Macao, we are obligated to develop and open The Venetian Macao
    and a convention center by December 2007. We currently expect to
    open The Venetian Macao in summer 2007. If we fail to meet the
    December 2007 deadline and that deadline is not extended, we
    could lose our right to continue to operate The Sands Macao or
    any other facilities developed under our Macao gaming
    subconcession, and our investment to date in The Venetian Macao
    could be lost.

In addition to the development of The Venetian Macao, we are
    developing multiple other properties on the Cotai Strip. We have
    submitted development plans to the Macao government for six
    casino-resort developments in addition to The Venetian Macao on
    an area of approximately 200 acres located on the Cotai
    Strip (parcels 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8). The
    developments are expected to include hotels, exhibition and
    conference facilities, casinos, showrooms, shopping malls, spas,
    world-class restaurants and entertainment facilities and other
    attractions and amenities, as well as common public areas. We
    have commenced construction or pre-construction on all seven
    parcels of the Cotai Strip. We plan to own and operate all of
    the casinos in these developments under our Macao gaming
    subconcession. More specifically, we intend to develop our Cotai
    Strip properties as follows:

•

Parcel 2 is intended to be a Four Seasons hotel and casino,
    which will be adjacent to The Venetian Macao and is expected to
    be a boutique hotel with approximately 400 luxury hotel rooms,
    approximately 800,000 square feet of Four Seasons-serviced
    luxury apartments, distinctive dining experiences, a full
    service spa and other amenities, an approximately
    45,000 square foot casino and approximately
    210,000 square feet of upscale retail offerings. We will
    own the entire development. We have entered into an exclusive
    non-binding letter of intent and are currently negotiating
    definitive agreements under which Four Seasons Hotels Inc. will
    manage the hotel and serviced luxury apartments under its Four
    Seasons brand.

•

Parcel 5 is intended to include a three-hotel complex with
    approximately 2,450 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms, serviced
    luxury apartments, a casino and a retail shopping mall. We will
    own the entire development and have entered into a management
    agreement with Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts to manage two
    hotels under its Shangri-La and Traders brands. In
    addition, we are negotiating with Starwood Hotels &
    Resorts Worldwide to manage a hotel and serviced luxury
    apartments under its St. Regis brand.

•

Parcel 6 is intended to include a two-hotel complex with
    approximately 4,000 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms, a casino
    and a retail shopping mall physically connected to the mall in
    the Shangri-La/Traders hotel



podium. We will own the entire development and are negotiating
    with Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide to manage the
    hotels under its Sheraton brand.

•

Parcels 7 and 8 are intended to each include a two-hotel complex
    with approximately 3,000 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms on
    each parcel, serviced luxury vacation suites, a casino and
    retail shopping malls that are physically connected. We will own
    the entire development and have entered into non-binding
    agreements with Hilton Hotels to manage Hilton and Conrad brand
    hotels and serviced luxury vacation suites on parcel 7 and
    Fairmont Raffles Holdings to manage Fairmont and Raffles brand
    hotel complexes and serviced luxury vacation suites on parcel 8.
    We are currently negotiating definitive agreements with Hilton
    Hotels and Fairmont Raffles Holdings.

•

For parcel 3, we have signed a non-binding memorandum of
    agreement with an independent developer. We are currently
    negotiating the definitive agreement pursuant to which we will
    partner with this developer to build a multi-hotel complex,
    which may include a Cosmopolitan hotel. In addition, we have
    signed a non-binding letter of intent with Intercontinental
    Hotels Group to manage hotels under the Intercontinental and
    Holiday Inn International brands, and serviced luxury vacation
    suites under the Intercontinental brand, on the site. We are
    currently negotiating definitive agreements with
    Intercontinental Hotels Group. In total, the multi-hotel complex
    is intended to include approximately 3,600 hotel rooms, serviced
    luxury vacation suites, a casino and a retail shopping mall.

The casino at The Venetian Macao is currently planned to have
    approximately 850 table games and 4,100 slot machines when it
    opens in summer 2007, and is designed to have a final capacity
    of approximately 1,150 table games and 7,000 slot machines. The
    Four Seasons resort is currently planned to feature
    approximately 130 table games and 400 slot machines. The casinos
    on sites 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 are each currently planned
    to include approximately 325 table games and 1,750 slot
    machines. Upon completion, our developments on the Cotai Strip
    are currently planned to feature total gaming capacity of
    approximately 2,900 table games and 16,000 slot machines.

In February 2007, we received the final draft of the land
    concession agreement from the Macao government pursuant to which
    we were awarded a concession by lease for parcels 1, 2 and
    3 on the Cotai Strip, including the sites on which we are
    building The Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons hotel. We have
    accepted the conditions of the draft land concession and have
    made an initial premium payment of $106.5 million towards
    the aggregate land premium of $323.7 million. Additionally,
    $24.1 million has been paid or will be paid in the form of
    the cost of the reclamation work and other works done on the
    land and the installation costs of an electrical substation with
    the remaining amount payable over time. The land concession will
    not become effective until the date it is published in
    Macao’s Official Gazette. Once the land concession is
    effective, we will be required to make additional land premium
    and annual rent payments relating to parcels 1, 2 and 3 in
    the amounts and at the times specified in the land concession.
    We have also commenced construction on our other Cotai Strip
    properties on land for which we have not yet been granted land
    concessions. If we do not obtain land concessions, we could lose
    all or a substantial part of our investment in these other Cotai
    Strip properties.

We currently estimate that the cost of developing and building
    The Venetian Macao will be approximately $2.4 billion
    (exclusive of the aggregate land concession payment of
    $323.7 million for parcels 1, 2 and 3). During May
    2006, VML obtained a $2.5 billion credit facility to
    fund The Sands Macao expansion and to partially fund the
    design, development, construction and pre-opening costs for The
    Venetian Macao, the Four Seasons hotel and some of our other
    development projects on the Cotai Strip, and to pay related fees
    and expenses. Currently, we expect the total cost of development
    on the Cotai Strip to be in the range of $9.0 billion to
    $11.0 billion. We will need to arrange additional debt
    financing to finance those costs as well.

We do not yet have all the necessary Macao government approvals
    that we will need in order to develop the Cotai Strip
    developments. We have commenced construction on our other Cotai
    Strip properties on land for which we have not yet been granted
    land concessions. If we do not obtain land concessions, we could
    lose all or a substantial part of our investment in these other
    Cotai Strip properties. As of December 31, 2006, we have
    invested approximately $100.0 million in our other Cotai
    Strip properties.



Hengqin
    Island Development Project

We have entered into a non-binding letter of intent with the
    Zhuhai Municipal People’s Government of the People’s
    Republic of China to work with it to create a master plan for,
    and develop, a leisure and convention destination resort on
    Hengqin Island, located approximately one mile from the Cotai
    Strip, but within mainland China. We are actively preparing
    preliminary design concepts for presentation to the government.
    On January 10, 2007, the Zhuhai Government established a
    Project Coordination Committee to act as a government liaison
    empowered to work directly with the Company to advance the
    development of the project. We have interfaced with this
    committee and are actively working with the committee as we
    continue to advance our plans. The project remains subject to a
    number of conditions, including further governmental approvals.

Singapore
    Development Project

In August 2006, our wholly-owned subsidiary, MBS, entered into
    the Development Agreement with the STB to build and operate an
    integrated resort called Marina Bay Sands in Singapore. The
    Marina Bay Sands will be a large integrated resort that includes
    three 54-story hotel towers (totaling approximately 2,600
    suites) linked at their roofs by a Skypark with pools, cafes and
    other recreation facilities, a casino, an enclosed retail,
    dining and entertainment complex of approximately
    750,000 net leasable square feet, a convention center and
    meeting room complex of approximately 1.2 million square
    feet, theaters, and a landmark iconic structure at the bay-front
    promenade that contains an approximately 150,000 square
    foot Art/Science museum.

Under the Development Agreement, we paid $1.2 billion
    Singapore dollars (“SGD”) (approximately
    US$782.5 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2006) in premium payments for the lease
    of the land on which the resort will be built plus an additional
    SGD$105.6 million (approximately US$68.9 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) for
    various taxes and other fees. Of this combined amount,
    $806.0 million has been capitalized on the balance sheet as
    a leasehold interest in land with $4.8 million amortized as
    of December 31, 2006. We will amortize this asset over
    60 years, which is the length of the lease agreement. Of
    the remaining $45.4 million, $39.7 million was
    recorded as a receivable (which was collected in January
    2007) and $5.7 million has been capitalized on the
    balance sheet as construction in progress. In addition to the
    fees above, we provided a deposit of SGD$192.6 million
    (approximately US$125.6 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2006) as a security deposit for the
    construction of the integrated resort, which is currently being
    satisfied by bank guarantees. Also in August 2006, MBS entered
    into a two-year SGD$2.21 billion (approximately
    US$1.44 billion at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2006) bridge facility to finance the
    above payments and to provide for near-term development
    expenditures. We expect the cost to develop and construct the
    Marina Bay Sands integrated resort will be approximately
    $3.6 billion, inclusive of the land premium, taxes and
    other fees discussed above. The Marina Bay Sands is expected to
    open in 2009.

United
    Kingdom Development Projects

In December 2006, we announced that one of our affiliates and
    Cantor Gaming, an affiliate of the global financial services
    company Cantor Fitzgerald, have agreed to launch an online
    casino and poker site initially aimed at serving the United
    Kingdom market. Cantor Gaming will provide an online casino and
    poker destination featuring Las Vegas Sands brands. The site
    will offer casino games, including blackjack, roulette,
    baccarat, video poker, slots and online poker. The offering will
    be part of a full

end-to-end

gaming service, including customer age and location
    verification, online payment processing and customer services.
    The site is expected to be launched during the second quarter of
    2007. The site will be hosted, and the operator will be
    licensed, in compliance with the laws of Alderney, British
    Channel Islands. It will not accept U.S. customers.

The United Kingdom government recently announced that the
    country’s first regional super casino would be built in
    Manchester. A tender process for the operator of that facility
    is to be undertaken and we intend to participate in the tender
    process. In addition, we have existing agreements to develop and
    lease gaming and entertainment facilities with Sheffield United
    and Glasgow Rangers football clubs in the United Kingdom. Our
    ability to eventually develop and lease gaming and entertainment
    facilities under these agreements is subject to a number of
    conditions, including the passage of legislation to expand the
    number of authorized regional casinos and our ability to obtain
    a gaming license.



Other
    Development Projects

We are currently exploring the possibility of operating
    integrated resorts in additional Asian jurisdictions, the United
    States and Europe.

Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America requires our management to make
    estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
    assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These
    estimates and judgments are based on historical information,
    information that is currently available to us and on various
    other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable
    under the circumstances. Actual results could vary from those
    estimates and we may change our estimates and assumptions in
    future evaluations. Changes in these estimates and assumptions
    may have a material effect on our results of operations and
    financial condition. We believe that the critical accounting
    policies discussed below affect our more significant judgments
    and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated
    financial statements.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts

We maintain an allowance, or reserve, for doubtful accounts at
    our operating casino resorts, The Venetian and The Sands Macao.
    We regularly evaluate the allowance for doubtful accounts. At
    The Venetian, where credit or marker play is significant, we
    apply standard reserve percentages to aged account balances
    under a specified dollar amount and specifically analyze the
    collectibility of each account with a balance over the specified
    dollar amount, based upon the age of the account, the
    customer’s financial condition, collection history and any
    other known information. We also monitor regional and global
    economic conditions and forecasts in our evaluation of the
    adequacy of the recorded reserves. At The Sands Macao, where
    credit or marker play is not significant, we apply a standard
    reserve percentage to aged account balances. The mix of credit
    play as a percentage of total casino play has decreased
    significantly since 2005 due to the continued growth of The
    Sands Macao where table games play is primarily cash play, while
    The Venetian credit table games play represents approximately
    62.6% of total table games play. Our allowance for doubtful
    accounts was 22.8% and 26.9% of gross casino and hotel accounts
    receivable for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

Self-Insurance
    Accruals

We maintain accruals for health and workers compensation
    self-insurance, which are classified in other accrued
    liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. We determine the
    adequacy of these accruals by periodically evaluating the
    historical experience and projected trends related to these
    accruals and in consultation with outside actuarial experts. If
    such information indicates that the accruals are overstated or
    understated, or if business conditions indicate we should adjust
    the assumptions utilized, we will reduce or provide for
    additional accruals as appropriate.

Litigation
    Accrual

We are subject to various claims and legal actions. We estimate
    the accruals for these claims and legal actions in accordance
    with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for
    Contingencies,” and include such accruals in other accrued
    liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.

Property
    and Equipment

At December 31, 2006, we had net property and equipment of
    $4.58 billion, representing 64.3% of our total assets. We
    depreciate property and equipment on a straight-line basis over
    their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are
    based on the nature of the assets as well as current operating
    strategy and legal considerations such as contractual life.
    Future events, such as property expansions, property
    developments, new competition, or new regulations, could result
    in a change in the manner in which we use certain assets
    requiring a change in the estimated useful lives of such assets.



For assets to be held and used, fixed assets are reviewed for
    impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. If an
    indicator of impairment exists, the Company first groups its
    assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for
    which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the
    cash flows of other assets and liabilities (the “asset
    group”). Secondly, the Company estimates the undiscounted
    future cash flows that are directly associated with and expected
    to arise from the use of and eventual disposition of such asset
    group. The Company estimates the undiscounted cash flows over
    the remaining useful life of the primary asset within the asset
    group. If the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value,
    no impairment is indicated. If the undiscounted cash flows do
    not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is measured
    based on fair value compared to carrying value, with fair value
    typically based on a discounted cash flow model. If an asset is
    still under development, future cash flows include remaining
    construction costs.

Stock-Based
    Compensation

SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,”
    requires the recognition of compensation expense in the
    consolidated statements of operations related to the fair value
    of employee stock-based compensation. Determining the fair value
    of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment,
    including estimating the expected term that stock options will
    be outstanding prior to exercise, the associated volatility and
    the expected dividends. Expected volatilities are based on the
    historical volatilities from a selection of companies from our
    peer group due to our lack of historical information. We used
    the simplified method for estimating expected option life, as
    the options qualify as “plain-vanilla” options. We
    believe that the valuation technique and the approach utilized
    to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in
    calculating the fair values of our stock options granted.
    Judgment is also required in estimating the amount of
    stock-based awards expected to be forfeited prior to vesting. If
    actual forfeitures differ significantly from these estimates,
    stock-based compensation expense could be materially impacted.
    Prior to adopting SFAS No. 123R, we applied APB
    Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
    Employees”, and related Interpretations, in accounting for
    our stock-based compensation plans. All employee stock options
    were granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market
    value (as defined in the Company’s 2004 Equity Award
    Plan). The Company adopted SFAS No. 123R effective
    January 1, 2006. During the year ended December 31,
    2006, we recorded stock-based compensation expense of
    $14.7 million. No such expense was recorded in 2005 and
    2004. As of December 31, 2006, there was $55.8 million
    of unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures
    of 8.0%, related to nonvested stock options and there was
    $2.1 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to
    nonvested restricted stock. The stock option and restricted
    stock costs are expected to be recognized over a weighted
    average period of 3.2 years and 1.9 years,
    respectively.

Income
    Taxes

We are subject to income taxes in the United States, and in
    several states and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. We
    account for income taxes in accordance with
    SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”
    Under SFAS No. 109, deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are recognized based on differences between
    financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities
    using enacted tax rates. SFAS No. 109 requires the
    recognition of deferred tax assets, net of any applicable
    valuation allowances, related to net operating loss
    carryforwards, tax credits and other temporary differences. The
    standard requires recognition of a future tax benefit to the
    extent that realization of such benefit is more likely than not;
    otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied.

Our income tax returns are subject to examination by the
    Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax
    authorities. While positions taken in tax returns are sometimes
    subject to uncertainty in the tax laws, we do not take such
    positions unless we have “substantial authority” to do
    so under the Internal Revenue Code and applicable regulations.
    We may take positions on our tax returns based on substantial
    authority that are not ultimately accepted by the IRS.

We assess potential unfavorable outcomes based on the criteria
    of SFAS No. 5. We establish a tax reserve if an
    unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the
    unfavorable outcome can be reasonably estimated. We assess the
    potential outcomes of tax uncertainties on a quarterly basis. In
    determining whether the probable criterion of
    SFAS No. 5 is met, we presume that the taxing
    authority will focus on the exposure and we assess the probable
    outcome of a particular issue based upon the relevant legal and
    technical merits. We also apply our judgment regarding the
    potential actions by the tax authorities and resolution through
    the settlement process.



We maintain required tax reserves until such time as the
    underlying issue is resolved. When actual results differ from
    reserve estimates, we will adjust the income tax provision and
    our tax reserves in the period resolved. For tax years that are
    examined by taxing authorities, we will adjust tax reserves in
    the year the tax examinations are settled. For tax years that
    are not examined by taxing authorities, we will adjust tax
    reserves in the year that the statute of limitations expires.
    Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax
    issue is highly judgmental, and we believe we have adequately
    provided for any reasonable and foreseeable outcomes related to
    uncertain tax matters.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

In June 2006, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on
    Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue

No. 06-03,

“How Sales Collected from Customers and Remitted to
    Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income
    Statement (that is, Gross Versus Net Presentation)”. The
    EITF reached a consensus that the presentation of taxes on
    either a gross or net basis is an accounting policy decision
    that requires disclosure. EITF Issue

No. 06-03

is effective for the first interim or annual reporting period
    beginning after December 15, 2006. Taxes collected from the
    our customers are and have been recorded on a net basis. We have
    no intention of modifying this accounting policy. As such, the
    adoption of EITF Issue

No. 06-03

will not have an effect on our results from operations or
    financial position.

In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation (“FIN”)
    No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes”, which provides guidance for the accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial
    statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109.
    FIN No. 48 provides guidance on the financial
    statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or
    expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN No. 48 also
    provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and
    penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosures, and
    transition. FIN No. 48 will require entities to assess
    the likelihood that uncertain tax positions will be accepted by
    the applicable taxing authority and then measure the amount of
    benefit to be recognized for these purposes which are considered
    greater than 50% likely to be sustained. FIN No. 48 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2006. We will adopt FIN No. 48 as of January 1,
    2007, as required. We are currently evaluating the impact of
    adopting this standard, but believe that there will be a
    reduction to opening retained earnings in an amount that will
    not exceed $12.0 million.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements”, which defines fair value,
    establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands
    disclosures about fair value measurements.
    SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting
    pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurement.
    SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value
    measurements and we do not expect the application of this
    standard to change its current practices. The provisions of
    SFAS No. 157 are effective for financial statements
    issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007
    and interim periods within those fiscal years.

Summary
    Financial Results

The following table summarizes our results of operations:

Year Ended December 31,

Percent

Percent


Change


Change


(In thousands, except for percentages)

Net revenues

$

2,236,859

28.5

%

$

1,740,912

45.4

%

$

1,197,056

Operating expenses

1,662,762

32.9

%

1,251,461

116.3

%

578,588

Operating income

574,097

17.3

%

489,451

(20.9

)%

618,468

Income before income taxes

504,246

75.1

%

287,936

(40.2

)%

481,447

Net income

442,003

55.8

%

283,686

(42.7

)%

495,183



Percent of Net Revenues Year Ended December 31,




Operating expenses

74.3

%

71.9

%

48.3

%

Operating income

25.7

%

28.1

%

51.7

%

Income before income taxes

22.5

%

16.5

%

40.2

%

Net income

19.8

%

16.3

%

41.4

%

Our historical financial results during the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2004 will not be indicative of our
    future results, among other things, for the following items
    which are not anticipated to occur to this magnitude in the near
    future: we sold The Grand Canal Shops mall on May 17, 2004
    and recognized a gain of $417.6 million; we paid incentive
    payments of $63.2 million related to the Phase II mall
    sale to certain of our executives in July 2004; we incurred a
    loss on disposal of assets of $31.6 million in 2004 related
    primarily to demolition of space to accommodate the construction
    of a showroom; we incurred a stock-based compensation charge of
    $49.2 million related to our initial public offering in
    2004; and we incurred a loss on retirement of debt of
    $137.0 million during 2005 related to the redemption of the
    11% Mortgage Notes and VML’s senior secured notes.

Key
    operating revenue measurements

The Venetian’s operating revenue is dependent upon the
    volume of customers who stay at the hotel, which affects the
    price that can be charged for hotel rooms and the volume of
    table games and slot machine play. The Sands Macao is almost
    wholly dependent on casino customers that visit the casino on a
    daily basis. Hotel revenues are not material for The Sands
    Macao. Visitors to The Sands Macao arrive by ferry, automobile,
    bus, airplane or helicopter from Hong Kong, cities in China and
    other Southeast Asian cities in close proximity to Macao.

The following are the key measurements we use to evaluate
    operating revenue:

Casino revenue measurements for Las
    Vegas:

Table games drop and slot handle are
    volume measurements. Win or hold percentage represents the
    percentage of drop or handle that is won by the casino and
    recorded as casino revenue. Table games drop represents the sum
    of markers issued (credit instruments) less markers paid at the
    table, plus cash deposited in the table drop box. Slot handle is
    the gross amount wagered or coin placed into slot machines in
    aggregate for the period cited. Drop and handle are
    abbreviations for table games drop and slot handle. Based upon
    our mix of table games, our table games produce a statistical
    average table win percentage (calculated before discounts) as
    measured as a percentage of table game drops of 20.0% to 22.0%
    and slot machines produce a statistical average slot machine win
    percentage (calculated before slot club cash incentives) as
    measured as a percentage of slot machine handle generally
    between 6.0% and 7.0%.

Casino revenue measurements for Macao:

We view
    Macao table games as being segregated into two groups,
    consistent with the Macao market’s convention: Rolling Chip
    play (all VIP play) and Non-Rolling Chip play (mostly non-VIP
    players). The volume measurement for Rolling Chip play is
    non-negotiable gaming chips wagered. The volume measurement for
    Non-Rolling Chip is table games drop as described above. Rolling
    Chip volume and Non-Rolling Chip volume are not equivalent
    because, since Rolling Chip volume is a measure of amounts
    wagered versus dropped, Rolling Chip volume is substantially
    higher than drop. Slot handle at The Sands Macao is the gross
    amount wagered or coins placed into slot machines in aggregate
    for the period cited.

We view Rolling Chip table games win as a percentage of Rolling
    Chip volume and we view

Non-Rolling

Chip table games win as a percentage of drop. Win or hold
    percentage represents the percentage of Rolling Chip volume,
    Non-Rolling Chip drop or slot handle that is won by the casino
    and recorded as casino revenue. Based upon our mix of table
    games in Macao, our Rolling Chip table games win percentage
    (calculated before discounts and commissions) as measured as a
    percentage of Rolling Chip volume is expected to be 2.7% to 3.0%
    and our Non-Rolling Chip table games are expected to produce a
    statistical average table win percentage as measured as a
    percentage of table game drop (before discounts and commissions)
    of 18.0% to 20.0%. Similar to Las Vegas, our Macao slot machines
    produce a statistical average slot machine win percentage as
    measured as a percentage of slot machine handle of generally
    between 6.0% and 7.0%.



Actual win may vary from the statistical average. Generally,
    slot machine play at The Venetian and The Sands Macao is
    conducted on a cash basis. The Venetian’s table games
    revenue is approximately 62.6% from credit based guests wagering
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 and The Sands
    Macao’s table game play is conducted primarily on a cash
    basis.

Hotel revenue measurements:

Hotel occupancy
    rate, which is the average percentage of available hotel rooms
    occupied during a period, and average daily room rate, which is
    the average price of occupied rooms per day, are used as
    performance indicators. Revenue per available room represents a
    summary of hotel average daily room rates and occupancy. Because
    not all available rooms are occupied, average daily room rates
    are higher than revenue per available room.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year Ended
    December 31, 2005

Operating
    Revenues

Our net revenues consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands, except for percentages)

Net Revenues

Casino

$

1,676,061

$

1,250,090

34.1

%

Rooms

350,606

323,560

8.4

%

Food and beverage

187,819

147,510

27.3

%

Convention, retail and other

125,692

103,065

22.0

%

$

2,340,178

$

1,824,225

28.3

%

Less — promotional
    allowances

(103,319

)

(83,313

)

(24.0

)%

Total net revenues

$

2,236,859

$

1,740,912

28.5

%

Consolidated net revenues were $2.24 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $495.9 million
    compared to $1.74 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2005. The increase in net revenues was due
    primarily to an increase in casino revenue of
    $426.0 million. This increase is primarily attributable to
    the growth of our operations at The Sands Macao due primarily to
    the formal introduction of our Rolling Chip program in March
    2005 and the casino expansion in August 2006.

Casino revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006
    increased $426.0 million as compared the year ended
    December 31, 2005. Of the increase, $382.1 million was
    attributable to the growth of our casino operations at The



Sands Macao due primarily to the formal introduction of our
    Rolling Chip program in March 2005 and casino expansion in
    August 2006. The following table summarizes the results of
    our casino revenue activity:

Year Ended December 31,



Change

(In thousands, except for percentages)

The Sands Macao

Total casino revenues

$

1,264,290

$

882,175

43.3

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games drop

$

4,178,655

$

4,002,635

4.4

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games win
    percentage

18.6

%

16.5

%

2.1

pts

Rolling Chip volume

$

17,114,962

$

9,982,942

71.4

%

Rolling Chip win percentage

3.2

%

2.4

%

0.8

pts

Slot handle

$

1,048,795

$

720,085

45.6

%

Slot hold percentage

7.7

%

8.4

%

(0.7

)pts

The Venetian

Total casino revenues

$

411,771

$

367,915

11.9

%

Table games drop

$

1,266,931

$

1,184,468

7.0

%

Table games win percentage

22.0

%

20.0

%

2.0

pts

Slot handle

$

2,136,267

$

2,039,224

4.8

%

Slot hold percentage

6.2

%

6.3

%

(0.1

)pts

In our experience, average win percentages remain steady when
    measured over extended periods of time, but can vary
    considerably within shorter time periods as a result of the
    statistical variances that are associated with games of chance
    in which large amounts are wagered.

Room revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006
    increased $27.0 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2005. The increase was attributable to the
    increase in the average daily room rate as well as a slight
    increase in the occupancy rate. The following table summarizes
    the results of our room revenue activity:

Year Ended December 31,



Change

The Venetian

Average daily room rate

$


$



.2

%

Occupancy rate

98.7

%

97.3

%


.4

pts

Revenue per available room

$


$



.3

%

Food and beverage revenues were $187.8 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $40.3 million
    as compared to $147.5 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2005. The increase was primarily attributable
    to food and beverage revenues at The Venetian, which increased
    $32.2 million due to increased group business resulting
    primarily from approximately 450,000 square feet of
    additional meeting space at the property.

Convention, retail and other revenues for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 increased $22.6 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in
    primarily attributable to $7.6 million of additional
    convention revenues from The Sands Expo Center and
    $10.4 million in revenues associated with the Blue Man
    Group, the Phantom of the Opera and the Gordie Brown
    performances, which began in October 2005, June 2006 and October
    2006, respectively.



Operating
    Expenses

The breakdown of operating expenses is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands, except for percentages)

Operating Expenses

Casino

$

925,033

$

656,590

40.9

%

Rooms

85,651

82,058

4.4

%

Food and beverage

89,113

76,736

16.1

%

Convention, retail and other

64,315

58,068

10.8

%

Provision for doubtful accounts

18,067

9,358

93.1

%

General and administrative

230,355

192,806

19.5

%

Corporate expense

59,570

38,297

55.5

%

Rental expense

13,478

14,841

(9.2

)%

Pre-opening expense

37,673

3,732

909.5

%

Development expense

26,112

22,238

17.4

%

Depreciation and amortization

110,771

95,296

16.2

%

Loss on disposal of assets

2,624

1,441

82.1

%

Total operating expenses

$

1,662,762

$

1,251,461

32.9

%

Operating expenses were $1.66 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, an increase of $411.3 million as
    compared to $1.25 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2005. The increase in operating expenses was
    primarily attributable to the higher operating revenues and
    growth of our operating businesses in Macao and to a lesser
    extent in Las Vegas, as more fully described below.

Casino department expenses for the year ended December 31,
    2006 increased $268.4 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2005. Of the increase in casino expenses,
    $176.1 million was due to the 39.0% gross win tax on casino
    revenues in Macao. Despite the higher gross win tax, casino
    operating margins at The Sands Macao are similar to those at The
    Venetian primarily because of lower labor, marketing and sales
    expenses in Macao. As the Rolling Chip volume increases as a
    percentage of our total gaming operations, casino margins will
    decrease due to the commissions paid under the Rolling Chip
    program. The remaining increase was primarily attributable to
    the additional payroll related expenses related to the continued
    growth of our operations at The Sands Macao and the casino
    expansion in August 2006.

Food and beverage expense increased $12.4 million and
    convention, retail and other expense increased
    $6.2 million. These increases were primarily due to the
    associated increase in the respective revenue categories as
    noted above.

The provision for doubtful accounts was $18.1 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to
    $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, due
    primarily to an increase in casino and hotel receivables during
    the year. The amount of this provision can vary over short
    periods of time because of factors specific to the customers who
    owe us money from gaming activities at any given time. We
    believe that the amount of our provision for doubtful accounts
    in the future will depend upon the state of the economy, our
    credit standards, our risk assessments and the judgment of our
    employees responsible for granting credit.

General and administrative expenses for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 increased $37.6 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was
    attributable to the growth of our operating businesses in Las
    Vegas and Macao as well as $7.1 million related to
    stock-based compensation expense recorded in connection with the
    adoption of SFAS No. 123R.

Corporate expense for the year ended December 31, 2006
    increased $21.3 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2005. Of the increase in corporate expense,
    $19.5 million was related to payroll and other



operating expenses as we increase our headcount in the corporate
    area to support our continued expansion activities and
    $5.4 million related to stock-based compensation recorded
    in connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 123R,
    partially offset by a $5.0 million charitable contribution
    that was made in 2005 that did not recur in 2006.

Pre-opening and development expenses were $37.7 million and
    $26.1 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, compared to $3.7 million and
    $22.2 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2005. Pre-opening expense represents personnel
    and other costs incurred prior to the opening of new ventures
    which are expensed as incurred. Pre-opening expenses for the
    year ended December 31, 2006 were primarily related to The
    Venetian Macao project and to the expansion of The Sands Macao.
    Development expense includes the costs associated with the
    Company’s evaluation and pursuit of new business
    opportunities, which are also expensed as incurred. Development
    expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006 were
    primarily related to our activities in Singapore, Pennsylvania
    and Europe. We expect that pre-opening and development expenses
    will continue to increase as we progress with The Venetian Macao
    and other Cotai Strip projects in Macao, The Palazzo in Las
    Vegas, Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, Hengqin Island and
    Pennsylvania, as well as our continued pursuit of development
    opportunities elsewhere.

Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 increased $15.5 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was
    primarily due to additional depreciation expense as a result of
    capital improvements at The Venetian and The Sands Macao.

Interest
    Expense

The following table summarizes information related to interest
    expense on long-term debt:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands, except for percentages)

Interest cost

$

230,447

$

118,992

Less: Capitalized interest

(94,594

)

(22,700

)

Interest expense, net

$

135,853

$

96,292

Cash paid for interest

$

215,975

$

111,066

Average total debt balance

$

2,898,936

$

1,520,913

Weighted average interest rate

7.9

%

7.8

%

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 increased $39.6 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase is
    primarily attributable to an increase in our average long-term
    debt balances resulting primarily from the completion of the
    $2.5 billion Macao credit facility, in May 2006, to support
    our development activities in Macao and the $1.44 billion
    Singapore bridge facility, in August 2006, to support the
    development of the Marina Bay Sands. We expect interest expense
    will continue to increase as our long-term debt balances and
    interest rates increase. This increase was offset by the
    capitalization of $94.6 million of interest during the year
    ended December 31, 2006, compared to $22.7 million of
    capitalized interest during the year ended December 31,
    2005. We expect capitalized interest will continue to increase
    as The Venetian Macao and The Palazzo projects approach their
    anticipated 2007 opening dates and as we increase our
    construction activities on the Cotai Strip, at Marina Bay Sands
    and Sands Bethworks.

Other
    Factors Affecting Earnings

Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was
    $66.2 million, an increase of $33.1 million as
    compared to $33.1 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2005. The increase was attributable to
    additional invested cash balances, primarily from our borrowings
    under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Macao credit
    facility.

The loss on early retirement of debt of $137.0 million
    during the year ended December 31, 2005 was the result of
    the redemption of Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    $843.6 million in aggregate principal amount of 11%
    mortgage notes and VML’s $120.0 million in aggregate
    principal amount of senior secured notes.



Our effective income tax rate for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 was 12.3%. The effective tax rate for the
    year was significantly lower than the federal statutory rate due
    primarily to a zero effective tax rate on our Macao net income
    as a result of a temporary income tax exemption in Macao on
    gaming operations, which is set to expire at the end of 2008.
    The effective tax rate was 1.5% for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 primarily due to the tax benefit
    associated with the loss on early retirement of debt in the 2005
    period, as well as the application of the aforementioned Macao
    temporary income tax exemption.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year Ended
    December 31, 2004

Operating
    Revenues

Our net revenues consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands, except for percentages)

Net Revenues

Casino

$

1,250,090

$

708,564

76.4

%

Rooms

323,560

312,003

3.7

%

Food and beverage

147,510

121,566

21.3

%

Convention, retail and
    other

(1)

103,065

116,437

(11.5

)%

$

1,824,225

$

1,258,570

44.9

%

Less — promotional
    allowances

(83,313

)

(61,514

)

(35.4

)%

Total net revenues

$

1,740,912

$

1,197,056

45.4

%

(1)

The Grand Canal Shops mall was sold and certain other retail and
    restaurant venues were leased to GGP on May 17, 2004.

Consolidated net revenues were $1.74 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2005, an increase of $543.9 million
    compared to $1.2 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2004. The increase in net revenues was due
    primarily to an increase in casino revenue of
    $541.5 million. This increase is attributable to our
    operation of The Sands Macao for a full year in 2005, compared
    to just over seven months in 2004. The increase in net revenues
    was partially offset by a decrease in convention, retail and
    other revenue of $13.4 million, primarily as a result of
    the sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall and the lease of certain
    other retail and restaurant venues on May 17, 2004.

Casino revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005
    increased $541.5 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2004. Of the increase, $494.6 million was
    attributable to the operation of The Sands Macao for a full year
    in 2005, compared to just over seven months in 2004 and the
    increased volumes associated with the introduction of the
    Rolling Chip program in March 2005. In addition, there was a
    $46.9 million increase at The Venetian due to an increase
    in table game drop of $161.6 million and an increase of
    2.7 percentage points in our win percentage. In our
    experience, average win percentages remain steady when measured
    over extended periods of time, but can vary considerably within
    shorter time periods as a result of the statistical variances
    that are associated with games of chance in which large amounts
    are wagered.

Room revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005
    increased $11.6 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2004. The increase was attributable to the
    increase in average daily room rate from $220 in 2004 to $225 in
    2005 as well as a slight increase in occupancy rate from 97.0%
    in 2004 to 97.3% in 2005 at The Venetian. The Venetian generated
    revenue per available room of $218 for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 as compared to $213 for the year ended
    December 31, 2004.

Food and beverage revenues for the year ended December 31,
    2005 increased $25.9 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2004. Of this increase, $15.2 million was
    attributable to increased business volumes at The Sands Macao as
    well as a full year of operations versus just over seven months
    in the prior year. Food and beverage revenues at The Venetian
    increased $10.7 million due to increased hotel occupancy
    and general group business at the property.



Convention, retail and other revenues for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 decreased $13.4 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2004. Convention, retail and
    other revenues during 2004 include revenue of $15.9 million
    related to the operations of The Grand Canal Shops mall and the
    lease of retail outlets in The Venetian. The Grand Canal Shops
    mall was sold and certain other retail and restaurant venues
    were leased to GGP on May 17, 2004.

Operating
    Expenses

The breakdown of operating expenses is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands, except for percentages)

Operating Expenses

Casino

$

656,590

$

340,241

93.0

%

Rooms

82,058

77,249

6.2

%

Food and beverage

76,736

64,176

19.6

%

Convention, retail and
    other

(1)

58,068

60,055

(3.3

)%

Provision for doubtful accounts

9,358

7,959

17.6

%

General and administrative

192,806

173,088

11.4

%

Corporate expense

38,297

126,356

(69.7

)%

Rental expense

14,841

12,033

23.3

%

Pre-opening expense

3,732

19,025

(80.4

)%

Development expense

22,238

14,901

49.2

%

Depreciation and amortization

95,296

69,432

37.3

%

Loss on disposal of assets

1,441

31,649

(95.4

)%

Gain on sale of The Grand Canal
    Shops mall

—

(417,576

)

—

Total operating expenses

$

1,251,461

$

578,588

116.3

%

(1)

The Grand Canal Shops mall was sold and certain other retail and
    restaurant venues were leased to GGP on May 17, 2004.

Operating expenses were $1.25 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2005, compared to $578.6 million for the
    year ended December 31, 2004. Excluding the gain on the
    sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall, total operating expenses for
    the year ended December 31, 2004 were $996.2 million.
    The increase in operating expenses was primarily attributable to
    the higher operating revenues and business volumes associated
    with the opening and operations of The Sands Macao. This
    increase was partially offset by a decrease in corporate expense
    of $88.1 million, related to $63.2 million of
    incentive payments paid to certain of our executives in July
    2004 from the Phase II mall sale and a $49.2 million
    stock-based compensation expense resulting from stock options
    granted during July 2004.

Casino department expenses for the year ended December 31,
    2005 increased $316.3 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily attributable
    to the additional casino expenses related to the opening of The
    Sands Macao in May 2004, a full year of expenses from that
    property during the 2005 period and increased slot machine and
    table games volume at The Venetian. Of the $316.3 million
    increase in casino expenses, $229.6 million was due to the
    39.0% gross win tax on casino revenues in Macao. Despite the
    higher gross win tax, casino operating margins at The Sands
    Macao are similar to those at The Venetian primarily because of
    lower labor, marketing and sales expenses in Macao. Food and
    beverage expense increased $12.6 million, primarily related
    to the increased food and beverage revenue noted above.

The provision for doubtful accounts was $9.4 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to
    $8.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The
    amount of this provision can vary over short periods of time
    because of factors specific to the customers who owe us money
    from gaming activities at any given time. We believe



that the amount of our provision for doubtful accounts in the
    future will depend upon the state of the economy, our credit
    standards, our risk assessments and the judgment of our
    employees responsible for granting credit.

General and administrative costs increased $19.7 million,
    primarily as a result of the full year of operations for The
    Sands Macao in 2005 as compared to just over seven months in
    2004.

Corporate expense for the year ended December 31, 2005
    decreased $88.1 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily the result of
    $112.4 million of expenses related to incentive payments
    paid to certain of our executives in July 2004 from the
    Phase II mall sale and stock-based compensation expense
    resulting from stock options granted during July 2004, partially
    offset by a $5.0 million charitable contribution during the
    first quarter of 2005 and the addition of corporate staff in the
    2005 period, including the reassignment of some employees from
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC to Las Vegas Sands Corp. as we built
    our corporate infrastructure as a new public company.

Pre-opening and development expenses were $3.7 million and
    $22.2 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2005, compared to $19.0 million and
    $14.9 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2004. Pre-opening expense for the year ended
    December 31, 2004 included $18.0 million related to
    The Sands Macao which opened in May 2004. Pre-opening expense
    for the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily related to
    The Venetian Macao and The Palazzo projects. We expect that
    pre-opening expense will increase as these projects get closer
    to their 2007 opening dates. The increase in development
    expenses was primarily related to our activities in Macao, the
    United Kingdom, Singapore and Pennsylvania.

Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 increased $25.9 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was
    primarily the result of placing into service assets of The Sands
    Macao during the second quarter of 2004 and a full year of
    depreciation expense from that property during 2005 and due to
    various expansion projects placed into service at The Venetian,
    including new luxury suites, an entertainment theater and
    meeting rooms. In addition, there was $7.0 million of
    cumulative depreciation expense related to amounts capitalized
    in connection with litigation settlements related to the
    original construction of The Venetian recorded during 2005.

The loss on disposal of assets for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 was $1.4 million as compared to
    $31.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
    The loss on disposal of assets of $31.6 million in 2004
    resulted primarily from the demolition of space to accommodate
    the construction of a showroom at The Venetian.

Interest
    Expense

The following table summarizes information related to interest
    expense on long-term debt:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands, except for percentages)

Interest cost

$

118,992

$

142,678

Less: Capitalized interest

(22,700

)

(4,601

)

Interest expense, net

$

96,292

$

138,077

Cash paid for interest

$

111,066

$

128,641

Average total debt balance

$

1,520,913

$

1,620,134

Weighted average interest rate

7.8

%

8.8

%

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 decreased $41.8 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2004. Of the net interest
    expense incurred for the year ended December 31, 2005,
    $70.8 million was related to The Venetian,
    $4.7 million was related to The Sands Macao,
    $12.7 million was related to litigation settlements and
    $8.1 million was related to The Sands Expo Center. This
    decrease is primarily attributable to the replacement of a
    higher fixed rate debt instrument with lower variable rate bank
    debt. During the first quarter of 2005, we retired Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s $843.6 million in aggregate principal
    amount of 11% mortgage notes and VML’s $120.0 million
    in aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes. In



addition, during the first quarter of 2005, we increased our
    borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facility and issued
    $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of
    6.375% Senior Notes. The decrease was also due to the
    capitalization of $22.7 million of interest during the year
    ended December 31, 2005, compared to $4.6 million of
    capitalized interest during the year ended December 31,
    2004. We capitalized interest costs associated with our
    construction projects, principally The Venetian Macao and The
    Palazzo. We expect that capitalized interest will continue to
    increase as the projects approach their planned openings in 2007.

Other
    Factors Affecting Earnings

Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was
    $33.1 million, an increase of $25.4 million as
    compared to $7.7 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2004. The increase was due to the increase in
    invested cash and cash equivalent balances, primarily from our
    December 2004 initial public offering and our 2005 borrowings
    under Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility.

The loss on early retirement of debt of $137.0 million
    during the year ended December 31, 2005 was the result of
    the redemption of Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    $843.6 million in aggregate principal amount of 11%
    mortgage notes and VML’s $120.0 million in aggregate
    principal amount of senior secured notes.

Our effective income tax rate for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 was 1.5%. The effective tax rate for the
    year is significantly lower than the federal statutory rate due
    primarily to a zero effective tax rate on our Macao net income
    as a result of a temporary income tax exemption in Macao, which
    is to expire at the end of 2008. Prior to December 2004, Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. had elected to be taxed as an
    S corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries were either
    limited liability companies or S corporations, each of
    which was a pass-through entity for federal income tax purposes.



Liquidity
    and Capital Resources

Cash
    Flows — Summary

Our cash flows consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Net cash provided by (used in)
    operations

$

(196,720

)

$

589,916

$

373,369

Investing cash flows:

Proceeds from sale of The Grand
    Canal Shops mall, net of transaction costs

—

—

649,568

Capital expenditures

(1,925,291

)

(860,621

)

(465,748

)

Change in restricted cash

(310,565

)

(265,386

)

(235,675

)

Change in receivables from
    shareholders

—

—


Net cash used in investing
    activities

(2,235,856

)

(1,126,007

)

(51,650

)

Financing cash flows:

Proceeds from initial public
    offering of common stock, net of transactions costs

—

(487

)

739,193

Dividends paid to stockholders

—

(21,052

)

(125,027

)

Proceeds from exercise of stock
    options

7,226


11,964

Repayments of long-term debt

(132,746

)

(969,127

)

(561,566

)

Proceeds from long term-debt

2,619,995

812,222

785,000

Other

(51,493

)

(124,587

)

(29,178

)

Net cash provided by (used in)
    financing activities

2,442,982

(302,718

)

820,386

Effect of exchange rate on cash



—

Net increase (decrease) in cash
    and cash equivalents

$

11,220

$

(838,052

)

$

1,142,105

Cash
    Flows — Operating Activities

The Venetian’s slot machine and retail hotel rooms
    businesses are generally conducted on a cash basis, its table
    games and group hotel businesses are conducted on a cash and
    credit basis and its banquet business is conducted primarily on
    a credit basis resulting in operating cash flows being generally
    affected by changes in operating income and accounts
    receivables. The Sands Macao table games and slot machine play
    is currently conducted primarily on a cash basis. Net cash used
    by operating activities for the year ended December 31,
    2006 was $196.7 million, a decrease of $786.6 million
    as compared to the net cash provided by operating activities of
    $589.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.
    The primary factor contributing to the net cash used by
    operating activities was a one-time $786.7 million land
    concession payments made to the Singapore government for the
    Marina Bay Sands project in conjunction with the signing of the
    development agreement in August 2006.

Cash
    Flows — Investing Activities

Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2006
    totaled $1.93 billion. This includes $98.5 million for
    construction and development activities at The Sands Macao,
    $1.02 billion for construction and development activities
    at The Venetian Macao, $100.7 million in construction and
    development activities at the other Macao development projects,
    $530.5 million for construction and development activities
    at The Palazzo, $109.1 million on expansions, improvements
    and maintenance capital expenditures at The Venetian and The
    Sands Expo Center in Las Vegas, $49.5 million for corporate
    activities and $13.1 million for construction and
    development activities in Singapore.



Restricted cash increased $310.6 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, primarily as a result of adding
    $465.4 million in net restricted cash from the Macao credit
    facility to be used for Macao related construction, offset by a
    decrease of $174.8 million in net restricted cash used for
    The Palazzo related construction.

Cash
    Flows — Financing Activities

For the year ended December 31, 2006, net cash flows
    provided from financing activities were $2.44 billion,
    which were primarily attributable to net borrowings of
    $1.3 billion under the Macao credit facility,
    $892.1 million under the Singapore credit facility,
    $229.1 million under the senior secured revolving facility
    and $86.0 million from the Phase II Mall construction
    loan, $34.8 million from the FF&E credit facilities,
    offset by the repayment of the $50.0 million credit
    facility of Venetian Venture Development Intermediate Limited.

Capital
    and Liquidity

As of December 31, 2006, we held unrestricted cash and cash
    equivalents of $468.1 million. We expect to fund our
    operations, capital expenditures at The Venetian, The Sands Expo
    Center and The Sands Macao (other than The Sands Macao expansion
    construction) and debt service requirements from existing cash
    balances, operating cash flow and borrowings under our Las Vegas
    and Macao revolving credit facilities. We have a
    $450.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility in
    Las Vegas, of which $189.9 million was available as of
    December 31, 2006. We have a $500.0 million senior
    secured revolving credit facility in Macao for working capital
    needs; however under the Macao credit facility, we are required
    to secure the land concession in order to fully draw against the
    facility. We have asked our lenders to amend the Macao Credit
    Facility to remove this requirement, among others.

We are constructing The Palazzo and currently estimate that
    construction will be completed in fall 2007 and that our cost to
    develop and construct The Palazzo could reach as high as
    approximately $1.85 billion (exclusive of land, furniture,
    fixtures and equipment), of which the Phase II mall is
    expected to cost approximately $280.0 million (exclusive of
    certain incentive payments to executives made in July 2004). In
    addition, we expect that additional capital expenditures will be
    required to build out stores and restaurants located in The
    Palazzo. As of December 31, 2006, we had paid approximately
    $1.04 billion in design, development and construction costs
    for The Palazzo. We intend to use $374.8 million (plus the
    interest earnings) of the proceeds from the $970.0 million
    Term B Facility and $200.0 million from the Term B Delayed
    Draw Facility from the Senior Secured Credit Facility,
    $135.5 million of proceeds from the Phase II Mall
    construction loan, cash on hand, borrowings under the revolving
    facility under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and operating
    cash flow to fund the remaining development and construction
    costs for The Palazzo (including the Phase II mall) and to
    pay related fees and expenses.

In December 2006, the Company and a group of lenders, with
    General Electric Capital Corporation, as administrative agent
    for the lenders, entered into a $142.9 million credit
    facility, which included the refinancing of the previous
    FF&E facility of $7.9 million (the “FF&E Term
    Funded Credit Facility”) and an additional
    $135.0 million (the “FF&E Term Delayed Draw Credit
    Facility”). The proceeds from the FF&E Term Delayed
    Draw Credit Facility were and will be used to finance certain
    equipment, fixtures, furniture and other goods (the
    “Specified FF&E”) at The Palazzo and The Venetian
    and the facility is secured by the Specified FF&E and
    guaranteed by certain domestic subsidiaries of the Company. The
    FF&E Term Delayed Draw Credit Facility provides for a

54-month

delayed draw loan. Interest on this term loan is either
    three-month LIBOR plus 2.0% or base rate plus 1.0% and is
    payable quarterly. The FF&E Term Delayed Draw Credit
    Facility is subject to ten quarterly principal payments
    beginning on April 1, 2008 in an amount equal to 5.0% of
    the aggregate principal amount as of April 1, 2008, with
    the remaining amount due in four equal installments on
    October 1, 2010, January 1, 2011, April 1, 2011
    and June 15, 2011. As of December 31, 2006,
    $37.6 million has been drawn under the FF&E Term
    Delayed Draw Credit Facility.

We are in the early stages of constructing a high rise
    residential condominium tower, which will consist of
    approximately 270 luxury condominiums and will be situated
    between The Palazzo and The Venetian. The condominium tower is
    currently expected to open in late fall 2008 at an estimated
    cost ranging from $600.0 million to $700.0 million. We
    intend to obtain long-term financing in an amount necessary to
    fund the construction of the condominium tower.

On May 25, 2006, two of our subsidiaries, VML US Finance
    LLC (the “Borrower”) and Venetian Macau Limited, as
    guarantor, entered into a credit agreement (the “Macao
    Credit Facility”) for the funding of The Sands



Macao expansion, and partial funding for the construction of The
    Venetian Macao and some of our other Cotai Strip developments.
    The Macao Credit Facility consists of a $1.2 billion funded
    term B loan (the “Macao Term B Facility”), a
    $700.0 million delayed draw term B loan (the “Macao
    Term B Delayed Draw Facility”), a $100.0 million
    funded local currency term loan (the “Macao Local Term
    Facility”) and a $500.0 million revolving credit
    facility (the “Macao Revolving Facility”). As of
    December 31, 2006, $1.3 billion has been drawn under
    the Macao Term B Facility and the Macao Local Term Facility. As
    of December 31, 2006, no amounts are outstanding under the
    Macao Revolving Facility and no amounts have been drawn under
    the Macao Term B Delayed Draw Facility. In addition, the
    majority of The Sands Macao’s cash flows are expected to be
    used to finance a portion of the construction of The Venetian
    Macao and certain other Macao developments.

In February 2007, we received the final draft of the land
    concession agreement from the Macao government pursuant to which
    we were awarded a concession by lease for parcels 1, 2 and
    3 on the Cotai Strip, including the sites on which we are
    building The Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons hotel. We have
    accepted the conditions of the draft land concession and have
    made an initial premium payment of $106.5 million towards
    the aggregate land premium of $323.7 million. Additionally,
    $24.1 million has been paid or will be paid in the form of
    the cost of the reclamation work and other works done on the
    land and the installation costs of an electrical substation with
    the remaining amount payable over time. The land concession will
    not become effective until the date it is published in
    Macao’s Official Gazette. Once the land concession is
    effective, we will be required to make additional land premium
    and annual rent payments relating to parcels 1, 2 and 3 in
    the amounts and at the times specified in the land concession.
    We currently estimate that the cost of developing and building
    The Venetian Macao will be approximately $2.4 billion
    (exclusive of the aggregate land concession payment of
    $323.7 million for parcels 1, 2 and 3). If we are
    unable to obtain the amendment to the Macao Credit Facility
    described above, we will not be able to draw any further funds
    from the Macao Credit Facility in order to fund construction
    activities and we will have to seek additional financing for
    this purpose. Although we have not yet finalized our estimate of
    the costs of our other Cotai Strip developments, we expect the
    total cost of development on the Cotai Strip to be in the range
    of $9.0 billion to $11.0 billion. We will have to
    incur additional debt to finance completion of our Cotai Strip
    developments.

On August 18, 2006, MBS entered into agreements (together,
    the “Singapore Credit Facility”) providing for a
    SGD$1.1 billion (approximately US$717.3 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2006) floating rate notes facility (the “Singapore
    Floating Rate Notes”) and a SGD$1.1 billion
    (approximately US$717.3 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2006) term loan facility (the
    “Singapore Term Loan”). The Singapore Floating Rate
    Notes consist of a funded SGD$788.6 million (approximately
    US$514.2 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2006) facility and a
    SGD$315.4 million (approximately US$205.7 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) delayed
    draw facility. The Singapore Term Loan consists of a funded
    SGD$596.0 million (approximately US$388.7 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2006) facility, a SGD$315.4 million (approximately
    US$205.7 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2006) delayed draw facility, and a
    SGD$192.6 million (approximately US$125.6 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2006) facility to provide bank guarantees for a security
    deposit required to be delivered to the STB under the
    Development Agreement. As of December 31, 2006,
    SGD$798.2 million (approximately US$520.5 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) has
    been drawn on the Singapore Floating Rate Notes,
    SGD$603.5 million (approximately US$393.5 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) has
    been drawn on the Singapore Term Loan, and
    SGD$192.6 million (approximately US$125.6 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) under
    the Singapore Term Loan has been committed to provide a
    guarantee for a security deposit required to be delivered to the
    STB under the Development Agreement. The Singapore Credit
    Facility matures in August 2008.

We currently expect the cost to develop and construct the Marina
    Bay Sands will be approximately $3.6 billion, inclusive of
    the land premium, taxes and other fees previously paid. We
    entered into the Singapore Credit Facility to satisfy near-term
    development costs and some of our obligations under the
    Development Agreement. We intend to obtain long-term financing
    in an amount necessary to fund the construction of the Marina
    Bay Sands.

On December 20, 2006, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board
    announced that Sands Bethworks Gaming had been awarded a
    Pennsylvania gaming license. We will develop a gaming, hotel,
    shopping and dining complex located on the site of the Historic
    Bethlehem Steel Works in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. We currently
    expect the cost



to develop and construct the complex will be approximately
    $600.0 million. We intend to obtain long-term financing in
    an amount necessary to fund the construction of Sands Bethworks.

We have announced that we have agreed to purchase ten ferries at
    a cost of approximately $153.8 million to bring customers
    to and from the Cotai Strip, including The Venetian Macao and
    our other Cotai Strip developments. The first ferries are
    scheduled to be delivered in late 2007. We intend to obtain
    long-term financing in an amount sufficient to fund the purchase
    of the ferries.

Aggregate
    Indebtedness and Other Known Contractual Obligations

Our total long-term indebtedness and other known contractual
    obligations are summarized below as of December 31, 2006:

Payments Due by Period

Less than

More than

1 Year

2-3 Years

4-5 Years

5 Years

Total

(In thousands)

Long-Term Debt
    Obligations

Senior Secured Credit
    Facility — Term
    B

(1)

$

—

$

16,975

$

953,025

$

—

$

970,000

Senior Secured Credit
    Facility — Term B
    Delayed

(1)

—

3,500

196,500

—

200,000

Senior Secured Credit
    Facility — Revolving
    Facility

(1)

—

—

260,128

—

260,128

FF&E Credit
    Facility — Term
    Funded

(2)

1,800

5,595

—

—

7,395

FF&E Credit
    Facility — Term Delayed
    Draw

(2)

—

13,154

24,428

—

37,582

Phase II Mall Construction
    Loan

(3)

—

114,500

—

—

114,500

Macao Credit Facility —
    Term
    B

(4)

—

18,000

24,000

1,158,000

1,200,000

Macao Credit Facility —
    Local
    Term

(4)

—

37,500

62,500

—

100,000

Singapore Credit
    Facility — Term
    Loan

(5)

—

393,510

—

—

393,510

Singapore Credit
    Facility — Floating Rate
    Notes

(5)

—

520,502

—

—

520,502

The Sands Expo Center Mortgage
    Loan

(6)

4,686

86,182

—

—

90,868

6.375% Senior
    Notes

(7)

—

—

—

248,153

248,153

Fixed interest payments

15,937

31,875

31,875

50,469

130,156

Variable interest
    payments

(8)

271,430

454,962

291,916

103,469

1,121,777

Contractual
    Obligations

HVAC Provider fixed
    payments

(9)

6,826

10,238

—

—

17,064

Former
    Tenants

(10)


1,300

1,300

8,027

11,277

Employment
    Agreements

(11)

8,380

15,560

—

—

23,940

Macao Subsidiary Land
    Lease

(12)

2,988

3,150


2,758

9,220

Mall
    Leases

(13)

7,660

15,544

16,086

137,611

176,901

Macao Fixed Gaming
    Tax

(14)

9,363

18,727

18,727

98,317

145,134

Ferries Purchase
    Commitment

(15)

99,735

35,574

—

—

135,309

Parking Lot
    Lease

(16)

1,200

2,400

2,400

110,400

116,400

Other Operating
    Leases

(17)

16,584

20,411

1,526

2,757

41,278

Total

$

447,239

$

1,819,159

$

1,884,735

$

1,919,961

$

6,071,094

(1)

The Senior Secured Credit Facility consists of a
    $970.0 million single draw term B loan facility, a
    $200.0 million term B delayed draw facility that was fully
    drawn on August 19, 2005 and a $450.0 million
    revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2006, the
    amounts borrowed were $1.17 billion under the Term B
    facilities (including the delayed draw) and $260.1 million
    under the revolving credit facility. The term B



facility and delayed draw facility will mature on June 15,
    2011 and are subject to quarterly amortization payments
    commencing in the first quarter after substantial completion of
    The Palazzo. The revolving credit facility matures on
    February 22, 2010 and has no interim amortization. As of
    December 31, 2006, the amount available for borrowing under
    the revolving credit facility was $189.9 million.

(2)

The FF&E Credit Facility consists of a $7.9 million
    single draw term facility and a $135.0 million delayed draw
    term facility. At December 31, 2006, the amounts borrowed
    were $45.0 million under the facilities. The single draw
    term facility will mature on July 1, 2008 and is subject to
    quarterly amortization payments with one final payment of
    $3.7 million on October 1, 2008. The delayed draw term
    facility is subject to ten quarterly principal payments
    beginning on April 1, 2008 in an amount equal to 5.0% of
    the aggregate principal amount as of April 1, 2008, with
    the remaining amount due in four equal installments on
    October 1, 2010, January 1, 2011, April 1, 2011
    and June 15, 2011.

(3)

The Phase II Mall Construction Loan commitment is
    $250.0 million and is due March 30, 2008.

(4)

Amount represents the borrowings under the Macao Credit
    Facility, which consists of a $1.2 billion funded term B
    loan (the “Macao Term B Facility”), a
    $700.0 million delayed draw term B loan (the “Macao
    Term B Delayed Draw Facility”), a $100.0 million
    funded local currency term loan (the “Macao Local Term
    Facility”) and a $500.0 million revolving credit
    facility (the “Macao Revolving Facility”). As of
    December 31, 2006, no amounts are outstanding under the
    Macao Revolving Facility and no amounts have been drawn under
    the Macao Term B Delayed Draw Facility. The Macao Revolving
    Facility and the Macao Local Term Facility have a five year
    maturity. The Macao Term B Delayed Draw Facility and the Macao
    Term B Facility mature in six and seven years, respectively. The
    Macao Term B Delayed Draw Facility and the Macao Term B Facility
    are subject to nominal amortization for the first five and six
    years, respectively, in the first quarter following substantial
    completion of The Venetian Macao, with the remainder of the
    loans payable in four equal installments in the last year
    immediately preceding their respective maturity dates. Following
    the substantial completion of The Venetian Macao, the Macao
    Local Term Facility is subject to quarterly amortization in an
    amount of approximately $6.3 million per quarter, with the
    remainder of the loan payable in four equal installments in the
    last year immediately preceding the maturity date.

(5)

Amount represents the borrowings under the Singapore Credit
    Facility, which consists of a SGD$1.1 billion
    (approximately US$717.3 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2006) floating rate notes facility
    (the “Singapore Floating Rate Notes”) and a
    SGD$1.1 billion (approximately US$717.3 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) term
    loan facility (the “Singapore Term Loan”). The
    Singapore Floating Rate Notes consist of a funded
    SGD$788.6 million (approximately US$514.2 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2006) facility and a SGD$315.4 million (approximately
    US$205.7 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2006) delayed draw facility. The
    Singapore Term Loan consists of a funded SGD$596.0 million
    (approximately US$388.7 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2006) facility, a
    SGD$315.4 million (approximately US$205.7 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) delayed
    draw facility, and a SGD$192.6 million (approximately
    US$125.6 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2006) facility to provide bank guarantees
    in relation to a security deposit required to be delivered to
    the STB under the Development Agreement. The Singapore Credit
    Facility matures in full on August 22, 2008.

(6)

Principal payments will increase should Interface Group-Nevada
    achieve certain cash flow levels as defined in the loan
    agreement. The Sands Expo Center mortgage loan will mature on
    February 10, 2009 if all renewal options are exercised with
    monthly amortization payments.

(7)

The 6.375% Senior Notes are due on February 15, 2015.

(8)

Based on December 31, 2006 LIBOR rates of 5.4% plus the
    applicable interest rate spread in accordance with the
    respective debt agreements.

(9)

We are party to a services agreement with a third party for HVAC
    services for The Venetian. The total remaining payment
    obligation under this arrangement was $17.1 million as of
    December 31, 2006, payable in equal monthly installments
    through July 1, 2009. We have the right to terminate the
    agreement based upon the failure of the HVAC provider under this
    agreement to provide HVAC services. Upon the sale of The Grand
    Canal Shops mall on May 17, 2004, GGP assumed the
    responsibility for $1.6 million of annual payments to this
    HVAC provider.



(10)

We are party to tenant lease termination and asset purchase
    agreements. The total remaining payment obligation under these
    arrangements was $11.3 million as of December 31,
    2006. Under the agreement for The Grand Canal Shops mall sale,
    we are obligated to fulfill the lease termination and asset
    purchase agreements.

(11)

We are party to employment agreements with seven of our senior
    executives, with remaining terms of one to three years.

(12)

VML is party to a long-term land lease of 25 years. The
    total remaining payment obligation under this lease was
    $9.2 million as of December 31, 2006.

(13)

We are party to certain leaseback agreements for the Blue Man
    Group theater, gondola and certain office space related to The
    Grand Canal Shops mall sale. The total remaining payments due as
    of December 31, 2006 were $176.9 million.

(14)

In addition to the 39% gross gaming win tax in Macao (which is
    not included in this table as the amount we pay is variable in
    nature), we are required to pay an annual fixed gaming tax of
    approximately $9.4 million per year to the government of
    Macao through the termination of the gaming subconcession.

(15)

During 2006, we entered in commitments to purchase ten ferries
    to be built over the next two years for our Macao operations.
    The total remaining payment obligation as of December 31,
    2006 was $135.3 million.

(16)

We are party to a long-term lease agreement of 99 years for
    a parking structure located adjacent to The Venetian. As of
    December 31, 2006, total remaining payments due were
    $116.4 million.

(17)

We are party to certain operating leases for real estate,
    various equipment and service arrangements. The total remaining
    payments due as of December 31, 2006 were
    $41.3 million.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements

We have not entered into any transactions with special purpose
    entities, nor have we engaged in any derivative transactions
    other than simple interest rate caps. During 1997, we entered
    into operating lease arrangements with the HVAC provider. Under
    the terms of these operating lease agreements, we will purchase
    HVAC energy and services over initial terms expiring in 2009
    with an option to collectively extend the terms of these
    agreements for two consecutive five-year periods. We have fixed
    payment obligations due during the next twelve months of
    $6.8 million under the operating lease agreements with the
    HVAC provider.

The total remaining payment obligations under these arrangements
    was $17.1 million as of December 31, 2006, payable in
    equal monthly installments through July 1, 2009. We have
    the right to terminate the agreements based upon the failure of
    the HVAC provider to provide HVAC services. Upon the sale of The
    Grand Canal Shops mall on May 17, 2004, GGP assumed the
    responsibility for $1.6 million of annual payments to the
    HVAC provider. We have no other off-balance sheet arrangements.

Dividends

In 2004, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. declared and paid
    $107.9 million of dividends as tax distributions to all of
    its stockholders at the time, including its principal
    stockholder. In 2004, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. also declared a
    $21.1 million dividend to its stockholders which was paid
    in January 2005. These tax distributions were made in order to
    provide these stockholders with funds to pay taxes attributable
    to taxable income of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (including taxable
    income of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. associated with the sale of The
    Grand Canal Shops mall) that flowed through to them by virtue of
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s status as a subchapter
    S corporation for income tax purposes. As a result of its
    conversion to a taxable “C” corporation for income tax
    purposes, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (now known as Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC) is no longer making these tax distributions.

Immediately prior to the July 29, 2004 acquisition of
    Interface Group Holding Company, Inc. (“Interface
    Holding”) by Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Interface Holding
    distributed approximately $15.2 million to its sole
    stockholder. The distribution was comprised of
    $12.9 million of cash, $1.9 million of receivables due
    from the principal stockholder of Interface Holding and
    $0.4 million of certain fixed and other assets.



Restrictions
    on Distributions

We are a parent company with limited business operations. Our
    main asset is the stock and membership interests of our
    subsidiaries. The debt instruments of our principal operating
    subsidiary, Las Vegas Sands, LLC, contain significant
    restrictions on the payment of dividends and distributions to us
    by Las Vegas Sands, LLC. In particular, the Senior Secured
    Credit Facility prohibits Las Vegas Sands, LLC from paying
    dividends or making distributions to us, or investing in us,
    with limited exceptions. Las Vegas Sands, LLC may make certain
    distributions to us to cover taxes and certain reasonable and
    customary operating costs. In addition, Las Vegas Sands, LLC may
    make distributions to us in order to enable us to pay dividends
    on our common stock so long as construction of The Palazzo is
    substantially complete and certain financial leverage tests are
    satisfied, which distributions may not exceed $25.0 million
    or $50.0 million during any twelve-month period depending
    on our financial leverage ratio at the time of such
    distributions.

In addition, the debt instrument of our subsidiary,
    Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC (the “Phase II Mall
    Subsidiary”), restricts the payment of dividends and
    distributions to us. Subject to limited exceptions, the
    Phase II mall construction loan prohibits the Phase II
    Mall Subsidiary from paying dividends or making distributions to
    us, or making investments in us, other than tax distributions
    and a limited basket amount.

The debt instruments of our subsidiaries, including the Macao
    Credit Facility for the construction of The Venetian Macao and
    the Singapore Credit Facility for the construction of the Marina
    Bay Sands contain certain restrictions that, among other things,
    limit the ability of our company

and/or

certain subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, issue
    disqualified stock or equity interests, pay dividends or make
    other distributions, repurchase equity interests or certain
    indebtedness, create certain liens, enter into certain
    transactions with affiliates, enter into certain mergers or
    consolidations or sell some or all of our assets or the assets
    of the applicable company without prior approval of the lenders
    or noteholders. Financial covenants included in our Senior
    Secured Credit Facility and our Macao Credit Facility include a
    minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio, a
    minimum net worth covenant and maximum capital expenditure
    limitations. See “Item 8 — Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements —
    Note 8 — Long-Term Debt.”

Inflation

We believe that inflation and changing prices have not had a
    material impact on our net sales, revenues or income from
    continuing operations during the past three fiscal years.

Special
    Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This report contains forward-looking statements that are made
    pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements
    include the discussions of our business strategies and
    expectations concerning future operations, margins,
    profitability, liquidity, and capital resources. In addition, in
    certain portions included in this report, the words:
    “anticipates,” “believes,”
    “estimates,” “seeks,” “expects,”
    “plans,” “intends” and similar expressions,
    as they relate to our company or its management, are intended to
    identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that
    these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot
    assure you that any forward-looking statements will prove to be
    correct. These forward-looking statements involve known and
    unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause
    our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially
    different from any future results, performance or achievements
    expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

These factors include, among others, the risks associated with:

•

general economic and business conditions which may impact levels
    of disposable income, consumer spending and pricing of hotel
    rooms;

•

the uncertainty of tourist behavior related to spending and
    vacationing at casino resorts in Las Vegas and Macao;

•

disruptions or reductions in travel due to conflicts with Iraq
    and any future terrorist incidents;

•

outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as severe acute
    respiratory syndrome or avian flu, in our market areas;



•

our dependence upon three properties in two markets for all of
    our cash flow;

•

new developments, construction and ventures, including The
    Palazzo, The Venetian Macao and other Cotai Strip developments,
    Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, and Sands Bethworks;

•

our ability to obtain sufficient funding for our developments,
    including our developments on the Cotai Strip and in Singapore;

•

the passage of new legislation and receipt of governmental
    approvals for our proposed developments in Macao, Singapore and
    other jurisdictions where we are planning to operate;

•

our substantial leverage and debt service (including sensitivity
    to fluctuations in interest rates and other capital markets
    trends);

•

our insurance coverage, including the risk that we have not
    obtained sufficient coverage against acts of terrorism or will
    only be able to obtain additional coverage at significantly
    increased rates;

•

government regulation of the casino industry, including gaming
    license regulation, the legalization of gaming in certain
    domestic jurisdictions, including Native American reservations,
    and regulation of gaming on the Internet;

•

increased competition and additional construction in Las Vegas,
    including recent and upcoming increases in hotel rooms, meeting
    and convention space and retail space;

•

fluctuations in the demand for all-suites rooms, occupancy rates
    and average daily room rates in Las Vegas;

•

the popularity of Las Vegas as a convention and trade show
    destination;

•

new taxes or changes to existing tax rates;

•

our ability to meet certain development deadlines in Macao and
    Singapore;

•

our ability to maintain our gaming subconcession in Macao;

•

the completion of infrastructure projects in Macao;

•

increased competition and other planned construction projects in
    Macao; and

•

any future litigation.

All future written and verbal forward-looking statements
    attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are
    expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary
    statements contained or referred to in this section. New risks
    and uncertainties arise from time to time, and it is impossible
    for us to predict these events or how they may affect us.
    Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update
    any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as
    a result of new information, future events or developments,
    except as required by federal securities laws.

ITEM 7A. —

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
    RISK

Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in
    market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign
    currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Our primary
    exposure to market risk is interest rate risk associated with
    our long-term debt. We attempt to manage our interest rate risk
    by managing the mix of our long-term fixed-rate borrowings and
    variable rate borrowings, and by use of interest rate cap
    agreements. The ability to enter into interest rate cap
    agreements allows us to manage our interest rate risk associated
    with our variable rate debt. We do not hold or issue financial
    instruments for trading purposes and do not enter into
    derivative transactions that would be considered speculative
    positions. Our derivative financial instruments consist
    exclusively of interest rate cap agreements, which do not
    qualify for hedge accounting. Interest differentials resulting
    from these agreements are recorded on an accrual basis as an
    adjustment to interest expense.

To manage exposure to counterparty credit risk in interest rate
    cap agreements, we enter into agreements with highly rated
    institutions that can be expected to fully perform under the
    terms of such agreements. Frequently, these institutions are
    also members of the bank group providing our credit facilities,
    which management believes further minimizes the risk of
    nonperformance.



The table below provides information about our financial
    instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For
    debt obligations, the table presents notional amounts and
    weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates.
    Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments
    to be exchanged under the contract. Weighted average variable
    rates are based on December 31, 2006 LIBOR rates plus the
    applicable interest rate spread in accordance with the
    respective debt agreements. The information is presented in
    U.S. dollar equivalents, which is the Company’s
    reporting currency, for the years ending December 31:

Fair






Thereafter

Total

Value

(1)

(In millions, except for percentages)

LIABILITIES

Short-term debt

Variable rate

$

6.5

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

6.5

$

6.5

Average interest
    rate

(2)

8.6

%

—

—

—

—

—

8.6

%

8.6

%

Long term debt

Fixed rate

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

250.0

$

250.0

$

243.4

Average interest
    rate

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

6.4

%

6.4

%

6.8

%

Variable rate

$

—

$

1,153.1

$

56.2

$

897.7

$

622.9

$

1,158.0

$

3,887.9

$

3,887.9

Average interest
    rate

(2)

—

5.6

%

7.2

%

7.1

%

7.1

%

8.1

%

7.0

%

7.0

%

ASSETS

Cap
    Agreements

(3)

$

—

$

0.1

$

0.5

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

0.6

$

0.6

(1)

The fair values are based on the borrowing rates currently
    available for debt instruments with similar terms and maturities
    and market quotes of our publicly traded debt.

(2)

Based upon contractual interest rates for fixed rate
    indebtedness or current LIBOR rates for variable rate
    indebtedness.

(3)

As of December 31, 2006, we have five interest rate cap
    agreements with a fair value of $0.6 million based on a
    quoted market value from the institution holding the agreement.

Borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facility bear
    interest at our election at LIBOR plus 1.75% or the base rate
    plus 0.75% per annum, subject to downward adjustments based
    upon our credit rating. The weighted average interest rate for
    the Senior Secured Credit Facility was 7.0% for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Borrowings under the $250.0 million
    Phase II mall construction loan facility bear interest at
    our election at either a base rate plus 0.75% per annum or
    at LIBOR plus 1.75% per annum. The weighted average
    interest rate for the Phase II mall construction loan was
    7.1% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Borrowings under
    The Sands Expo Center mortgage loan bear interest at an interest
    rate equal to LIBOR plus 3.75%. The weighted average interest
    rate for The Sands Expo Center mortgage loan was 8.8% for the
    year ended December 31, 2006. Borrowings under the Macao
    Credit Facility bear interest at our election, at either an
    adjusted Eurodollar rate (or in the case of the Local Term Loan,
    adjusted HIBOR) plus 2.75% per annum or at an alternative
    base rate plus 1.75% per annum, and is subject to a
    downward adjustment of 0.25% per annum from the beginning
    of the first interest period following the substantial
    completion of The Venetian Macao. The weighted average interest
    rates for the Macao Local Term Facility and the Macao Term B
    Facility were 6.9% and 8.1%, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Borrowings under the Singapore Credit
    Facility bear interest at the Singapore SWAP Offer Rate plus a
    spread of 1.35% per annum during the first twelve months
    that amounts are outstanding and a spread of 1.6% per annum
    during the second twelve months that amounts are outstanding.
    The weighted average interest rate for the Singapore Floating
    Rate Notes and the Singapore Term loan was 5.0% for the year
    ended December 31, 2006.

Foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material
    to our results of operations for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, but may be in future periods in relation
    to activity associated with our Macao and Singapore
    subsidiaries. Therefore, we may be vulnerable to changes in
    U.S. dollar/pataca and U.S. dollar/Singapore dollar
    exchange rates. We do not hedge our exposure to foreign
    currency; however, we maintain a significant amount of our
    operating funds in the same currencies in which we have
    obligations thereby reducing our exposure to currency
    fluctuations.

See also “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 8 — Long Term
    Debt.”



ITEM 8. —

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Financial Statements:

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated
    Balance Sheets at December 31, 2006 and 2005


Consolidated
    Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the
    period ended December 31, 2006


Consolidated
    Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2006


Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the
    period ended December 31, 2006


Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial Statement Schedule:

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial
    Statement Schedule


Schedule II —
    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


The financial information included in the financial statement
    schedule should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
    financial statements. All other financial statement schedules
    have been omitted because they are not applicable or the
    required information is included in the consolidated financial
    statements or the notes thereto.



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Directors and Stockholders of Las Vegas Sands Corp.

We have completed integrated audits of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp.’s 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial statements and
    of its internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006 and an audit of its 2004 consolidated
    financial statements in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our
    opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.

Consolidated
    financial statements

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the accompanying index, present fairly, in all material
    respects, the financial position of Las Vegas Sands Corp. and
    its subsidiaries (the “Company”) at December 31,
    2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their
    cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America. These
    financial statements are the responsibility of the
    Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
    conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the
    standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
    audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test
    basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
    financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
    and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
    audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts
    for share-based payments in 2006.

Internal
    control over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in
    Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the
    Company maintained effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on criteria
    established in

Internal Control — Integrated
    Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”), is
    fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those
    criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained,
    in all material respects, effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on
    criteria established in

Internal Control —
    Integrated Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s
    management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
    control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
    responsibility is to express opinions on management’s
    assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We
    conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting
    in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
    require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
    assurance about whether effective internal control over
    financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An
    audit of internal control over financial reporting includes
    obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
    reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and
    evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
    control, and performing such other procedures as we consider
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
    provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made



only in accordance with authorizations of management and
    directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable
    assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Las Vegas, Nevada

February 27, 2007



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

December 31,



(In thousands, except  share data)

ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

468,066

$

456,846

Restricted cash

398,762

71,717

Accounts receivable, net

173,683

84,778

Inventories

12,291

9,967

Deferred income taxes

15,688

7,946

Prepaid expenses and other

25,067

13,452

Total current assets

1,093,557

644,706

Property and equipment, net

4,582,325

2,600,468

Deferred financing costs, net

70,381

30,973

Restricted cash

555,132

571,143

Deferred income taxes

—

11,332

Leasehold interest in land, net

801,195

—

Other assets, net

23,868

21,117

Total assets

$

7,126,458

$

3,879,739

LIABILITIES AND
    STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

51,038

$

34,803

Construction payables

329,375

163,932

Accrued interest payable

8,496

7,918

Other accrued liabilities

318,901

246,390

Income taxes payable

20,352

—

Current maturities of long-term
    debt

6,486

7,325

Total current liabilities

734,648

460,368

Other long-term liabilities

10,742

9,804

Deferred income taxes


—

Deferred gain on sale of The Grand
    Canal Shops mall

64,665

68,129

Deferred rent from The Grand Canal
    Shops mall transaction

104,773

105,999

Long-term debt

4,136,152

1,625,901

Total liabilities

5,051,304

2,270,201

Commitments and contingencies
    (Note 11)

Stockholders’ equity:

Common stock, $.001 par
    value, 1,000,000,000 shares authorized, 354,492,452 and
    354,179,580 shares issued and outstanding



Capital in excess of par value

990,429

964,660

Deferred compensation

—

(150

)

Accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss)

(580

)

1,726

Retained earnings

1,084,951

642,948

Total stockholders’ equity

2,075,154

1,609,538

Total liabilities and
    stockholders’ equity

$

7,126,458

$

3,879,739

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands, except share and per share data)

Revenues:

Casino

$

1,676,061

$

1,250,090

$

708,564

Rooms

350,606

323,560

312,003

Food and beverage

187,819

147,510

121,566

Convention, retail and other

125,692

103,065

116,437

2,340,178

1,824,225

1,258,570

Less-promotional allowances

(103,319

)

(83,313

)

(61,514

)

Net revenues

2,236,859

1,740,912

1,197,056

Operating expenses:

Casino

925,033

656,590

340,241

Rooms

85,651

82,058

77,249

Food and beverage

89,113

76,736

64,176

Convention, retail and other

64,315

58,068

60,055

Provision for doubtful accounts

18,067

9,358

7,959

General and administrative

230,355

192,806

173,088

Corporate expense

59,570

38,297

126,356

Rental expense

13,478

14,841

12,033

Pre-opening expense

37,673

3,732

19,025

Development expense

26,112

22,238

14,901

Depreciation and amortization

110,771

95,296

69,432

Loss on disposal of assets

2,624

1,441

31,649

Gain on sale of The Grand Canal
    Shops mall

—

—

(417,576

)

1,662,762

1,251,461

578,588

Operating income

574,097

489,451

618,468

Other income (expense):

Interest income

66,191

33,111

7,740

Interest expense, net of amounts
    capitalized

(135,853

)

(96,292

)

(138,077

)

Other expense

(189

)

(1,334

)

(131

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

—

(137,000

)

(6,553

)

Income before income taxes

504,246

287,936

481,447

Benefit (provision) for income taxes

(62,243

)

(4,250

)

13,736

Net income

$

442,003

$

283,686

$

495,183

Basic earnings per share

$

1.25

$

0.80

$

1.52

Diluted earnings per share

$

1.24

$

0.80

$

1.52

Dividends declared per share

$

—

$

—

$

0.44

Weighted average shares outstanding:

Basic

354,277,941

354,161,165

326,486,740

Diluted

355,264,444

354,526,604

326,848,911

Unaudited pro forma data
    (reflecting change in tax status):

Net income before income taxes

$

481,447

Provision for income taxes

(141,737

)

Net income

$

339,710

Pro forma net income per share of
    common stock (reflecting change in tax status):

Basic

$

1.04

Diluted

$

1.04

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated
    Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive
    Income

Accumulated

Common Stock

Capital

Other

Number

Receivables

in Excess

Comprehensive

of

from

of Par

Deferred

Income

Retained

Shares

Amount

Stockholders

Value

Compensation

(Loss)

Earnings

Total

(In thousands, except share data)

Balance at January 1,

324,658,394

$


$

(2,113

)

$

155,607

$

—

$

—

$

8,289

$

162,108

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

495,183

495,183

Capital contributions

—

—

—


—

—

—


Dividends

—

—

—

—

—

—

(144,210

)

(144,210

)

Receivables from stockholders

—

—

2,113

—

—

—

—

2,113

Issuances of stock options

—

—

—

49,230

—

—

—

49,230

Exercises of stock options

2,121,345


—

11,962

—

—

—

11,964

Issuance of common stock in
    connection with initial public offering, net of transaction
    costs of $54,855

27,380,953


—

739,166

—

—

—

739,193

Balance at December 31,

354,160,692


—

956,385

—

—

359,262

1,316,001

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

283,686

283,686

Currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

1,726

—

1,726

Total comprehensive income

285,412

Exercises of stock options

10,800

—

—


—

—

—


Tax benefit from stock option
    exercises

—

—

—

8,149

—

—

—

8,149

Issuance of restricted stock

8,088

—

—


(300

)

—

—

—

Amortization of deferred
    compensation

—

—

—

—


—

—


Initial public offering transaction
    costs

—

—

—

(487

)

—

—

—

(487

)

Balance at December 31,

354,179,580


—

964,660

(150

)

1,726

642,948

1,609,538

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

442,003

442,003

Currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

(2,306

)

—

(2,306

)

Total comprehensive income

439,697

Exercises of stock options

240,912

—

—

7,226

—

—

—

7,226

Tax benefit from stock option
    exercises

—

—

—

1,876

—

—

—

1,876

Stock-based compensation

—

—

—

16,667


—

—

16,817

Issuance of restricted stock

71,960

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Balance at December 31,

354,492,452

$


$

—

$

990,429

$

—

$

(580

)

$

1,084,951

$

2,075,154

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Cash flows from operating
    activities:

Net income

$

442,003

$

283,686

$

495,183

Adjustments to reconcile net
    income to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

110,771

95,296

69,432

Amortization of deferred financing
    costs and original issue discount

13,894

9,192

9,818

Amortization of deferred gain and
    rent

(4,690

)

(4,692

)

(2,926

)

Deferred rent from The Grand Canal
    Shops mall transaction

—

—

109,220

Loss on early retirement of debt

—

137,000

6,553

Loss on disposal of assets

2,624

1,441

31,649

Stock-based compensation expense

14,728


49,230

Gain on sale of The Grand Canal
    Shops mall

—

—

(417,576

)

Provision for doubtful accounts

18,067

9,358

7,959

Tax benefit from stock option
    exercises

(1,401

)

8,149

—

Deferred income taxes

3,914

(5,542

)

(13,736

)

Changes in operating assets and
    liabilities:

Accounts receivable

(106,972

)

(37,554

)

(10,344

)

Inventories

(2,324

)

(1,957

)

(1,759

)

Prepaid expenses and other

(13,124

)

(2,457

)

(17,746

)

Leasehold interest in land

(786,700

)

—

—

Accounts payable

16,235

1,420

13,479

Accrued interest payable


(1,269

)

4,378

Other accrued liabilities

73,449

97,695

40,555

Income taxes payable

22,228

—

—

Net cash provided by (used in)
    operating activities

(196,720

)

589,916

373,369

Cash flows from investing
    activities:

Proceeds from sale of The Grand
    Canal Shops mall, net of transaction costs

—

—

649,568

Change in restricted cash

(310,565

)

(265,386

)

(235,675

)

Change in receivables from
    stockholders

—

—


Capital expenditures

(1,925,291

)

(860,621

)

(465,748

)

Net cash used in investing
    activities

(2,235,856

)

(1,126,007

)

(51,650

)

Cash flows from financing
    activities:

Proceeds from initial public
    offering of common stock, net of transaction costs

—

(487

)

739,193

Dividends paid to shareholders

—

(21,052

)

(125,027

)

Proceeds from exercise of stock
    options

7,226


11,964

Contributions from shareholders

—

—


Tax benefit from stock option
    exercises

1,401

—

—

Repayments on 11% mortgage notes

—

(843,640

)

(6,360

)

Proceeds from 6.375% senior
    notes, net of discount

—

247,722

—

Proceeds from senior secured
    credit facility-term B

—

305,000

665,000

Proceeds from senior secured
    credit facility-term B delayed

—

200,000

—

Proceeds from Venetian
    Intermediate credit facility

—

—

10,000

Proceeds from Venetian Macao
    Limited revolver

—

—

10,000

Proceeds from The Sands Expo
    Center mortgage loan

—

—

100,000



Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Proceeds from Macao credit facility

1,350,000

—

—

Proceeds from Singapore credit
    facility

892,076

—

—

Proceeds from senior secured
    credit facility-revolver

254,129

31,000

—

Proceeds from phase II mall
    construction loan

86,000

28,500

—

Proceeds from FF&E credit
    facility and other long term debt

37,790

—

—

Repayments on Venetian
    Intermediate credit facility

(50,000

)

—

—

Repayments on Macao credit facility

(50,000

)

—

—

Repayments on senior secured
    credit facility-revolver

(25,000

)

—

—

Repayments on The Sands Expo
    Center mortgage loan

(4,733

)

(3,687

)

(711

)

Repayments on FF&E credit
    facility and other long-term debt

(3,013

)

(1,800

)

(2,400

)

Repayments on secured mall facility

—

—

(120,000

)

Repayments on senior secured
    credit facility-term A and B-prior

—

—

(294,583

)

Repayments on Venetian Macao
    Limited senior secured notes- tranches A and B

—

(120,000

)

—

Repayments on Venetian Macao
    Limited revolver

—

—

(10,000

)

Repayments on Interface
    Group-Nevada note payable

—

—

(127,512

)

Repurchase premiums incurred in
    connection with refinancing transactions

—

(113,311

)

—

Payments of deferred financing
    costs

(52,894

)

(11,276

)

(29,598

)

Net cash provided by (used in)
    financing activities

2,442,982

(302,718

)

820,386

Effect of exchange rate on cash



—

Increase (decrease) in cash and
    cash equivalents

11,220

(838,052

)

1,142,105

Cash and cash equivalents at
    beginning of year

456,846

1,294,898

152,793

Cash and cash equivalents at end
    of year

$

468,066

$

456,846

$

1,294,898

Supplemental disclosure of cash
    flow information:

Cash payments for interest

$

215,975

$

111,066

$

128,641

Cash payments for taxes

$

34,750

$

—

$

—

Non-cash investing and
    financing activities:

Property and equipment asset
    acquisitions included in construction payables

$

329,375

$

163,932

$

87,376

Utilization of deposit to purchase
    property and equipment

$

—

$

10,000

$

—

Property and equipment
    acquisitions included in accounts payable

$

—

$

—

$

3,225

Non-cash distribution to principal
    shareholder

$

—

$

—

$

2,329

Declared and unpaid dividends
    included in accrued liabilities

$

—

$

—

$

21,052

Deferred gain on sale of The Grand
    Canal Shops mall

$

—

$

—

$

77,217

Decrease in other assets related
    to The Grand Canal Shops mall sale

$

—

$

—

$

13,569

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 —

Organization
    and Business of Company

Las Vegas Sands Corp. (“LVSC” or the
    “Company”) was incorporated in Nevada during August
    2004 and completed an initial public offering of its common
    stock in December 2004. Immediately prior to the initial public
    offering LVSC acquired 100% of the capital stock of Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc., which was converted into a Nevada limited liability
    company, Las Vegas Sands, LLC (“LVSLLC”) in July 2005.
    The acquisition of LVSLLC by LVSC has been accounted for as a
    reorganization of entities under common control, in a manner
    similar to

pooling-of-interests.

LVSC’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock
    Exchange under the symbol “LVS.”

Operations

The Company owns and operates The Venetian Resort Hotel Casino
    (“The Venetian”), a Renaissance Venice-themed resort
    situated on the Las Vegas Strip (the “Strip”). The
    Venetian includes the first all-suites hotel on the Strip with
    4,027 suites; a gaming facility of approximately
    120,000 gross square feet; an enclosed retail, dining and
    entertainment complex of approximately 440,000 net leasable
    square feet (“The Grand Canal Shops” or the
    “Mall”), which was sold to a third party in 2004; a
    meeting and conference facility of approximately
    1.1 million square feet; and an expo and convention center
    of approximately 1.2 million square feet (“The Sands
    Expo Center”).

The Company also owns and operates The Sands Macao Casino
    (“The Sands Macao”), the first Las Vegas-style casino
    in Macao, China, which opened on May 18, 2004. The Sands
    Macao now offers over 229,000 square feet of gaming
    facilities after its expansion, which was completed in August
    2006, as well as several restaurants, VIP facilities and other
    high-end amenities. In addition, the Company continues to
    progress according to plan on the expansion of the hotel tower,
    which is expected to be completed in September 2007.

United
    States Development Projects

The
    Palazzo

The Company is currently constructing The Palazzo Resort Hotel
    Casino (“The Palazzo”), a second resort similar in
    size to The Venetian, which is situated on a

14-acre

site
    next to The Venetian and The Sands Expo Center. The Palazzo is
    expected to consist of an all-suites, 50-floor luxury hotel
    tower with approximately 3,025 suites, a gaming facility of
    approximately 105,000 square feet and an enclosed shopping,
    dining and entertainment complex of approximately
    450,000 square feet (the “Phase II mall”),
    which the Company has contracted to sell to a third party. The
    Palazzo is expected to open in fall 2007. In connection with the
    sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall, the Company entered into an
    agreement with General Growth Partners (“GGP”), the
    purchaser of The Grand Canal Shops mall, to sell GGP the
    Phase II mall upon completion of construction. The purchase
    price that GGP has agreed to pay for the Phase II mall is
    the greater of (i) $250.0 million and (ii) the
    Phase II mall’s net operating income for months 19
    through 30 of its operations divided by a capitalization rate.
    The capitalization rate is 6.0% on the first $38.0 million
    of net operating income and 8.0% on the net operating income
    above $38.0 million.

The Company is currently constructing a high rise residential
    condominium tower, which will consist of approximately
    270 luxury condominiums and will be situated between The
    Palazzo and The Venetian. The condominium tower is currently
    expected to open in late fall 2008.

Sands
    Bethworks

On December 20, 2006, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board
    announced that a subsidiary, Sands Bethworks Gaming, LLC
    (“Sands Bethworks Gaming”), had been awarded a
    Pennsylvania gaming license. The award of the license is subject
    to appeal and the actual license will be awarded after the
    appeal period ends. Sands Bethworks Gaming will develop a
    gaming, hotel, shopping and dining complex (the “Sands
    Bethworks”) located on the site of the Historic Bethlehem
    Steel Works in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, which is about
    70 miles from midtown Manhattan, New York. In its first
    phase, the

124-acre

development is expected to feature a 300-room hotel,
    200,000 square feet of retail space, 3,000 slot
    machines and a variety of dining options. An additional
    2,000 slot



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

machines will be added in a subsequent phase. The Sands
    Bethworks is also expected be home to the National Museum of
    Industrial History, an arts and cultural center, and the
    broadcast home of the local PBS affiliate. The Company expects
    to open Sands Bethworks in 2008.

Macao
    Development Projects

The Cotai
    Strip

The Company is building The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel Casino
    (“The Venetian Macao”) in Macao, China, an
    approximately 3,000 all-suites hotel, casino and convention
    center complex with a Venetian-style theme similar to that of
    The Venetian in Las Vegas. Under its gaming subconcession in
    Macao, the Company is obligated to develop and open The Venetian
    Macao and a convention center by December 2007. The Company
    currently expects to open The Venetian Macao in summer 2007. If
    the Company fails to meet the December 2007 deadline and that
    deadline is not extended, the Company could lose its right to
    continue to operate The Sands Macao or any other facilities
    developed under its Macao gaming subconcession, and its
    investment to date in The Venetian Macao and its other Cotai
    Strip

TM

developments could be lost.

In February 2007, the Company received the final draft of the
    land concession agreement from the Macao government pursuant to
    which the Company was awarded a concession by lease for
    parcels 1, 2 and 3 on the Cotai Strip, including the sites
    on which it is building The Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons
    hotel. The Company has accepted the conditions of the draft land
    concession and has made an initial premium payment of
    $106.5 million towards the aggregate land premium of
    $323.7 million. Additionally, $24.1 million has been
    paid or will be paid in the form of the cost of the reclamation
    work and other works done on the land and the installation costs
    of an electrical substation with the remaining amount payable
    over time. The land concession will not become effective until
    the date it is published in Macao’s Official Gazette. Once
    the land concession is effective, the Company will be required
    to make additional land premium and annual rent payments
    relating to parcels 1, 2 and 3 in the amounts and at the
    times specified in the land concession. The Company has also
    commenced construction on its other Cotai Strip properties on
    land for which it has not yet been granted land concessions. If
    the Company does not obtain land concessions, it could lose all
    or a substantial part of its investment in these other Cotai
    Strip properties.

In addition to the development of The Venetian Macao, the
    Company is developing multiple other properties on the Cotai
    Strip. The Company submitted development plans to the Macao
    government for six casino-resort developments in addition to The
    Venetian Macao on an area of approximately 200 acres
    located on the Cotai Strip (which are referred to as
    parcels 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8). The developments
    are expected to include hotels, exhibition and conference
    facilities, casinos, showrooms, shopping malls, spas,
    world-class restaurants and entertainment facilities and other
    attractions and amenities, as well as common public areas. The
    Company has commenced construction or pre-construction on all
    seven parcels of the Cotai Strip. The Company plans to own and
    operate all of the casinos in these developments under its Macao
    gaming subconcession. More specifically, the Company intends to
    develop its other Cotai Strip properties as follows:

•

Parcel 2 is intended to be a Four Seasons hotel and casino,
    which will be adjacent to The Venetian Macao and is expected to
    be a boutique hotel with approximately 400 luxury hotel rooms,
    approximately 800,000 square feet of Four Seasons-serviced
    luxury apartments, distinctive dining experiences, a full
    service spa and other amenities, an approximately
    45,000 square foot casino and approximately
    210,000 square feet of upscale retail offerings. The
    Company will own the entire development. The Company has entered
    into an exclusive non-binding letter of intent and is currently
    negotiating definitive agreements under which Four Seasons
    Hotels Inc. will manage the hotel and serviced luxury apartments
    under its Four Seasons brand.

•

Parcel 5 is intended to include a three-hotel complex with
    approximately 2,450 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms, serviced
    luxury apartments, a casino and a retail shopping mall. The
    Company will own the entire development and has entered into a
    management agreement with Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts to
    manage



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

two hotels under its Shangri-La and Traders brands. In
    addition, the Company is negotiating with Starwood
    Hotels & Resorts Worldwide to manage a hotel and
    serviced luxury apartments under its St. Regis brand.

•

Parcel 6 is intended to include a two-hotel complex with
    approximately 4,000 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms, a casino
    and a retail shopping mall physically connected to the mall in
    the Shangri-La/Traders hotel podium. The Company will own the
    entire development and is negotiating with Starwood
    Hotels & Resorts Worldwide to manage the hotels under
    its Sheraton brand.

•

Parcels 7 and 8 are intended to each include a two-hotel complex
    with approximately 3,000 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms on
    each parcel, serviced luxury vacation suites, a casino and
    retail shopping malls that are physically connected. The Company
    will own the entire development and has entered into non-binding
    agreements with Hilton Hotels to manage Hilton and Conrad brand
    hotels and serviced luxury vacation suites on parcel 7 and
    Fairmont Raffles Holdings to manage Fairmont and Raffles brand
    hotel complexes and serviced luxury vacation suites on parcel 8.
    The Company is currently negotiating definitive agreements with
    Hilton Hotels and Fairmont Raffles Holdings.

•

For parcel 3, the Company has signed a non-binding
    memorandum of agreement with an independent developer. The
    Company is currently negotiating the definitive agreement
    pursuant to which it will partner with this developer to build a
    multi-hotel complex, which may include a Cosmopolitan hotel. In
    addition, the Company has signed a non-binding letter of intent
    with Intercontinental Hotels Group to manage hotels under the
    Intercontinental and Holiday Inn International brands, and
    serviced luxury vacation suites under the Intercontinental
    brand, on the site. The Company is currently negotiating
    definitive agreements with Intercontinental Hotels Group. In
    total, the multi-hotel complex is intended to include
    approximately 3,600 hotel rooms, serviced luxury vacation
    suites, a casino and a retail shopping mall.

Hengqin
    Island Development Project

The Company has entered into a non-binding letter of intent with
    the Zhuhai Municipal People’s Government of the
    People’s Republic of China to work with it to create a
    master plan for, and develop, a leisure and convention
    destination resort on Hengqin Island, located approximately one
    mile from the Cotai Strip, but within mainland China. The
    Company is actively preparing design concepts for the
    destination resort. On January 10, 2007, the Zhuhai
    Government established a Project Coordination Committee to act
    as a government liaison empowered to work directly with the
    Company to advance the development of the project. The Company
    has interfaced with this committee and is actively working with
    the committee as the Company continues to advance its plans. The
    project remains subject to a number of conditions, including
    further governmental approvals.

Singapore
    Development Project

In August 2006, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. (“MBS”), entered into a
    development agreement (the “Development Agreement”)
    with the Singapore Tourism Board (“STB”) to build and
    operate an integrated resort called Marina Bay Sands in
    Singapore. The Marina Bay Sands will be a large integrated
    resort that includes three 54-story hotel towers (totaling
    approximately 2,600 suites) linked at their roofs by a Skypark
    with pools, cafes and other recreation facilities, a casino, an
    enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex of
    approximately 750,000 net leasable square feet, a
    convention center and meeting room complex of approximately
    1.2 million square feet, theaters, and a landmark iconic
    structure at the bay-front promenade that contains an
    approximately 150,000 square foot Art/Science museum.

Under the Development Agreement, the Company paid
    $1.2 billion Singapore dollars (“SGD”)
    (approximately US$782.5 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2006) in premium payments for the
    lease of



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

the land on which the resort will be built plus an additional
    SGD$105.6 million (approximately US$68.9 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) for
    various taxes and other fees. Of this combined amount,
    $806.0 million has been capitalized on the balance sheet as
    a leasehold interest in land with $4.8 million amortized as
    of December 31, 2006. The Company will amortize this asset
    over 60 years, which is the length of the lease agreement.
    Of the remaining $45.4 million, $39.7 million was
    recorded as a receivable (which was collected in January 2007
    and further discussed at Note 4 — Accounts
    Receivable, Net) and $5.7 million has been capitalized on
    the balance sheet as construction in progress. In addition to
    the fees above, the Company provided a deposit of
    SGD$192.6 million (approximately US$125.6 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) as a
    security deposit for the construction of the integrated resort,
    which is currently being satisfied by bank guarantees. Also in
    August 2006, MBS entered into a two-year SGD$2.21 billion
    (approximately US$1.44 billion at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2006) bridge facility to finance the
    above payments and to provide for near-term development
    expenditures. See Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt — Singapore Credit Facility.

United
    Kingdom Development Projects

In December 2006, the Company announced that one of its
    affiliates and Cantor Gaming, an affiliate of the global
    financial services company Cantor Fitzgerald, have agreed to
    launch an online casino and poker site initially aimed at
    serving the United Kingdom market. Cantor Gaming will provide an
    online casino and poker destination featuring Las Vegas
    Sands’ brands. The site will offer casino games, including
    blackjack, roulette, baccarat, video poker, slots and online
    poker. The offering will be part of a full

end-to-end

gaming service, including customer age and location
    verification, online payment processing, and customer services.
    The site is expected to be launched during the second quarter of
    2007. The site will be hosted, and the operator will be
    licensed, in compliance with the laws of Alderney, British
    Channel Islands. It will not accept U.S. customers.

Other
    Development Projects

The Company is currently exploring the possibility of operating
    integrated resorts in additional Asian jurisdictions, the United
    States and Europe.

Note 2 —
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles
    of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    the Company and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany
    balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Use of
    Estimates

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America requires the Company to make estimates
    and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of
    contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and judgments
    are based on historical information, information that is
    currently available to the Company and on various other
    assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the
    circumstances. Actual results could vary from those estimates.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term
    investments with original maturities of less than 90 days.
    Such investments are carried at cost which approximates their
    fair value. Cash equivalents are placed with high credit quality
    financial institutions and are primarily in money market funds.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Accounts
    Receivable and Credit Risk

Accounts receivable are principally comprised of casino and
    hotel receivables, which do not bear interest and are recorded
    at cost. The Company extends credit to approved casino customers
    following background checks and investigations of
    creditworthiness. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, 88.7% and
    85.6%, respectively, of the Company’s casino receivables
    were due from customers residing in foreign countries. Business
    or economic conditions, the legal enforceability of gaming
    debts, or other significant events in these countries could
    affect the collectibility of such receivables.

The allowance for doubtful accounts represents the
    Company’s best estimate of the amount of probable credit
    losses in the Company’s existing accounts receivable. The
    Company determines the allowance based on specific customer
    information, historical write-off experience and current
    industry and economic data. Account balances are charged off
    against the allowance when the Company believes it is probable
    the receivable will not be recovered. Management believes that
    there are no concentrations of credit risk for which an
    allowance has not been established. Although management believes
    that the allowance is adequate, it is possible that the
    estimated amount of cash collections with respect to accounts
    receivable could change.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
    determined by the

first-in,

first-out and specific identification methods. Inventories
    consist primarily of food, beverage and retail products and
    operating supplies.

Property
    and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation and
    amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the
    estimated useful lives of the assets, which do not exceed the
    lease term for leasehold improvements, as:

Building and improvements

15 to 40 years

Furniture, fixtures and equipment

3 to 15 years

Leasehold improvements

5 to 10 years

Airplanes

20 years

Maintenance and repairs that neither materially add to the value
    of the property nor appreciably prolong its life are charged to
    expense as incurred. Gains or losses on disposition of property
    and equipment are included in the consolidated statements of
    operations.

The Company evaluates its property and equipment and other
    long-lived assets for impairment in accordance with the
    Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”)
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
    No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
    Long-Lived Assets.” For assets to be disposed of, the
    Company recognizes the asset to be sold at the lower of carrying
    value or fair value less costs of disposal. Fair value for
    assets to be disposed of is estimated based on comparable asset
    sales, solicited offers, or a discounted cash flow model.

For assets to be held and used, fixed assets are reviewed for
    impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. If an
    indicator of impairment exists, the Company first groups its
    assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for
    which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the
    cash flows of other assets and liabilities (the “asset
    group”). Secondly, the Company estimates the undiscounted
    future cash flows that are directly associated with and expected
    to arise from the use of and eventual disposition of such asset
    group. The Company estimates the undiscounted cash flows over
    the remaining useful life of the primary asset within the asset
    group. If the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value,
    no impairment is indicated. If the undiscounted cash flows do
    not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is measured
    based on fair value compared to carrying value, with fair value
    typically based on a discounted cash flow model. If an asset is
    still under development, future cash flows include remaining
    construction costs.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Capitalized
    Interest

Interest costs associated with major construction projects are
    capitalized and included in the cost of the projects. When no
    debt is incurred specifically for construction projects,
    interest is capitalized on amounts expended using the
    weighted-average cost of the Company’s outstanding
    borrowings. Capitalization of interest ceases when the project
    is substantially complete or construction activity is suspended
    for more than a brief period. During the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company capitalized
    interest expense of $94.6 million and $22.7 million,
    respectively.

Deferred
    Financing Costs and Original Issue Discounts

Deferred financing costs and original issue discounts are
    amortized to interest expense based on the terms of the related
    debt instruments using the effective interest method.

Leasehold
    Interest in Land

Leasehold interest in land represents payments made for the use
    of land over an extended period of time. The leasehold interest
    will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the length of
    the lease agreement. Such assets are not qualifying assets for
    purposes of capitalizing interest and as such, are not included
    in the base which is used to determine capitalized interest.

Revenue
    Recognition and Promotional Allowances

Casino revenue is the aggregate of gaming wins and losses. Cash
    discounts and other cash incentives to customers related to
    gaming play are recorded as a reduction of gross casino
    revenues. Hotel revenue recognition criteria are met at the time
    of occupancy. Food and beverage revenue recognition criteria are
    met at the time of service. Deposits for future hotel occupancy
    or food and beverage services contracts are recorded as deferred
    income until revenue recognition criteria are met. Cancellation
    fees for hotel and food and beverage services are recognized
    upon cancellation by the customer. Convention revenues are
    recognized when the related service is rendered or the event is
    held. Minimum rental revenues are included in convention, retail
    and other revenue and are recognized on a straight-line basis
    over the terms of the related lease.

In accordance with industry practice, the retail value of
    accommodations, food and beverage, and other services furnished
    to hotel/casino guests without charge is included in gross
    revenue and then deducted as promotional allowances. The
    estimated retail value of such promotional allowances is
    included in operating revenues as follows (in thousands):

Revenue

Year Ended December 31,




Food and beverage

$

44,768

$

34,760

$

22,042

Rooms

48,005

42,354

36,994

Convention, retail and other

10,546

6,199

2,478

$

103,319

$

83,313

$

61,514



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The estimated departmental cost of providing such promotional
    allowances is included primarily in casino operating expenses as
    follows (in thousands):

Estimated Cost

Year Ended December 31,




Food and beverage

$

29,302

$

23,153

$

12,715

Rooms

11,505

10,862

9,292

Convention, retail and other

5,040

5,973

2,413

$

45,847

$

39,988

$

24,420

Frequent
    Players Program

The Company has established promotional clubs to encourage
    repeat business from frequent and active slot machine customers
    and table games patrons. Members earn points based on gaming
    activity and such points can be redeemed for cash. The Company
    accrues for club points as a reduction to gaming revenue based
    upon the estimates for expected redemptions.

Pre-Opening
    and Development Expenses

The Company accounts for costs incurred in the development and
    pre-opening phases of new ventures in accordance with Statement
    of Position

98-5,

“Reporting on the Costs of

Start-Up

Activities.” Pre-opening expense represents personnel and
    other costs incurred prior to the opening of new ventures and
    are expensed as incurred. Development expense includes the costs
    associated with the Company’s evaluation and pursuit of new
    business opportunities, which are also expensed as incurred.

Advertising
    Costs

Costs for advertising are expensed as incurred. Advertising
    costs included in general and administrative expense were
    $6.0 million, $4.6 million and $3.3 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

Currency
    Translation

The Company accounts for currency translation in accordance with
    SFAS No. 52, “Foreign Currency Translation.”
    Balance sheet accounts are translated at the exchange rate in
    effect at each balance sheet date and income statement accounts
    are translated at the average exchange rates during the year.
    Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged
    or credited to other comprehensive income.

Comprehensive
    Income

Comprehensive income includes net income and all other
    non-stockholder changes in equity, or other comprehensive
    income. Elements of the Company’s comprehensive income are
    reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of
    stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and the
    cumulative balance of these elements consisted solely of foreign
    currency translation adjustments.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Earnings
    Per Share

The weighted average number of common and common equivalent
    shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per
    share consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,




Weighted-average common shares
    outstanding (used in the calculation of basic earnings per share)

354,277,941

354,161,165

326,486,740

Potential dilution from stock
    options and restricted stock

986,503

365,439

362,171

Weighted-average common and common
    equivalent shares (used in the calculations of diluted earnings
    per share)

355,264,444

354,526,604

326,848,911

For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, outstanding
    options to purchase 882,900 and 42,820 of common stock,
    respectively, were not included in the calculation of diluted
    earnings per share because their effect was antidilutive. There
    were no antidilutive options for the year ended
    December 31, 2004.

Stock-Based
    Employee Compensation

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the
    provisions of SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based
    Payment”, which establishes accounting for equity
    instruments exchanged for employee services. Under the
    provisions of SFAS No. 123R, stock-based compensation
    cost is measured at the grant date, based on the calculated fair
    value of the award, and is recognized over the employee’s
    requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the
    equity grant). Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company
    accounted for stock-based compensation to employees in
    accordance with Accounting Principles Board (“APB”)
    Opinion No. 25 “Accounting for Stock Issued to
    Employees”, and related interpretations. The Company also
    followed the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123,
    “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” as amended
    by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation — Transition and Disclosure.” The
    Company elected to adopt the modified prospective application
    transition method as provided by SFAS No. 123R and,
    accordingly, financial statement amounts for the prior periods
    presented in this

Form 10-K

have not been restated to reflect the fair value method of
    recording stock-based compensation. The Company’s
    stock-based employee compensation plan is more fully discussed
    in Note 12 — Stock-Based Employee Compensation.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company had previously adopted the provisions of
    SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148,
    for disclosure purposes only. Had the Company accounted for the
    plan under the fair value method allowed by
    SFAS No. 123, the Company’s net income and
    earnings per share would have been adjusted to the following pro
    forma amounts (dollars in thousands, except per share data):

Year Ended December 31,



Net income, as reported

$

283,686

$

495,183

Add: Stock-based compensation
    expense included in reported net income, net of tax


49,230

Deduct: Total stock-based employee
    compensation expense determined under the minimum value method

—

(57,310

)

Deduct: Total stock-based employee
    compensation expense determined under Black-Scholes
    option-pricing model, net of tax

(3,791

)

(222

)

Pro forma net income

$

279,991

$

486,881

Basic earnings per share, as
    reported

$

0.80

$

1.52

Basic earnings per share, pro forma

$

0.79

$

1.49

Diluted earnings per share, as
    reported

$

0.80

$

1.52

Diluted earnings per share, pro
    forma

$

0.79

$

1.49

Income
    Taxes

Prior to its merger into a wholly-owned subsidiary of LVSC (the
    “Merger”) in December 2004 and its conversion into a
    LLC in 2005, LVSLLC had elected to be taxed as an
    S corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries were either
    limited liability companies or S corporations, each of
    which was a pass-through entity for federal income tax purposes.
    Nevada does not levy a corporate income tax and the Company has
    a temporary income tax exemption in Macao through 2008.
    Accordingly, no provision for federal, state, or foreign income
    taxes is included in the consolidated statements of operations
    for the period from January 1, 2004 through the Merger in
    December 2004. LVSLLC’s debt instruments provided for
    dividends to be paid to stockholders to pay income taxes
    associated with its taxable income attributable to each
    stockholder during the period LVSLLC was taxed as an
    S corporation. During 2004, LVSLLC declared and accrued
    $129.0 million of tax dividends.

As a result of the Merger and the completion of LVSC’s
    initial public offering in December 2004, the Company is now
    subject to federal and certain state income taxes. For
    information purposes, the consolidated statements of operations
    also include unaudited pro forma amounts for the income taxes
    that would have been recorded if the Company had historically
    been a C corporation.

The Company adopted SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for
    Income Taxes,” effective with the date of the Merger. Under
    SFAS No. 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are
    recognized based on differences between financial statement and
    tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates.
    SFAS No. 109 requires the recognition of deferred tax
    assets, net of any applicable valuation allowances, related to
    net operating loss carryforwards, tax credits and other
    temporary deductible differences. The standard requires
    recognition of a future tax benefit to the extent that
    realization of such benefit is more likely than not; otherwise,
    a valuation allowance is applied.

The Company’s income tax returns are subject to examination
    by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax
    authorities. While positions taken in tax returns are sometimes
    subject to uncertainty in the tax laws, the Company does not
    take such positions unless it has “substantial
    authority” to do so under the Internal Revenue Code and
    applicable regulations. The Company may take positions on its
    tax returns based on substantial authority that are not
    ultimately accepted by the IRS. There are currently no income
    tax returns being examined by the IRS.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company assesses potential unfavorable outcomes based on the
    criteria of SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for
    Contingencies.” The Company establishes a tax reserve if an
    unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the
    unfavorable outcome can be reasonably estimated. The Company
    assesses the potential outcomes of tax uncertainties on a
    quarterly basis. In determining whether the probable criterion
    of SFAS No. 5 is met, the Company presumes that the
    taxing authority will focus on the exposure and it assesses the
    probable outcome of a particular issue based upon the relevant
    legal and technical merits. The Company also applies judgment
    regarding the potential actions by the tax authorities and
    resolution through the settlement process.

The Company maintains required tax reserves until such time as
    the underlying issue is resolved. When actual results differ
    from reserve estimates, the Company will adjust the income tax
    provision and its tax reserves in the period resolved. For tax
    years that are examined by taxing authorities, the Company will
    adjust tax reserves in the year the tax examinations are
    settled. For tax years that are not examined by taxing
    authorities, the Company will adjust tax reserves in the year
    that the statute of limitations expires. The Company’s
    estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is
    highly judgmental, and it believes it has adequately provided
    for any reasonable and foreseeable outcomes related to uncertain
    tax matters.

Tax
    Indemnification

In connection with the conversion of LVSLLC from a subchapter S
    corporation to a taxable C corporation for income tax purposes,
    LVSLLC entered into an indemnification agreement pursuant to
    which it agreed to:

•

indemnify those of the Company’s stockholders who were
    stockholders of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. prior to the 2004 initial
    public offering against certain tax liabilities incurred by
    these stockholders as a result of adjustments (pursuant to a
    determination by, or a settlement with, a taxing authority or
    court, or pursuant to the filing of an amended tax return) to
    the taxable income of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. with respect to
    taxable periods during which Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was a
    subchapter S corporation for income tax purposes; and

•

indemnify the Principal Stockholder against certain tax
    liabilities incurred by him as a result of adjustments (pursuant
    to a determination by, or a settlement with, a taxing authority
    or court, or pursuant to the filing of an amended tax return) to
    the taxable income of Interface Holdings with respect to taxable
    periods during which Interface Holdings was a subchapter S
    corporation for income tax purposes.

Accounting
    for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

Generally accepted accounting principles require that an entity
    recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the
    statement of financial position and measure those instruments at
    fair value. If specific conditions are met, a derivative may be
    specifically designated as a hedge of specific financial
    exposures. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a
    derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and, if
    used in hedging activities, it depends on its effectiveness as a
    hedge.

The Company has a policy aimed at managing interest rate risk
    associated with its current and anticipated future borrowings.
    This policy enables the Company to use any combination of
    interest rate swaps, futures, options, caps and similar
    instruments. To the extent the Company employs such financial
    instruments pursuant to this policy, and the instruments qualify
    for hedge accounting, they are accounted for as hedging
    instruments. In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the
    underlying hedged item must expose the Company to risks
    associated with market fluctuations and the financial instrument
    used must be designated as a hedge and must reduce the
    Company’s exposure to market fluctuation throughout the
    hedge period. If these criteria are not met, a change in the
    market value of the financial instrument is recognized as a gain
    or loss in results of operations in the period of change.
    Otherwise, gains and losses are recognized in comprehensive
    income or loss except to the extent that the financial
    instrument is disposed of prior to maturity. Net interest paid
    or received pursuant to the financial instrument is included as
    interest expense in the period.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

In June 2006, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on
    Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue

No. 06-03,

“How Sales Collected from Customers and Remitted to
    Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income
    Statement (that is, Gross Versus Net Presentation)”. The
    EITF reached a consensus that the presentation of taxes on
    either a gross or net basis is an accounting policy decision
    that requires disclosure. EITF

Issue No. 06-03

is effective for the first interim or annual reporting period
    beginning after December 15, 2006. Taxes collected from the
    Company’s customers are and have been recorded on a net
    basis. The Company has no intention of modifying this accounting
    policy. As such, the adoption of EITF

Issue No. 06-03

will not have an effect on the Company’s results from
    operations or financial position.

In July 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation (“FIN”)
    No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes,” which provides guidance for the accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial
    statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109.
    FIN No. 48 provides guidance on the financial
    statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or
    expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN No. 48 also
    provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and
    penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosures, and
    transition. FIN No. 48 will require entities to assess
    the likelihood that uncertain tax positions will be accepted by
    the applicable taxing authority and then measure the amount of
    benefit to be recognized for these purposes which are considered
    greater than 50% likely to be sustained. FIN No. 48 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2006. The Company will adopt FIN No. 48 as of
    January 1, 2007, as required. The Company is currently
    evaluating the impact of adopting this standard, but believes
    that there will be a reduction to opening retained earnings in
    an amount that will not exceed $12.0 million.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements,” which defines fair value,
    establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands
    disclosures about fair value measurements.
    SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting
    pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurement.
    SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value
    measurements and the Company does not expect the application of
    this standard to change its current practices. The provisions of
    SFAS No. 157 are effective for financial statements
    issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007
    and interim periods within those fiscal years.

Reclassifications

The consolidated financial statements for prior years reflect
    certain reclassifications to conform to the current year
    presentation, which have no effect on amounts previously
    reported in the Company’s balance sheets, statements of
    operations or statements of cash flows. Casino discounts of
    $19.5 million previously included in the allowance for
    doubtful accounts and discounts is now offset against gross
    casino accounts receivable.

Note 3 —
    Restricted Cash

As required by the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility
    (See Note 8 — Long-Term Debt — Senior
    Secured Credit Facility), certain proceeds pursuant to draws
    under this facility have been deposited into restricted
    accounts, invested in cash and pledged to a disbursement agent
    for the Senior Secured Credit Facility lenders. This restricted
    cash amount will be used as required for The Palazzo project
    costs under disbursement terms specified in this facility. The
    disbursement account is subject to a security interest in favor
    of the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facility. As of
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, The Palazzo disbursement
    account balance was $374.8 million and $571.1 million,
    respectively.

As required by the Company’s Macao credit facility entered
    into in May 2006 (See Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt — Macao Credit Facility), certain proceeds
    pursuant to draws under this facility have been deposited into
    restricted accounts, invested in cash and pledged to a
    disbursement agent for the Macao credit facility lenders. This
    restricted cash amount will be used as required for The Sands
    Macao, The Venetian Macao and other Cotai Strip project costs
    under disbursement terms specified in this facility. The
    disbursement account is subject to a security



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

interest in favor of the lenders under the Macao credit
    facility. As of December 31, 2006, the restricted cash
    balance was $465.4 million.

Restricted cash also includes $19.3 million and
    $21.7 million consisting primarily of advance customer
    deposits for convention facility rentals that have been paid
    pursuant to contractual terms for the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and are
    classified as restricted in accordance with The Sands Expo
    Center mortgage loan (See Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt — The Sands Expo Center Mortgage Loan). In
    addition, restricted cash includes a restricted cash deposit of
    $50.0 million related to the gaming license in Pennsylvania
    as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, $19.6 million
    related to the Marina Bay Sands project in Singapore as of
    December 31, 2006 and $24.8 million related to The
    Palazzo and the Phase II mall as of December 31, 2006.

Note 4 —
    Accounts Receivable, Net

Accounts receivable consists of the following (in thousands):

At December 31,



Casino

$

119,514

$

79,815

Hotel

36,160

29,943

Other

53,485

4,500

209,159

114,258

Less: allowance for doubtful
    accounts

(35,476

)

(29,480

)

$

173,683

$

84,778

At December 31, 2006, other receivables include a
    $39.7 million receivable relating to goods and services
    taxes paid in connection with obtaining the leasehold interest
    in land, which the Company has recovered from the Singapore
    government in January 2007.

Note 5 —
    Property and Equipment, Net

Property and equipment consists of the following (in thousands):

At December 31,



Land and land improvements

$

207,144

$

202,285

Building and improvements

1,622,783

1,454,462

Equipment, furniture, fixtures and
    leasehold improvements

528,882

351,219

Construction in progress

2,694,180

957,752

5,052,989

2,965,718

Less: accumulated depreciation and
    amortization

(470,664

)

(365,250

)

$

4,582,325

$

2,600,468



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Construction in progress consists of the following (in
    thousands):

At December 31,



The Sands Macao

$

17,443

$

22,153

The Venetian Macao

1,544,622

448,830

Other Macao Development Projects

130,355


The Palazzo and Phase II Mall

916,302

454,227

Other

85,458

32,511

$

2,694,180

$

957,752

Note 6 —
    Leasehold Interest in Land, Net

In August 2006, MBS entered into the Development Agreement with
    STB to build and operate an integrated resort called Marina Bay
    Sands in Singapore. Under the Development Agreement, the Company
    paid SGD$1.2 billion (approximately US$782.5 million
    at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) in
    premium payments for the lease of the land on which the resort
    will be built, plus an additional SGD$105.6 million
    (approximately US$68.9 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2006) for various taxes and other
    fees. Of this combined amount, $806.0 million has been
    capitalized on the balance sheet as leasehold interest in land
    with $4.8 million amortized as of December 31, 2006.
    The Company will amortize this asset on a straight-line basis
    over 60 years, which is the length of the lease agreement
    (approximately US$13.4 million annually at exchange rates
    in effect on December 31, 2006).

Note 7 —
    Other Accrued Liabilities

Other accrued liabilities consist of the following (in
    thousands):

At December 31,



Customer deposits

$

78,313

$

72,274

Payroll and related

65,350

43,301

Taxes and licenses

78,922

49,407

Outstanding gaming chips and tokens

51,752

46,033

Other accruals

44,564

35,375

$

318,901

$

246,390



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 8 —
    Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):

At December 31,



Corporate and
    U.S. Related:

Senior Secured Credit
    Facility — Term B

$

970,000

$

970,000

Senior Secured Credit
    Facility — Term B — delayed

200,000

200,000

Senior Secured Credit
    Facility — Revolving Facility

260,128

31,000

6.375% Senior Notes (net of
    original issue discount of $1,847 and $2,075, respectively)

248,153

247,925

The Sands Expo Center Mortgage Loan

90,868

95,601

Phase II Mall Construction
    Loan

114,500

28,500

FF&E Credit
    Facility — Term Funded

7,395

10,200

FF&E Credit
    Facility — Term Delayed Draw

37,582

—

Macao Related:

Macao Credit Facility —
    Term B

1,200,000

—

Macao Credit Facility —
    Local Term

100,000

—

Venetian Intermediate Credit
    Facility

—

50,000

Singapore Related:

Singapore Credit
    Facility — Term Loan

393,510

—

Singapore Credit
    Facility — Floating Rate Notes

520,502

—

4,142,638

1,633,226

Less: current maturities

(6,486

)

(7,325

)

Total long-term debt

$

4,136,152

$

1,625,901

Senior
    Secured Credit Facility

On February 22, 2005, LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort,
    LLC entered into an amended and restated senior secured credit
    facility with a syndicate of lenders in an aggregate amount of
    $1.62 billion (the “Senior Secured Credit
    Facility”). The Senior Secured Credit Facility amended and
    restated an existing senior secured credit facility and provides
    for a $970.0 million senior secured funded term loan
    facility (the “Term B Facility”), a
    $200.0 million senior secured delayed draw facility (the
    “Term B Delayed Draw Facility”), which was drawn in
    full in August 2005; and a $450.0 million senior secured
    revolving facility (the “Revolving Facility”) of which
    $260.1 million was drawn as of December 31, 2006.

The Term B Facility and Term B Delayed Draw Facility mature on
    June 15, 2011 and are subject to quarterly amortization
    payments in the amount of $2.9 million from the first full
    fiscal quarter following substantial completion of The Palazzo
    until June 30, 2010, followed by approximately four equal
    quarterly amortization payments of approximately
    $284.5 million each until the maturity date. The Revolving
    Facility matures in February 2010 and has no interim
    amortization. As a result of the $260.1 million draw, the
    amount available for working capital loans under the Revolving
    Facility is $189.9 million as of December 31, 2006.

The indebtedness under the Senior Secured Credit Facility is
    guaranteed by certain of the Company’s subsidiaries (the
    “Guarantors”). The obligations under the Senior
    Secured Credit Facility and the guarantees of the Guarantors are
    secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially
    all of LVSLLC’s and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC’s (the owner of The Venetian), and the
    Guarantors’ assets, other than



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

capital stock. Venetian Macau Limited, Venetian Cotai Limited,
    Venetian Intermediate and the Company’s other Macao
    subsidiaries are not guarantors or restricted subsidiaries under
    the Senior Secured Credit Facility. Borrowings under the Senior
    Secured Credit Facility bear interest, at the Company’s
    option, at either an adjusted Eurodollar rate or at an
    alternative base rate, plus a spread of 1.75% or 0.75%,
    respectively, which spreads will decrease by 0.25% if the loans
    achieve a rating of Ba2 or higher by Moody’s and BB or
    higher by Standard & Poor’s, subject to certain
    additional conditions. The Company will also pay a standby fee
    of 0.5% per annum on the undrawn amounts under the
    Revolving Facility. The Senior Secured Credit Facility contains
    affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary to such
    financings. These covenants include restrictions on, among other
    things, the ability of the borrowers to incur additional debt,
    dispose of assets, and enter into sale and leaseback
    transactions. The financial covenants include a minimum
    consolidated net worth test, a minimum consolidated interest
    coverage ratio, a maximum consolidated capital expenditure test
    and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio. In addition, there
    are provisions that limit or prohibit certain payments of
    dividends or other distributions to LVSC. At December 31,
    2006, the net assets of LVSLLC were $1.92 billion, a
    substantial portion of which were restricted under the terms of
    the Senior Secured Credit Facility.

The weighted average interest rate for the Senior Secured Credit
    Facility was 7.0% and 5.3% during the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The Company is required to hedge 50% of the outstanding
    indebtedness, which is achieved through interest rate cap
    agreements to limit the impact of increases in interest rates on
    its floating rate debt derived from the Senior Secured Credit
    Facility. If the fixed portion of the Company’s outstanding
    indebtedness falls below 50%, then the Company is obligated to
    fix a portion of its floating rate debt to meet the 50%
    requirement. To meet this requirement the Company entered into
    an interest rate cap agreement during 2005 with a
    $500.0 million notional amount that expires on
    March 30, 2008 and a second interest rate cap agreement
    during 2006 with a $50.0 million notional amount that also
    expires on March 30, 2008. The provisions of the interest
    rate cap agreements entitle the Company to receive from the
    counterparties the amounts, if any, by which the selected market
    interest rates exceed the strike rates of 5.75% and 6.5% as
    stated in the respective agreements. There was no net effect on
    interest expense as a result of the interest rate cap agreements
    for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.

Senior
    Notes

On February 10, 2005, LVSC sold in a private placement
    transaction $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of
    its 6.375% Senior Notes due 2015 (the “Senior
    Notes”) with an original issue discount of
    $2.3 million. Net proceeds after offering costs and
    original issue discount were $244.8 million. The Senior
    Notes will mature on February 15, 2015. LVSC has the option
    to redeem all or a portion of the Senior Notes at any time prior
    to February 15, 2010 at a “make-whole” redemption
    price. Thereafter, LVSC has the option to redeem all or a
    portion of the Senior Notes at any time at fixed prices that
    decline ratably over time. In addition, before February 15,
    2008, LVSC may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal
    amount of the Senior Notes with the proceeds of certain equity
    offerings at a redemption price equal to 106.375% of the
    principal amount of the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes are
    unsecured senior obligations of LVSC and are jointly and
    severally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of
    LVSC’s existing domestic subsidiaries (including LVSLLC and
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC). The indenture governing the Senior
    Notes contains covenants that, subject to certain exceptions and
    conditions, limit the ability of LVSC and the subsidiary
    guarantors to enter into sale and leaseback transactions in
    respect of their principal properties, create liens on their
    principal properties and consolidate, merge or sell all or
    substantially all their assets. The net proceeds of the Senior
    Notes offering were utilized to complete the retirement of the
    11% Mortgage Notes as further described below. In June 2005, the
    Senior Notes were exchanged for substantially similar Senior
    Notes, which had been registered under the federal securities
    laws.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The
    Sands Expo Center Mortgage Loan

On July 30, 2004, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company,
    Interface Group Holding Company, Inc. (“Interface”),
    entered into a $100.0 million mortgage loan (“The
    Sands Expo Center Mortgage Loan”). Interface’s
    obligations under the loan are secured by a first priority
    mortgage on The Sands Expo Center and by certain other related
    collateral. On July 31, 2006, Interface exercised its first
    one-year renewal option, extending the maturity date to
    August 1, 2007, unless it exercises its remaining one-year
    and subsequent six-month renewal options. If Interface exercises
    all of the renewal options then the loan must be repaid no later
    than January 30, 2009. The loan amortizes pursuant to a

20-year

mortgage schedule, based on a 9.25% interest rate amortization.
    If cash flow of Interface (as defined by the loan agreement) is
    available after the payment of interest and mandatory
    amortization, tax and insurance reserve amounts, operating
    expenses, capital expenditures and a reserve for advanced
    customer deposits, additional principal payments must be made
    equal to the difference between (i) the principal payments
    necessary to amortize the loan pursuant to a

15-year

schedule, based on a 7.0% interest rate and (ii) the
    amortization payment required by the aforementioned 9.25%
    amortization schedule. The loan bears interest at an interest
    rate equal to LIBOR plus 3.75%. The loan may be prepaid in whole
    or in part at par. The weighted average interest rate on The
    Sands Expo Center Mortgage Loan was 8.8% and 6.9% during the
    years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At
    December 31, 2006, the Company has classified this debt as
    long-term because it has both the ability and intent to exercise
    the second one-year renewal option.

Phase II
    Mall Construction Loan

On September 30, 2004, two wholly-owned subsidiaries of the
    Company, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC and Phase II Mall
    Subsidiary, LLC (the “Phase II Mall Subsidiary”),
    entered into a construction loan agreement with a group of
    lenders. The agreement provides for delayed draw loans in an
    aggregate principal amount of $250.0 million. The proceeds
    are being used to fund the design, development and construction
    of the Phase II mall. The loan is secured by a
    first-priority security interest in substantially all of the
    borrowers’ assets, other than capital stock. The loan bears
    interest, at the borrowers’ option, at either an adjusted
    Eurodollar rate plus 1.75% or an alternative base rate plus
    0.75%. Interest is payable on the base rate loans on a quarterly
    basis and is payable on Eurodollar rate loans at the end of the
    applicable interest period. The loan is due in full upon the
    earlier of March 31, 2008 or the sale of the Phase II
    mall and there is no interim amortization. As of
    December 31, 2006, there was $114.5 million
    outstanding under this facility. The Phase II Mall
    Subsidiary will also pay a standby fee of 0.375% per annum
    on the undrawn amounts under the construction loan. The weighted
    average interest rate on the Phase II mall construction
    loan was 7.1% and 5.5% for the years ended December 31,
    2006 and 2005, respectively.

To meet the requirements of the Phase II mall construction
    loan, the Company entered into an interest rate cap agreement
    during December 2004 (the “Phase II Mall Cap
    Agreement”) with a maximum $125.0 million notional
    amount for a term equal to the term of the Phase II mall
    construction loan. The provisions of the Phase II Mall Cap
    Agreement entitle the Company to receive from the counterparties
    the amounts, if any, by which the selected market interest rates
    exceed the strike rate of 6.0% as stated in such agreement.
    There was no net effect on interest expense as a result of the
    Phase II Mall Cap Agreement for the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005. The notional amount of the
    Phase II Mall Cap Agreement (which expires on June 1,
    2007) at December 31, 2006 was $107.0 million.

FF&E
    Financing

In September 2003, the Company and a lender entered into a
    credit facility (the “FF&E Term Funded Credit
    Facility”) to provide $15.0 million of financing for
    an expansion of The Venetian. The proceeds from the FF&E
    Term Funded Credit Facility were used to finance certain
    furniture, fixtures and equipment (the “Term Funded
    Specified FF&E”) for this expansion and the facility
    was secured by the Term Funded Specified FF&E. The FF&E
    Term Funded Credit Facility provides for a

60-month

basic term loan. Interest on this term loan is three-month LIBOR
    plus 3.0% and is payable quarterly. In December 2006, this
    facility was refinanced as part of the new credit



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

facility discussed below. In connection with the refinancing,
    the terms of the remaining amounts outstanding under the
    FF&E Term Funded Credit Facility were amended to change the
    interest rate to three-month LIBOR plus 2.0% and to capitalize
    the interest due for the fourth quarter of 2006 to the principal
    balance of this term loan. The FF&E Term Funded Credit
    Facility is subject to nineteen quarterly amortization payments
    of $600,000 beginning January 1, 2004, and one final
    payment of approximately $3.7 million on October 1,
    2008. The weighted average interest rate for the FF&E Term
    Funded Credit Facility was 8.0% and 6.3% during the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

In December 2006, the Company and a group of lenders, with
    General Electric Capital Corporation, as administrative agent to
    the lenders, entered into an additional $135.0 million of
    furniture, fixture and equipment financing (the “FF&E
    Term Delayed Draw Credit Facility”). The proceeds from the
    FF&E Term Delayed Draw Credit Facility were and will be used
    to finance certain equipment, fixtures, furniture and other
    goods (the “Term Delayed Draw Specified FF&E”) at
    The Palazzo and The Venetian and the facility is secured by the
    Term Delayed Draw Specified FF&E. The FF&E Term Delayed
    Draw Credit Facility provides for a

54-month

delayed draw loan. Interest on this term loan is either
    three-month LIBOR plus 2.0% or base rate plus 1.0% and is
    payable quarterly. The FF&E Term Delayed Draw Credit
    Facility is subject to ten quarterly principal payments
    beginning on April 1, 2008 in an amount equal to 5% of the
    aggregate principal amount as of April 1, 2008, with the
    remaining amount due in four equal installments on
    October 1, 2010, January 1, 2011, April 1, 2011
    and June 15, 2011. The Company will also pay a standby fee
    of 0.75% per annum on the undrawn amounts under the
    FF&E Term Delayed Draw Credit Facility. The weighted average
    interest rate for the FF&E Term Delayed Draw Credit Facility
    was 7.5% during the year ended December 31, 2006.

Macao
    Credit Facility

On May 25, 2006, two subsidiaries of the Company, VML US
    Finance, LLC (the “Borrower”) and Venetian Macau
    Limited, as guarantor, entered into a credit agreement (the
    “Macao Credit Facility”). The Macao Credit Facility
    consists of a $1.2 billion funded term B loan (the
    “Macao Term B Facility”), a $700.0 million
    delayed draw term B loan (the “Macao Term B Delayed Draw
    Facility”), a $100.0 million funded local currency
    term loan (the “Macao Local Term Facility”) and a
    $500.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Macao
    Revolving Facility”). As of December 31, 2006, no
    amounts are outstanding under the Macao Revolving Facility and
    no amounts have been drawn under the Macao Term B Delayed Draw
    Facility. Under the Macao Credit Facility, the Company is
    required to secure the land concession in order to fully draw
    against the facility. In February 2007, the Company has asked
    its lenders to amend the Macao Credit Facility to remove this
    requirement, among others.

In February 2007, the Company received the final draft of the
    land concession agreement from the Macao government pursuant to
    which the Company was awarded a concession by lease for
    parcels 1, 2 and 3 on the Cotai Strip, including the sites
    on which it is building The Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons
    hotel. The Company has accepted the conditions of the draft land
    concession and has made an initial premium payment of
    $106.5 million towards the aggregate land premium of
    $323.7 million. Additionally, $24.1 million has been
    paid or will be paid in the form of the cost of the reclamation
    work and other works done on the land and the installation costs
    of an electrical substation with the remaining amount payable
    over time. The land concession will not become effective until
    the date it is published in Macao’s Official Gazette. Once
    the land concession is effective, the Company will be required
    to make additional land premium and annual rent payments
    relating to parcels 1, 2 and 3 in the amounts and at the
    times specified in the land concession.

The indebtedness under the Macao Credit Facility is guaranteed
    by Venetian Macau Limited, Venetian Cotai Limited and certain of
    the Company’s other foreign subsidiaries (the “Macao
    Guarantors”). The obligations under the Macao Credit
    Facility and the guarantees of the Macao Guarantors are secured
    by a first-priority security interest in substantially all of
    the Borrower’s and the Macao Guarantors’ assets, other
    than (1) capital stock of the Borrower and the Macao
    Guarantors, (2) assets that will secure permitted
    furniture, fixtures and equipment financings, (3) Venetian
    Macau Limited’s gaming subconcession contract and
    (4) certain other assets.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Borrowings under the Macao Credit Facility bear interest, at the
    Company’s option, at either an adjusted Eurodollar rate
    (or, in the case of the Macao Local Term Facility, adjusted
    HIBOR) or at an alternative base rate, plus a spread of 2.75% or
    1.75%, respectively (6.7% for the Macao Local Term Facility and
    8.1% for the Macao Term B Facility at December 31, 2006).
    These spreads will be decreased by 0.25% from the beginning of
    the first interest period following the substantial completion
    of The Venetian Macao. The Borrower will also pay standby fees
    of 0.5% and 1.375% per annum on the undrawn amounts under
    the Macao Revolving Facility and the Macao Term B Delayed Draw
    Facility, respectively.

The weighted average interest rates for the Macao Local Term
    Facility and the Macao Term B Facility were 6.9% and 8.1%,
    respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006.

To meet the requirements of the Macao Credit Facility, the
    Company entered into an interest rate cap agreement during
    September 2006 (the “Macao Cap Agreement”) with a
    $1.0 billion notional amount which expires on
    September 21, 2009. The provisions of the Macao Cap
    Agreement entitle the Company to receive from the counterparties
    the amounts, if any, by which the selected market interest rates
    exceed the strike rate of 6.75% as stated in such agreement.
    There was no net effect on interest expense as a result of the
    Macao Cap Agreement for the year ended December 31, 2006.

The Macao Revolving Facility and the Macao Local Term Facility
    have a five year maturity. The Macao Term B Delayed Draw
    Facility and the Macao Term B Facility mature in six and seven
    years, respectively. The Macao Term B Delayed Draw Facility and
    the Macao Term B Facility are subject to nominal amortization
    for the first five and six years, respectively, in the first
    quarter following substantial completion of The Venetian Macao,
    with the remainder of the loans payable in four equal
    installments in the last year immediately preceding their
    respective maturity dates. Following the substantial completion
    of The Venetian Macao, the Macao Local Term Facility is subject
    to quarterly amortization in an amount of approximately
    $6.3 million per quarter, with the remainder of the loan
    payable in four equal installments in the last year immediately
    preceding the maturity date.

The Macao Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative
    covenants customary for such financings, including, but not
    limited to, limitations on incurring additional liens, incurring
    additional indebtedness, making certain investments, paying
    dividends and other restricted payments, and acquiring and
    selling assets. The Macao Credit Facility also requires the
    Borrower and the Macao Guarantors to comply with financial
    covenants, including, but not limited to, minimum EBITDA for a
    period of time and, thereafter, ratios of EBITDA to interest
    expense and total indebtedness to EBITDA, as well as maximum
    capital expenditures. The Macao Credit Facility also contains
    events of default customary for such financings.

Singapore
    Credit Facility

On August 18, 2006, MBS entered into agreements (together,
    the “Singapore Credit Facility”) providing for a
    SGD$1.1 billion (approximately US$717.3 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2006) floating rate notes facility (the “Singapore
    Floating Rate Notes”) and a SGD$1.1 billion
    (approximately US$717.3 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2006) term loan facility (the
    “Singapore Term Loan”). The Singapore Floating Rate
    Notes consist of a funded SGD$788.6 million (approximately
    US$514.2 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2006) facility and a
    SGD$315.4 million (approximately US$205.7 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) delayed
    draw facility. The Singapore Term Loan consists of a funded
    SGD$596.0 million (approximately US$388.7 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2006) facility, a SGD$315.4 million (approximately
    US$205.7 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2006) delayed draw facility, and a
    SGD$192.6 million (approximately US$125.6 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2006) facility to provide bank guarantees for a security
    deposit required to be delivered to the STB under the
    Development Agreement. As of December 31, 2006,
    SGD$798.2 million (approximately US$520.5 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) has
    been drawn on the Singapore Floating Rate Notes,
    SGD$603.5 million (approximately US$393.5 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) has
    been drawn on the Singapore Term Loan, and
    SGD$192.6 million (approximately US$125.6 million at
    exchange



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

rates in effect on December 31, 2006) under the
    Singapore Term Loan has been committed to provide a guarantee
    for a security deposit required to be delivered to the STB under
    the Development Agreement.

The indebtedness under the Singapore Floating Rate Notes is
    guaranteed by LVSC on an unsecured basis and the indebtedness
    under the Singapore Term Loan is secured by a first-priority
    security interest in substantially all of MBS’ assets,
    other than capital stock and certain other assets.

Borrowings under both the Singapore Floating Rate Notes and the
    Singapore Term Loan bear interest at the Singapore SWAP Offer
    Rate plus a spread of 1.35% per annum during the first twelve
    months that amounts are outstanding under such facilities and a
    spread of 1.60% per annum during the second twelve months
    that amounts are outstanding (5.0% at December 31, 2006).
    MBS will also pay a standby fee of 0.375% per annum on the
    undrawn amounts under the Singapore Credit Facility. The
    Singapore Credit Facility has a two year maturity and the
    aggregate amount outstanding matures in full on August 22,
    2008. MBS is permitted, at its option, to redeem or prepay all
    or a portion of the outstanding Singapore Credit Facility, at
    par, without premium or penalty, under certain circumstances.
    The weighted average interest rate for the Singapore Floating
    Rate Notes and the Singapore Term Loan was 5.0% for the year
    ended December 31, 2006.

The Singapore Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative
    covenants customary for such financings, including, but not
    limited to, limitations on liens, indebtedness, investments,
    acquisitions and asset sales, restricted payments, affiliate
    transactions and use of proceeds from the facility, as well as
    requirements to comply with applicable law and maintain adequate
    insurance.

Mortgage
    Notes

On June 4, 2002, LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
    issued $850.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 11%
    mortgage notes due 2010 (the “Mortgage Notes”). The
    Mortgage Notes bore interest at 11%, payable each
    June 15th and December 15th. The Mortgage Notes
    were redeemable at the option of LVSLLC and Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC at prices ranging from 100% to 105.5% commencing on
    or after June 15, 2006, as set forth in the Mortgage Notes
    and the indenture pursuant to which the Mortgage Notes were
    issued (the “Indenture”). Prior to June 15, 2006,
    LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC could redeem the Mortgage
    Notes at their principal amount plus an applicable make-whole
    premium. On or prior to June 15, 2005, the Company could
    redeem up to 35% of the Mortgage Notes with the net cash
    proceeds of one or more offerings of equity securities at a
    redemption price of 111% of the principal amount of the Mortgage
    Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.

As a result of the consummation of the Mall Sale on May 17,
    2004 (as further described in Note 10 — Mall
    Sale), LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC were obligated to
    use the Excess Proceeds (as defined under the Indenture) from
    the Mall Sale to make an offer to purchase the maximum principal
    amount of Mortgage Notes that could be purchased out of the
    Excess Proceeds of the Mall Sale at an offer price in cash equal
    to 100% of the principal amount of the Mortgage Notes, plus
    accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, to
    the closing date of the offer (the “Asset Sale
    Offer”). The Asset Sale Offer closed on June 6, 2004,
    and $6.4 million of Mortgage Notes were tendered and
    re-purchased by the Company.

During February 2005, LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
    exercised an equity claw back under the Indenture pursuant to
    which the Company retired $291.1 million of the Mortgage
    Notes and paid $32.0 million of redemption premiums with
    the proceeds from LVSC’s initial public offering.
    Additionally, LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC retired
    $542.3 million in aggregate principal amount of the
    Mortgage Notes pursuant to a tender offer plus a make-whole
    premium and accrued interest of $90.3 million, with
    proceeds from the Senior Notes offering, cash on hand and
    proceeds from the Senior Secured Credit Facility. The total
    consideration paid to the tendering holders was
    $1,166.56 per $1,000 principal amount of Mortgage Notes
    (including a consent payment of $30 per $1,000 principal
    amount of Mortgage Notes tendered prior to February 1,
    2005). During March 2005, LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
    redeemed the remaining $10.2 million aggregate principal
    amount of



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

the outstanding Mortgage Notes at a price equal to 100% of the
    principal amount thereof plus a make-whole premium and accrued
    interest.

The Company incurred a charge of approximately
    $132.8 million for loss on early retirement of indebtedness
    during 2005 as a result of retiring the Mortgage Notes.

Venetian
    Intermediate Credit Facility

On March 27, 2003, Venetian Intermediate entered into a
    credit agreement (the “Venetian Intermediate Credit
    Agreement”) with a lender to provide $50.0 million of
    financing for The Sands Macao. The credit facility was paid in
    full during 2006.

Scheduled
    Maturities of Long-Term Debt

Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31,
    2006 are summarized as follows (in thousands):


$

6,486


1,153,139


56,279


897,650


622,931

Thereafter

1,408,000

$

4,144,485

Fair
    Values of Long-Term Debt

The fair value of the Senior Notes as of December 31, 2006
    and 2005 were $243.4 million and $241.3 million,
    respectively. The fair value of the Senior Notes is based on
    quoted market prices. The fair values of other indebtedness
    approximate their respective carrying amounts based on the
    nature of these variable interest rate facilities. The fair
    value of the interest rate cap agreements is based upon quotes
    from brokers which was $0.6 million as of December 31,
    2006 and 2005.

Note 9 —
    Income Taxes

The components of the (benefit) provision for income taxes are
    as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Federal:

Current

$

58,329

$

1,627

$

—

Deferred

3,914

2,623


Recognition of net deferred tax
    assets upon C Corporation conversion

—

—

(13,783

)

Total income tax (benefit)
    provision

$

62,243

$

4,250

$

(13,736

)



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate and
    the Company’s effective tax rate for the years ended
    December 31 and from the C Corporation conversion date,
    December 17, 2004, is as follows:

Period Ended

Year Ended December 31,

December 31,




Statutory federal income tax rate

35.00

%

35.00

%

35.00

%

Increase (decrease) in tax rate
    resulting from:

Foreign and U.S. tax rate
    differential

(16.41

)%

(23.14

)%

(25.45

)%

Tax exempt income of foreign
    subsidiary (Macao)

(10.20

)%

(14.07

)%

(13.67

)%

Valuation allowance

1.26

%

2.61

%

4.44

%

Other, net

2.69

%

1.08

%

0.22

%

Net deferred tax assets recognized
    upon termination of S corporation election

—

—

(158.64

)%

Effective tax rate

12.34

%

1.48

%

(158.10

)%

Consolidated income before taxes for U.S. and international
    operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005
    and from the C Corporation conversion date, December 17,
    2004, through December 31, 2004 is as follows (in
    thousands):

Period Ended

Year Ended December 31,

December 31,




Domestic

$

162,592

$

3,271

$


International

341,654

284,665

8,608

Total

$

504,246

$

287,936

$

8,688

The primary tax affected components of the Company’s net
    deferred tax assets are as follows (in thousands):

At December 31,



Deferred tax assets

Bad debt reserve

$

12,170

$

10,230

Accrued expenses

7,314

3,525

Deferred gain on the sale of the
    Mall

60,945

62,587

Net operating loss carryforward

—

3,053

Charitable contribution
    carryforward

—

2,825

Other

4,712

1,565

Net operating loss carryforward of
    foreign subsidiaries

23,582

17,386

Less: Valuation allowance

(23,582

)

(17,386

)

Total deferred tax assets

85,141

83,785

Deferred tax liabilities

Property and equipment

(67,807

)

(62,698

)

Prepaid expenses

(1,970

)

(1,809

)

Total deferred tax liabilities

(69,777

)

(64,507

)

Net deferred tax asset

$

15,364

$

19,278



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Domestic operating loss carryforwards were $8.7 million and
    $8.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
    2004, respectively. These losses were fully utilized during the
    year ended December 31, 2006. Operating loss carryforwards
    of the foreign subsidiaries were $195.2 million,
    $118.3 million and $29.1 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These
    losses begin to expire in 2007.

At December 31, 2006 and 2005, there was a
    $23.6 million and $17.4 million, respectively,
    valuation allowance provided on the foreign net operating loss
    carryforwards and other foreign deferred tax assets because
    management believes these assets do not meet the “more
    likely than not” criteria for recognition under
    SFAS No. 109. Management believes all other deferred
    tax assets are more likely than not to be realized because of
    the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences
    and expected future taxable income. Accordingly, there are no
    other valuation allowances provided at December 31, 2006
    and 2005.

Undistributed earnings of a subsidiary are accounted for as a
    temporary difference, except that deferred tax liabilities are
    not recorded for undistributed earnings of a foreign subsidiary
    that are deemed to be indefinitely reinvested in the foreign
    jurisdiction. The Company has a plan for reinvestment of
    undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries which
    demonstrates that such earnings will be indefinitely reinvested
    in the applicable jurisdictions. Should the Company change its
    plans, it would be required to record a significant amount of
    deferred tax liabilities. For the years ended December 31,
    2006 and 2005, the amount of undistributed earnings of foreign
    subsidiaries that the Company does not intend to repatriate was
    $719.1 million and $373.1 million, respectively.
    Should these earnings be distributed in the form of dividends or
    otherwise, the distributions would be subject to
    U.S. federal income tax at the statutory rate of 35%, less
    foreign tax credits applicable to distributions, if any. In
    addition, such distributions would be subject to withholding
    taxes in the various tax jurisdictions.

As mentioned in Note 2 — Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies, the Company has a temporary income tax
    exemption in Macao through 2008. Had the Company been required
    to pay income taxes in Macao, consolidated net income would have
    been reduced by $45.2 million and $35.3 million, and
    diluted earning per share would have been reduced by $0.12 and
    $0.10 per share for the years ended December 31, 2006
    and 2005, respectively.

Note 10 —
    Mall Sale

Mall
    Sale and Related Matters

On April 12, 2004, the Company entered into an agreement to
    sell The Grand Canal Shops mall and lease certain restaurant and
    other retail space at the casino level of The Venetian (the
    “Master Lease”) to GGP for approximately
    $766.0 million (the “Mall Sale”). The Mall Sale
    closed on May 17, 2004 and the Company realized a gain of
    $417.6 million in connection with the Mall Sale. In
    conjunction with the Mall Sale, the Company repaid all of its
    $120.0 million secured Mall facility and redeemed
    $6.4 million of the Mortgage Notes pursuant to the Asset
    Sale Offer. Under the Master Lease agreement, The Venetian
    leased nineteen spaces on the casino level of The Venetian
    currently occupied by various tenants to GGP for 89 years
    with annual rent of one dollar per year and GGP assumed the
    various leases. Under generally accepted accounting principles,
    the Master Lease agreement does not qualify as a sale of the
    related assets, which were not separately legally demised.
    Accordingly, $109.2 million of the transaction has been
    deferred as prepaid operating lease payments to The Venetian,
    which will amortize into income on a straight-line basis over
    the

89-year

lease term. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005
    and 2004, $1.2 million, $1.2 million and
    $0.8 million, respectively, of this deferred item was
    amortized and is included in convention, retail and other
    revenue. In addition, the Company agreed with GGP to:
    (i) continue to be obligated to fulfill certain lease
    termination and asset purchase agreements as further described
    in Note 11 — Commitments and
    Contingencies — Other Ventures and Commitments;
    (ii) lease the Blue Man Group Theater space located within
    The Grand Canal Shops mall from GGP for a period of
    25 years with fixed minimum rent of $3.3 million per
    year with cost of living adjustments; (iii) operate the
    Gondola ride under an operating agreement for a period of
    25 years for an annual fee of $3.5 million; and
    (iv) lease certain office space from GGP for a period of
    10 years, subject to extension options for a period of up
    to 65 years, with annual rent of approximately
    $0.9 million. The lease payments



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

under clauses (ii) through (iv) above are subject to
    automatic increases beginning on the sixth lease year. The net
    present value of the lease payments under clauses (ii)
    through (iv) is $77.2 million. Under generally
    accepted accounting principles, a portion of the transaction
    must be deferred in an amount equal to the present value of the
    minimum lease payments set forth in the lease back agreements.
    This deferred gain will be amortized to reduce lease expense on
    a straight-line basis over the life of the leases. During the
    years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    $3.5 million, $3.5 million and $2.1 million,
    respectively, of this deferred item was amortized and is
    included as an offset to convention, retail and other expense.

As of December 31, 2006, the Company was obligated under
    (ii), (iii), and (iv) above to make future payments as
    follows (in thousands):


$

7,660


7,660


7,884


8,043


8,043

Thereafter

137,611

$

176,901

Phase
    II Mall

The Company formed the Phase II Mall Subsidiary on
    July 1, 2004 to develop and construct the Phase II
    mall. In connection with the Mall Sale, the Company entered into
    an agreement with GGP to construct and sell the Phase II
    mall for an amount equal to the greater of
    (i) $250.0 million; or (ii) the Phase II
    mall’s net operating income for months 19 through 30 of its
    operations (assuming that the rent due from all tenants in month
    30 was actually due in each of months 19 through 30) divided by
    a capitalization rate. The capitalization rate is 0.06 for every
    dollar of net operating income up to $38.0 million and 0.08
    for every dollar of net operating income above
    $38.0 million. On the date the Phase II mall opens to
    the public, GGP will be obligated to make an initial purchase
    price payment based on projected net operating income for the
    first 12 months of operations (but in no event less than
    $250.0 million). Every six months thereafter until the
    24 month anniversary of the opening date, the required
    purchase price will be adjusted (up or down, but never to less
    than $250.0 million) based on projected net operating
    income for the upcoming 12 months. The “final”
    purchase price adjustment (subject to audit thereafter) will be
    made on the

30-month

anniversary of the Phase II mall’s opening date based
    on the formula described above. For all purchase price and
    purchase price adjustment calculations, “net operating
    income” will be calculated by using the “accrual”
    method of accounting and, for purposes of calculating the final
    purchase price adjustment, by applying the base rent payable by
    all tenants in the last month of the applicable

12-month

period to the entire

12-month

period. The Phase II mall is expected to cost approximately
    $280.0 million (excluding incentive payments described
    below). Under the Mall Sale agreement, the Company has agreed to
    substantially complete construction of the Phase II mall
    before the earlier of 36 months after the date on which
    sufficient permits are received to allow the Phase II Mall
    Subsidiary to begin construction of the Phase II mall or
    March 1, 2008. These dates may be extended due to force
    majeure or certain other delays. In the event that the Company
    does not substantially complete construction of the
    Phase II mall on or before the earlier of these two dates
    (as such dates may be extended as described in the preceding
    sentences), the Company must pay liquidated damages of
    $5,000 per day for the first six months and
    $10,000 per day for the following six months if substantial
    completion does not occur by the end of six months after the
    completion deadline. If substantial completion has not occurred
    on or before one year after the deadline, the Company will be
    required to pay total liquidated damages in the amount of
    $100.0 million. In addition, failure to substantially
    complete construction of the Phase II mall before the

agreed-upon

deadline would constitute an event of default under the Senior
    Secured Credit Facility and the Company’s disbursement
    agreement.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

In the event that the Company complies with all of its
    obligations under the aforementioned agreement with GGP
    concerning the Phase II mall, and GGP fails to acquire the
    membership interests in the entity owning the Phase II
    mall, the Company will be entitled to:

•

sue GGP for specific performance;

•

liquidated damages in the amount of $100.0 million; or

•

purchase the interest of GGP in The Grand Canal Shops mall for
    the lesser of (i) $766.0 million and (ii) the
    fair market value minus $100.0 million.

The Company made an equity contribution to the Phase II
    Mall Subsidiary of $63.2 million on July 15, 2004,
    which was used to make certain incentive payments and pay
    related payroll taxes to the Principal Stockholder and other
    senior executives of the Company for their work in connection
    with the Phase II mall sale and related financing
    transactions. The Company made additional equity contributions
    of $25.8 million during 2004 as required under the
    Phase II mall construction loan agreement (See
    Note 8 — Long-Term Debt — Phase II
    Mall Construction Loan) and further equity contributions of
    $7.9 million and $13.0 million during 2005 and 2006,
    respectively.

Note 11 —
    Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

The Company is involved in other litigation in addition to those
    noted below, arising in the normal course of business.
    Management has made certain estimates for potential litigation
    costs based upon consultation with legal counsel. Actual results
    could differ from these estimates; however, in the opinion of
    management, such litigation and claims will not have a material
    effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The
    Palazzo Construction Litigation

Lido Casino Resort, LLC (“Lido”), a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of the Company, and its construction manager, Taylor
    International Corp. (“Taylor”), filed suit in March
    2006 in the United States District Court for the District of
    Nevada (the “District Court”) against Malcolm Drilling
    Company, Inc. (“Malcolm”), the contractor on The
    Palazzo project responsible for completing certain foundation
    work (the “District Court Case”). Lido and Taylor
    claim in the District Court Case that Malcolm was in default of
    its contract for performing defective work, failing to correct
    defective work, failing to complete its work and causing delay
    to the project. Malcolm responded by filing a Notice of a Lien
    with the Clerk of Clark County, Nevada in March 2006 in the
    amount of approximately $19.0 million (the
    “Lien”). In April 2006, Lido and Taylor moved in the
    District Court Case to strike or, in the alternative, to reduce
    the amount of, the Lien, claiming, among other things, that the
    Lien was excessive for including claims for disruption and
    delay, which Lido and Taylor claim are not lienable under Nevada
    law (the “Lien Motion”). Malcolm responded in April
    2006 by filing a complaint against Lido and Taylor in District
    Court of Clark County, Nevada seeking to foreclose on the Lien
    against Taylor, claiming breach of contract, a cardinal change
    in the underlying contract, unjust enrichment against Lido and
    Taylor and bad faith and fraud against Taylor (the “State
    Court Case”), and simultaneously filed a motion in the
    District Court Case, seeking to dismiss the District Court Case
    on abstention grounds (the “Abstention Motion”). In
    response, in June 2006, Lido filed a motion to dismiss the State
    Court Case based on the principle of the “prior
    pending” District Court Case (the “Motion to
    Dismiss”). In June 2006, the Abstention Motion was granted
    in part by the United States District Court, the District Court
    Case was stayed pending the outcome of the Motion to Dismiss in
    the State Court Case and the Lien Motion was denied without
    prejudice. Lido and Malcolm then entered into a stipulation
    under which Lido withdrew the Motion to Dismiss, and in July
    2006 filed a replacement lien motion in the State Court Case.
    The lien motion in the State Court Case was denied in August
    2006 and Lido and Taylor filed a permitted interlocutory notice
    of appeal to the Supreme Court of Nevada in September 2006. This
    matter is in the preliminary stages and based upon the advice of
    legal counsel, management has determined that based on
    proceedings to date, it is currently unable to determine the
    probability of the outcome of this matter. Lido intends to
    defend itself against the claims pending in the State Court Case.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Litigation
    Relating to Macao Casino

On October 15, 2004, Richard Suen and Round Square Company
    Limited filed an action against Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas
    Sands Inc., Sheldon G. Adelson and William P. Weidner in the
    District Court of Clark County, Nevada, asserting a breach of an
    alleged agreement to pay a success fee of $5.0 million and
    2.0% of the net profit from the Company’s Macao resort
    operations to the plaintiffs as well as other related claims. In
    March 2005, Las Vegas Sands Corp. was dismissed as a party
    without prejudice based on a stipulation to do so between the
    parties. On May 17, 2005, the plaintiffs filed their first
    amended complaint. On February 2, 2006, defendants filed a
    motion for partial summary judgment with respect to
    plaintiffs’ fraud claims against all the defendants. On
    March 16, 2006, an order was filed by the court granting
    defendants’ motion for partial summary judgment. Pursuant
    to the order filed March 16, 2006, plaintiffs’ fraud
    claims set forth in the first amended complaint were dismissed
    with prejudice as against all defendants. The order also
    dismissed with prejudice the first amended complaint against
    defendants Sheldon G. Adelson and William P. Weidner. This
    action is in a preliminary stage and based upon the advice of
    legal counsel, management has determined that based on
    proceedings to date, it is currently unable to determine the
    probability of the outcome of this matter. The Company intends
    to defend this matter vigorously.

On January 26, 2006, Clive Basset Jones, Darryl Steven
    Turok (a/k/a Dax Turok) and Cheong Jose Vai Chi

(a/k/a

Cliff
    Cheong), filed an action against Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, LLC, Venetian Venture Development, LLC and various
    unspecified individuals and companies in the District Court of
    Clark County, Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of an
    agreement to pay a success fee in an amount equal to 5% of the
    ownership interest in the entity that owns and operates the
    Macau SAR gaming subconcession as well as other related claims.
    In April 2006, Las Vegas Sands Corp. was dismissed as a party
    without prejudice based on a stipulation to do so between the
    parties. Other than the complaint which has been filed, and the
    Company’s answer, there is currently no pending activity in
    the matter. This action is in a preliminary stage and discovery
    has begun. Based upon the advice of legal counsel, management
    has determined that based on proceedings to date, it is
    currently unable to determine the probability of the outcome of
    this matter. The Company intends to defend this matter
    vigorously.

On February 5, 2007, Asian American Entertainment
    Corporation, Limited (“AAEC”) filed an action against
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (“LVSI”), Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC (“VCR”), Venetian Venture Development, LLC
    (“Venetian Venture Development”), William P. Weidner
    and David Friedman in the United States District Court for the
    District of Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of contract by
    LVSI, VCR and Venetian Venture Development of an agreement under
    which AAEC would work to obtain a gaming license in Macao and,
    if successful, AAEC would jointly operate a casino, hotel and
    related facilities in Macao with Venetian Venture Development
    and Venetian Venture Development would receive fees and a
    minority equity interest in the venture and breach of fiduciary
    duties by all of the defendants. The plaintiffs have requested
    an unspecified amount of actual, compensatory and punitive
    damages, disgorgement of profits related to the Company’s
    Macao gaming license. Other than the complaint which has been
    filed, there is currently no pending activity in the matter.
    This action is in a preliminary stage and based upon the advice
    of legal counsel, management has determined that based on
    proceedings to date, it is currently unable to determine the
    probability of the outcome of this matter. The Company intends
    to defend this matter vigorously.

Macao
    Concession and Subconcession

On June 26, 2002, the Macao government granted a concession
    to operate casinos in Macao through June 26, 2022, subject
    to certain qualifications, to Galaxy Casino Company Limited
    (“Galaxy”), a consortium of Macao and Hong Kong-based
    investors. During December 2002, Venetian Macau Limited
    (“Venetian Macau”) and Galaxy entered into a
    subconcession agreement which was recognized and approved by the
    Macao government and allows Venetian Macau to develop and
    operate casino projects, including The Sands Macao, separately
    from Galaxy. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the Macao
    government may redeem the subconcession agreement by providing
    the Company at lease one year prior notice.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Under the subconcession agreement, Venetian Macau was obligated
    to develop and open The Venetian Macao by June 2006 and a
    convention center by December 2006, and invest, or cause to be
    invested, at least 4.4 billion patacas (approximately
    $549.3 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2006) in various development projects in
    Macao by June 2009. The Company has spent more than the required
    minimum amount. In February 2006, the Company received an
    extension of the June and December 2006 construction deadlines
    for The Venetian Macao and the convention center to December
    2007. The Company currently expects to open The Venetian Macao
    and the convention center in summer 2007. If the Company fails
    to meet the December 2007 deadline, the Company could lose its
    right to continue to operate The Sands Macao or any other
    facilities developed under its Macao gaming subconcession and
    its investment to date in construction of The Venetian Macao and
    other Cotai Strip properties could be lost. To support this
    obligation, a Macao bank and a subsidiary of the Company, Lido
    Casino Resort Holding Company, LLC, have guaranteed
    500.0 million patacas (approximately $62.4 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006) of
    Venetian Macau’s legal and contractual obligations to the
    Macao government until March 31, 2007. Venetian Macau has
    granted a junior lien on the Venetian Macau’s rights over
    the land upon which The Sands Macao is constructed to support
    the guarantee issued by the Macao bank under the Venetian Macau
    subconcession.

Under the subconcession, the Company is obligated to pay to the
    Macao government an annual premium with a fixed portion and a
    variable portion based on the number and type of gaming tables
    it employs and gaming machines it operates. The fixed portion of
    the premium is equal to 30.0 million patacas (approximately
    $3.7 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2006). The variable portion is equal to
    300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for
    certain kinds of games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming
    table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical or
    mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines
    (approximately $37,454, $18,727 and $125, respectively, at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006), subject to
    a minimum of 45.0 million patacas (or $5.6 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2006). The Company
    is also obligated to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross
    gaming revenues and applicable withholding taxes. The Company
    must also contribute 4% of its gross gaming revenue to utilities
    designated by the Macao government, a portion of which must be
    used for promotion of tourism in Macao. As of December 31,
    2006, the Company was obligated under its subconcession to make
    minimum future payments of approximately $9.4 million in
    each of the next five years and approximately $98.3 million
    thereafter through June 2022. These amounts are expected to
    increase substantially as the Company completes The Venetian
    Macao in 2007, which is planned to have approximately 850 table
    games and approximately 4,100 slots with a final capacity of
    approximately 1,150 table games and 7,000 slot machines, and the
    other Cotai Strip properties, which are planned to have
    approximately 1,750 table games and approximately 9,000 slot
    machines in total.

Currently, the gaming tax in Macao is calculated as a percentage
    of gross gaming revenue. However, unlike Nevada, gross gaming
    revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a
    result, if the Company extends credit to its customers in Macao
    and is unable to collect on the related receivables, the Company
    must pay taxes on its winnings from these customers even though
    it was unable to collect on the related receivables. If the laws
    are not changed, the Company’s business in Macao may not be
    able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to its
    customers. Although there are proposals to revise the gaming tax
    laws in Macao, there can be no assurance that the laws will be
    changed.

Singapore
    Development Project

On August 23, 2006, the Company entered into the
    Development Agreement, which requires it to construct and
    operate the Marina Bay Sands in accordance with the
    Company’s proposal for this integrated resort and in
    accordance with that agreement. Based on the proposal the
    Company submitted to the Singapore government, it will cost
    approximately $3.6 billion, inclusive of the land premium,
    taxes and other fees previously paid to develop and construct
    the Marina Bay Sands. As discussed in Note 8 —
    Long-Term Debt — Singapore Credit Facility, the
    Company entered into the Singapore Credit Facility to satisfy
    near-term development costs and to satisfy some of its



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

obligations under the Development Agreement. The Company intends
    to obtain long-term financing in an amount necessary to fund the
    construction of the Marina Bay Sands.

Leases

Venetian
    Macau

During 2003, Venetian Macau entered into a

25-year

land
    lease agreement with the Macao government for a six acre parcel
    of land on which The Sands Macao was constructed. The land
    concession will expire in 2028 and is renewable. The land
    concession requires the Company to pay a premium which is
    payable over a number of years. In addition, the Company is also
    obligated to pay rent annually for the term of the land
    concession. The rent amount may be revised every five years by
    the Macao government. As of December 31, 2006, Venetian
    Macau was obligated under its leases to make future payments as
    follows (in thousands):


$

2,988


2,988







Thereafter

2,758

$

9,220

During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    the Company recorded $0.8 million, $0.7 million and
    $0.5 million, respectively, in rental expense related to
    this land lease.

In February 2007, the Company received the final draft of the
    land concession agreement from the Macao government pursuant to
    which the Company was awarded a concession by lease for
    parcels 1, 2 and 3 on the Cotai Strip, including the sites
    on which it is building The Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons
    hotel. The Company has accepted the conditions of the draft land
    concession and has made an initial premium payment of
    $106.5 million towards the aggregate land premium of
    $323.7 million. Additionally, $24.1 million has been
    paid or will be paid in the form of the cost of the reclamation
    work and other works done on the land and the installation costs
    of an electrical substation with the remaining amount payable
    over time. The land concession will not become effective until
    the date it is published in Macao’s Official Gazette. Once
    the land concession is effective, the Company will be required
    to make additional land premium and annual rent payments
    relating to parcels 1, 2 and 3 in the amounts and at the
    times specified in the land concession.

Energy
    Services Agreements

During 1997, Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface and others
    entered into separate energy service agreements with a heating,
    ventilation and air conditioning (“HVAC”) provider
    (the “HVAC Provider”). Under the terms of the energy
    services agreement and other separate energy services
    agreements, HVAC energy and services will be purchased by
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface and others over initial
    terms expiring in 2009 with an option to collectively extend the
    terms of their agreements for two consecutive five-year periods.
    The HVAC plant was constructed on land owned by the Company and
    leased to the HVAC Provider. The HVAC equipment is owned by the
    HVAC Provider, which paid all costs (“HVAC Costs”) in
    connection with the purchase and installation of the HVAC
    equipment. The total HVAC Costs were $70.0 million. The
    charges payable under the separate energy services agreements
    include a fixed component applied to the HVAC Costs paid by the
    HVAC Provider, reimbursement of operational and related costs
    and a management fee.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2006, Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and
    Interface were obligated under the energy services agreements to
    make future minimum payments as follows (in thousands):


$

6,826


6,826


3,412

Total minimum payments

$

17,064

Expenses incurred under the energy services agreements were
    $6.8 million, $6.8 million and $7.4 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

Operating
    Lease Agreements

The Company leases real estate and various equipment under
    operating lease arrangements and is also party to several
    service agreements with terms in excess of one year.

At December 31, 2006, the Company was obligated under
    non-cancelable operating leases to make future minimum lease
    payments as follows (in thousands):


$

17,784


14,667


8,144


2,528


1,398

Thereafter

113,157

Total minimum payments

$

157,678

Expenses incurred under these operating lease agreements totaled
    $8.3 million, $7.0 million and $2.4 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

The Company is party to other operating lease agreements, which
    are short-term and variable-rate in nature. Expenses incurred
    under these operating lease agreements totaled
    $1.5 million, $1.6 million and $1.7 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively.

Other
    Ventures and Commitments

The Company has entered into employment agreements with seven of
    the Company’s senior executives, with remaining terms of
    one to three years. As of December 31, 2006, the Company
    was obligated to make future payments as follows (in thousands):


$

8,380


8,123


7,437

Total minimum payments

$

23,940

During 2003, the Company entered into three lease termination
    and asset purchase agreements with The Grand Canal Shops mall
    tenants. In each case, the Company has obtained title to
    leasehold improvements and other fixed assets, which were
    originally purchased by The Grand Canal Shops mall tenants, and
    which have been recorded at estimated fair market value, which
    approximated the discounted present value of the Company’s
    obligation to the former tenants. As of December 31, 2006,
    the Company was obligated under these agreements to make future
    payments of $0.7 million for each of the next five years
    and $8.0 million thereafter.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

During 2006, the Company entered into commitments to purchase
    ferries to be built over the next two years for the
    Company’s Macao operations. As of December 31, 2006,
    the Company was obligated to make future payments of
    $99.7 million and $35.6 million during the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively.

Note 12 —
    Stock-Based Employee Compensation

The Company has two nonqualified stock option plans, the 1997
    Plan and the 2004 Plan, which are described below. The plans
    provide for the granting of stock options pursuant to the
    applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and
    regulations. The compensation expense for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 was $14.7 million, which is
    comprised of $13.4 million from stock options and
    $1.3 million from restricted stock. In accordance with APB
    Opinion No. 25, the Company did not recognize compensation
    expense for employee stock option awards for the years ended
    December 31, 2005 and 2004, for those options where the
    exercise price of the Company’s employee stock awards
    equaled the market price of the underlying stock on the date of
    grant. The total income tax benefit recognized in the
    consolidated statement of operations for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 for stock-based compensation arrangements
    was $3.6 million. Compensation cost associated with
    individuals responsible for construction activities was
    capitalized as part of property and equipment in the amount of
    $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. For
    the year ended December 31, 2006, basic and diluted
    earnings per share were $0.03 lower than if the Company had
    continued to account for stock-based compensation under APB
    Opinion No. 25.

LVSLLC
    1997 Fixed Stock Option Plan

The 1997 Plan provides for 19,952,457 shares (on a
    post-split basis) of common stock of LVSLLC to be reserved for
    issuance to officers and other key employees or consultants of
    LVSLLC or any LVSLLC Affiliates or Subsidiaries (each as defined
    in the 1997 Plan) pursuant to options granted under the 1997
    Plan.

The 1997 Plan provides that the Principal Stockholder may, at
    any time, assume the 1997 Plan or certain obligations under the
    1997 Plan, in which case the Principal Stockholder will have all
    the rights, powers and responsibilities granted LVSLLC or its
    board of directors under the 1997 Plan with respect to such
    assumed obligations. The Principal Stockholder assumed
    LVSLLC’s obligations under the 1997 Plan to sell shares to
    optionees upon the exercise of their options with respect to
    options granted prior to July 15, 2004. LVSLLC is
    responsible for all other obligations under the 1997 Plan. LVSC
    assumed all of the obligations of LVSLLC and the Principal
    Stockholder under the 1997 Plan (other than the obligation of
    the Principal Stockholder to issue 984,321 shares under
    options granted prior to July 15, 2004), in connection with
    its initial public offering.

On July 30, 2004, fully vested options to purchase
    3,052,460 shares of common stock were granted to employees
    of the Company by the board of directors under the
    Company’s stock option plan at an exercise price of
    $5.64 per share. The fair value of the common stock at the
    dates of grant for the stock options granted during July 2004
    was originally estimated by management based principally upon a
    May 31, 2004 valuation of the fair value of the common
    stock of LVSLLC and its subsidiaries by an unaffiliated
    valuation specialist. The Company did not deem it necessary to
    obtain an additional third party valuation at the time of the
    option grants in July because it had already received an
    independent valuation as of a date (May 31) very close
    in time to the option grant dates. However, in retrospective
    review and given the proximity of the July 2004 grant dates to
    the proposed initial public offering date, the Company believed
    at the time it prepared its third quarter financial statements
    that the fair value of its common stock of $21.77 per
    share, based upon the mid-point of a preliminary estimated range
    for the proposed valuation in connection with the initial public
    offering, was the best estimate of the fair value of the common
    stock underlying the options at their date of grant. As a
    result, the intrinsic value of the fully vested options granted
    during the year ended December 31, 2004 of
    $49.2 million ($16.13 per share) was recorded as
    compensation expense and is included in corporate expense in the
    accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The
    principal factors used to determine the mid-point of the
    preliminary estimated range of the shares to be sold in the
    Company’s initial public offering were (i) the
    projections of the Company’s three operating properties,
    The Venetian, The Sands Macao and The Sands Expo Center, and two
    future projects, The Venetian Macao and The Palazzo,
    (ii) the trading



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

multiples of gaming, hospitality and other leisure industry
    companies and (iii) discount rates appropriate for
    comparable projects.

The fully vested options to purchase the 3,052,460 shares
    could only be exercised by the delivery of cash or check, or its
    equivalent. Four employees of the Company received options to
    purchase 942,820, 707,115, 471,410, and 931,115, respectively,
    shares of common stock. On August 2, 2004, one employee
    exercised all of the options granted to him. Another employee
    exercised options granted to him to acquire 353,558 shares
    of common stock on August 2, 2004 and 353,557 shares
    of common stock on November 30, 2004. Another employee
    exercised options granted to him to purchase 235,705 shares
    of common stock on August 2, 2004 and 235,705 shares
    of common stock on November 30, 2004. The final employee
    exercised all of the options granted to him during 2005. The
    Board of Directors agreed not to grant any additional stock
    options under the 1997 Plan following the initial public
    offering and there were no options outstanding under it during
    the year ended December 31, 2006.

The weighted average grant date value of 3,052,460 options
    granted under the 1997 Plan during 2004 was $21.44 per
    share and was computed under the minimum value method with the
    following weighted average assumptions; risk free interest rate
    of 3.84%; no expected dividends; and an expected life of


/


year. The total intrinsic value of options exercised under the
    1997 Plan during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004
    were $38.2 million and $34.2 million, respectively.

Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan

The Company adopted the 2004 Plan for grants of option to
    purchase its common stock. The purpose of the 2004 Plan is to
    give the Company a competitive edge in attracting, retaining,
    and motivating employees, directors and consultants and to
    provide the Company with a stock plan providing incentives
    directly related to increases in its stockholder value. Any of
    the Company’s subsidiaries’ or affiliates’
    employees, directors or officers and many of its consultants are
    eligible for awards under the 2004 Plan. The 2004 Plan provides
    for an aggregate of 26,344,000 shares of the Company’s
    common stock to be available for awards. The 2004 Plan has a
    term of ten years and no further awards may be granted after the
    expiration of the term. The compensation committee may grant
    awards of nonqualified stock options, incentive (qualified)
    stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock
    awards, restricted stock units, stock bonus awards, performance
    compensation awards or any combination of the foregoing. As of
    December 31, 2006, there were 21,436,738 shares
    available for grant under the 2004 Plan.

Stock option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to
    the fair market value (as defined in the 2004 Plan) of the
    Company’s stock on the date of grant. The outstanding stock
    options generally vest over four years and have

10-year

contractual terms. Compensation cost for all stock option
    grants, which all have graded vesting, is net of estimated
    forfeitures and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the
    awards’ respective requisite service periods. The Company
    estimates the fair value of stock options using the
    Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Expected volatilities are
    based on the historical volatilities from a selection of
    companies from the Company’s peer group due to the
    Company’s lack of historical information. The Company used
    the simplified method for estimating expected option life, as
    the options qualify as “plain-vanilla” options. The
    risk-free interest rate for periods equal to the expected term
    of the stock option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield
    curve in effect at the time of grant.

The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the grant
    date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
    following weighted average assumptions:




Weighted average volatility

31.25

%

31.45

%

40.00

%

Expected term (in years)

6.0

6.0

6.0

Risk-free rate

4.54

%

4.14

%

3.66

%

Expected dividends

—

—

—



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The weighted average grant date fair value of 3,164,243 options,
    304,820 options and 2,185,783 options granted under the 2004
    Plan during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively, was $21.24, $13.87 and $12.78 per
    share, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options
    exercised under the 2004 Plan during the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $10.3 million and
    $0.1 million, respectively.

A summary of the status of the Company’s 2004 Plan for the
    year ended December 31, 2006 is presented below:

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Remaining

Aggregate

Exercise

Contractual

Intrinsic

Shares

Price

Life (Years)

Value

Outstanding at January 1, 2006

2,097,960

$

29.83

Granted

3,164,243

53.48

Exercised

(240,912

)

30.01

Forfeited

(445,789

)

35.67

Outstanding at December 31,

4,575,502

$

45.61

8.83

$

200,727,273

Exercisable at December 31,

352,075

$

29.29

7.97

$

21,191,394

Restricted
    Stock Awards

A summary of the status of the Company’s nonvested
    restricted shares for the year ended December 31, 2006 is
    presented below:

Weighted Average

Grant Date

Shares

Fair Value

Nonvested at January 1, 2006

8,088

$

37.09

Granted

77,829

44.00

Vested

(8,088

)

37.09

Forfeited

(5,869

)

42.59

Nonvested at December 31, 2006

71,960

$

44.12

As of December 31, 2006, there was $55.8 million of
    unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures of
    8.0%, related to nonvested stock options and there was
    $2.1 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to
    nonvested restricted stock. The stock option and restricted
    stock costs are expected to be recognized over a weighted
    average period of 3.2 years and 1.9 years,
    respectively.

For the year ended December 31, 2006, cash received from
    stock option exercises was $7.2 million and the tax benefit
    realized for the tax deductions from those exercises totaled
    $1.9 million. For the year ended December 31, 2005, no
    cash was received from stock option exercises; however, the tax
    benefit realized for the tax deduction from those exercises
    totaled $8.1 million.

Note 13 —
    Employee Benefit Plans

The Company is self-insured for health care and workers
    compensation benefits for its employees. The liability for
    claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not filed is
    included in other accrued liabilities in the consolidated
    balance sheet.

Participation in the Venetian Casino Resort, LLC 401(k) employee
    savings plan is available for all full-time employees. The
    savings plan allows participants to defer, on a pre-tax basis, a
    portion of their salary and accumulate



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

tax-deferred earnings as a retirement fund. The Company matches
    150% of the first $390 of employee contributions and 50% of
    employee contributions in excess of $390 up to a maximum of 5%
    of participating employee’s eligible gross wages. For the
    years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the
    Company’s matching contributions under the savings plan
    were $4.5 million, $3.1 million and $2.7 million,
    respectively.

Participation in Venetian Macau’s provident retirement fund
    is available for all permanent employees after a three-month
    probation period. Venetian Macau contributes 5% of each
    employee’s basic salary to the fund and the employee is
    eligible to receive 30% of these contributions after working for
    three consecutive years, gradually increasing to 100% after
    working for ten years. For the year ended December 31,
    2006, Venetian Macau’s contributions into the provident
    fund were $4.9 million. No contributions were made during
    2005 and 2004.

Note 14 —
    Related Party Transactions

The Principal Stockholder is a partner in four entities that
    operate restaurants in The Venetian. The terms and conditions of
    the leases granted by the Company for such restaurants were at
    amounts which management believed would be no more favorable
    than those negotiated with independent third parties. Valentino
    Las Vegas, LLC and Night Market, LLC paid The Venetian
    $0.5 million and Postrio Las Vegas, LLC and Carnevale
    Coffee Bar, LLC paid the Grand Canal Shops II, LLC
    $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The
    Company purchased the lease interest and assets of Carnevale
    Coffee Bar, LLC during 2003 for $3.1 million, payable in
    installments of $0.6 million during 2003, and
    $0.3 million annually over ten years, beginning in 2004
    through September 1, 2013. As a result of the sale of the
    Mall (See Note 10 — Mall Sale), there were no
    amounts paid to the Company for the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005 from the entities noted above.

The Company paid approximately $4.3 million,
    $3.0 million and $3.1 million during the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, to a travel
    agent and charter tour operator for travel related services,
    which is controlled by the Principal Stockholder.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Principal
    Stockholder purchased certain banquet room and catering goods
    and services from The Venetian of approximately
    $1.0 million. No such goods or services were purchased
    during 2006.

The Company purchased hotel guest amenities from a company that
    is controlled by the Principal Stockholder’s brother. The
    total amount paid was approximately $1.2 million,
    $1.8 million and $2.4 million during the years ended
    December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2004,
    the Company also paid the Principal Stockholder’s brother a
    finder’s fee of $1.3 million in connection with
    securing an agreement with a laundry provider.

During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the
    Company incurred and paid certain expenses totaling
    $1.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively, to its
    Principal Stockholder related to the Company’s use of his
    personal aircraft for business purposes. In addition, during the
    years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company charged
    and received from the Principal Stockholder $3.3 million
    and $1.2 million, respectively, related to aviation costs
    incurred by the Company for the Principal Stockholder’s use
    of Company aviation personnel and assets for personal purposes.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company incurred certain
    expenses and had certain payables totaling $1.7 million and
    $0.9 million, respectively to its Principal Stockholder
    related to the Company’s use of his personal aircraft for
    business purposes.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 15 —
    Segment Information

The Company reviews the results of operations based on the
    following geographic segments: (1) Las Vegas, which
    includes The Venetian, The Sands Expo Center and The Palazzo
    (currently under construction) and (2) Macao, which
    includes The Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao (currently under
    construction) and other development projects. In addition,
    Singapore, which includes the Marina Bay Sands (currently in
    development), will be reported as a separate segment. Effective
    April 1, 2006, the Company changed its segments based upon
    changes in the information used by the chief operating decision
    maker to include The Sands Expo Center within the Las Vegas
    segment. The information for the years ended December 31,
    2005 and 2004 has been reclassified to conform to the current
    presentation. The Company’s segment information is as
    follows for the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005
    and 2004 (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Net Revenues

Las Vegas

$

959,700

$

844,313

$

799,846

Macao

1,277,159

896,599

397,210

Total net revenues

$

2,236,859

$

1,740,912

$

1,197,056

Adjusted
    EBITDAR

(1)

Las Vegas

$

368,570

$

323,549

$

314,759

Macao

455,755

341,747

159,529

Total adjusted EBITDAR

824,325

665,296

474,288

Other Operating Costs and
    Expenses

Corporate expense

(59,570

)

(38,297

)

(126,356

)

Rental expense

(13,478

)

(14,841

)

(12,033

)

Depreciation and amortization

(110,771

)

(95,296

)

(69,432

)

Gain (loss) on disposal of assets

(2,624

)

(1,441

)

385,927

Pre-opening expense

(37,673

)

(3,732

)

(19,025

)

Development expense

(26,112

)

(22,238

)

(14,901

)

Operating income

574,097

489,451

618,468

Other Non-Operating Costs and
    Expenses

Interest income

66,191

33,111

7,740

Interest expense, net of amounts
    capitalized

(135,853

)

(96,292

)

(138,077

)

Other expense

(189

)

(1,334

)

(131

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

—

(137,000

)

(6,553

)

Income before income taxes

504,246

287,936

481,447

Benefit (provision) for income
    taxes

(62,243

)

(4,250

)

13,736

Net income

$

442,003

$

283,686

$

495,183

(1)

Adjusted EBITDAR is net income before interest, income taxes,
    depreciation and amortization, pre-opening expense, development
    expense, other expense, gain (loss) on disposal of assets, loss
    on early retirement of debt, rental expense and corporate
    expense. Adjusted EBITDAR is used by management as the primary
    measure of operating performance of its properties and to
    compare the operating performance of its properties with those
    of its competitors.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Year Ended December 31,




Capital Expenditures

Las Vegas Sands Corp. and Other

$

49,506

$


$

40,032

Las Vegas:

The Venetian

109,119

138,015

117,578

The Palazzo

530,455

333,835

110,342

Macao:

The Sands Macao

98,498

39,486

190,049

The Venetian Macao

1,023,861

348,305

7,747

Other Development Projects

100,695


—

Singapore

13,157

—

—

Total capital expenditures

$

1,925,291

$

860,621

$

465,748

Year Ended December 31,



Total Assets

Las Vegas Sands Corp. and Other

$

209,701

$

307,679

Las Vegas:

The Venetian

1,991,566

2,080,931

The Palazzo

1,179,157

605,320

Macao:

The Sands Macao

537,990

425,597

The Venetian Macao

2,138,535

459,333

Other Development Projects

170,441


Singapore

899,068

—

Total consolidated assets

$

7,126,458

$

3,879,739

Note 16 —
    Dividends

Immediately prior to the July 29, 2004 acquisition of
    Interface by LVSLLC, Interface distributed approximately
    $15.2 million to its sole stockholder, who is also the
    Principal Stockholder of LVSC. The distribution was comprised of
    $12.9 million of cash, $1.9 million of receivables due
    from the Principal Stockholder and $0.4 million of certain
    fixed and other assets. Additionally, as further described in
    Note 2 — Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies, the Company declared tax distributions to its
    stockholders of $129.0 million during 2004. There were no
    dividends declared during 2006 and 2005.

Note 17 —
    Condensed Consolidating Financial Information

LVSC is the obligor under the 6.375% Senior Notes due 2015
    issued by LVSC on February 10, 2005. LVSLLC, Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC, Mall Intermediate Holding Company, LLC,
    Venetian Venture Development, LLC, Venetian Transport, LLC,
    Venetian Marketing, Inc., Lido Intermediate Holding Company, LLC
    and Lido Casino Resort, LLC (collectively, the “Guarantor
    Subsidiaries”) have jointly and severally guaranteed the
    6.375% Senior Notes on a full and unconditional basis.

The condensed consolidating financial information of the
    Company, the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the non-guarantor
    subsidiaries on a combined basis as of December 31, 2006
    and 2005, and for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2006, is as follows (in thousands).



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS

December 31, 2006

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Cash and cash equivalents

$

69,100

$

84,581

$

314,385

$

—

$

468,066

Restricted cash

50,076

67,742

280,944

—

398,762

Intercompany receivables

170,844

59,004

—

(229,848

)

—

Accounts receivable, net


120,707

52,839

—

173,683

Intercompany notes receivable

73,154

52,736

—

(125,890

)

—

Inventories

—

10,100

2,191

—

12,291

Deferred income taxes

1,583

14,171

—

(66

)

15,688

Prepaid expenses and other

1,793

7,826

15,448

—

25,067

Total current assets

366,687

416,867

665,807

(355,804

)

1,093,557

Property and equipment, net

85,758

2,231,110

2,265,457

—

4,582,325

Investment in subsidiaries

1,919,079

831,931

—

(2,751,010

)

—

Deferred financing costs, net

1,176

23,113

46,092

—

70,381

Restricted cash

—

328,556

226,576

—

555,132

Deferred income taxes

—


4,141

(5,048

)

—

Leasehold interest in land, net

—

—

801,195

—

801,195

Other assets, net


12,468

11,322

—

23,868

Total assets

$

2,372,778

$

3,844,952

$

4,020,590

$

(3,111,862

)

$

7,126,458

Accounts payable

$


$

26,749

$

23,405

$

—

$

51,038

Construction payables


67,068

261,633

—

329,375

Intercompany payables

—

43,261

186,587

(229,848

)

—

Accrued interest payable

5,977


1,756

—

8,496

Other accrued liabilities

13,231

138,312

167,358

—

318,901

Intercompany notes payable

—

—

125,890

(125,890

)

—

Income taxes payable

20,352

—

—

—

20,352

Deferred income taxes

—

—


(66

)

—

Current maturities of long-term
    debt

—

1,800

4,686

—

6,486

Total current liabilities

41,118

277,953

771,381

(355,804

)

734,648

Other long-term liabilities

2,981

174,675

2,524

—

180,180

Deferred income taxes

5,372

—

—

(5,048

)


Long-term debt

248,153

1,473,245

2,414,754

—

4,136,152

Total liabilities

297,624

1,925,873

3,188,659

(360,852

)

5,051,304

Stockholders’ equity

2,075,154

1,919,079

831,931

(2,751,010

)

2,075,154

Total stockholders’ equity
    and liabilities

$

2,372,778

$

3,844,952

$

4,020,590

$

(3,111,862

)

$

7,126,458



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS

December 31,

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Cash and cash equivalents

$

202,196

$

87,173

$

167,477

$

—

$

456,846

Restricted cash

50,052


21,662

—

71,717

Intercompany receivables

2,207

3,373

4,195

(9,775

)

—

Accounts receivable, net


81,204

3,329

—

84,778

Intercompany notes receivable

121,784

—

—

(121,784

)

—

Inventories

—

8,584

1,383

—

9,967

Deferred income taxes

11,748

(2,871

)

(931

)

—

7,946

Prepaid expenses and other


6,141

6,875

—

13,452

Total current assets

388,668

183,607

203,990

(131,559

)

644,706

Property and equipment, net

38,471

1,744,352

817,645

—

2,600,468

Investment in subsidiaries

1,441,500

480,619

—

(1,922,119

)

—

Deferred financing costs, net

1,322

26,442

3,209

—

30,973

Restricted cash

—

571,143

—

—

571,143

Deferred income taxes

3,130

5,852

2,350

—

11,332

Other assets, net


12,485

8,553

—

21,117

Total assets

$

1,873,170

$

3,024,500

$

1,035,747

$

(2,053,678

)

$

3,879,739

Accounts payable

$


$

20,614

$

14,139

$

—

$

34,803

Construction payables

—

54,234

109,698

—

163,932

Intercompany payables

—

—

9,775

(9,775

)

—

Accrued interest payable

5,977

1,157


—

7,918

Other accrued liabilities

8,053

116,029

122,308

—

246,390

Intercompany notes payable

—

—

121,784

(121,784

)

—

Current maturities of long-term
    debt

—

2,400

4,925

—

7,325

Total current liabilities

14,080

194,434

383,413

(131,559

)

460,368

Other long-term liabilities

1,627

179,766

2,539

—

183,932

Long-term debt

247,925

1,208,800

169,176

—

1,625,901

Total liabilities

263,632

1,583,000

555,128

(131,559

)

2,270,201

Stockholders’ equity

1,609,538

1,441,500

480,619

(1,922,119

)

1,609,538

Total stockholders’ equity
    and liabilities

$

1,873,170

$

3,024,500

$

1,035,747

$

(2,053,678

)

$

3,879,739



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2006

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Revenues:

Casino

$

—

$

411,771

$

1,264,290

$

—

$

1,676,061

Rooms

—

343,995

6,611

—

350,606

Food and beverage

—

141,284

51,129

(4,594

)

187,819

Convention, retail and other

33,408

55,842

72,275

(35,833

)

125,692

Total revenues

33,408

952,892

1,394,305

(40,427

)

2,340,178

Less — promotional
    allowances

(625

)

(66,140

)

(36,554

)

—

(103,319

)

Net revenues

32,783

886,752

1,357,751

(40,427

)

2,236,859

Operating expenses:

Casino

—

187,431

737,839

(237

)

925,033

Rooms

—

85,420


—

85,651

Food and beverage

—

66,524

24,107

(1,518

)

89,113

Convention, retail and other

—

34,464

35,036

(5,185

)

64,315

Provision for doubtful accounts

—

17,645


—

18,067

General and administrative

—

178,682

85,160

(33,487

)

230,355

Corporate expense

59,220

—


—

59,570

Rental expense

—

11,841

1,637

—

13,478

Pre-opening expense

—

1,369

36,304

—

37,673

Development expense

3,280

(35

)

22,867

—

26,112

Depreciation and amortization

2,906

64,567

43,298

—

110,771

Loss on disposal of assets

—


1,940

—

2,624

65,406

648,592

989,191

(40,427

)

1,662,762

Operating income (loss)

(32,623

)

238,160

368,560

—

574,097

Other income (expense):

Interest income

12,457

31,571

30,186

(8,023

)

66,191

Interest expense, net of amounts
    capitalized

(16,921

)

(73,615

)

(53,340

)

8,023

(135,853

)

Other income (expense)

2,422

(478

)

(2,133

)

—

(189

)

Income from equity investment in
    subsidiaries

470,823

342,579

—

(813,402

)

—

Income before income taxes

436,158

538,217

343,273

(813,402

)

504,246

Benefit (provision) for income
    taxes

5,845

(67,394

)

(694

)

—

(62,243

)

Net income

$

442,003

$

470,823

$

342,579

$

(813,402

)

$

442,003



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2005

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Revenues:

Casino

$

—

$

367,915

$

882,175

$

—

$

1,250,090

Rooms

—

318,830

4,730

—

323,560

Food and beverage

—

119,301

31,108

(2,899

)

147,510

Convention, retail and other

17,909

39,047

65,328

(19,219

)

103,065

Total revenues

17,909

845,093

983,341

(22,118

)

1,824,225

Less — promotional
    allowances

(762

)

(56,951

)

(25,600

)

—

(83,313

)

Net revenues

17,147

788,142

957,741

(22,118

)

1,740,912

Operating expenses:

Casino

—

166,912

489,678

—

656,590

Rooms

—

81,778


—

82,058

Food and beverage

—

62,819

14,172

(255

)

76,736

Convention, retail and other

—

29,317

32,705

(3,954

)

58,068

Provision for doubtful accounts

—

9,101


—

9,358

General and administrative

—

148,043

62,672

(17,909

)

192,806

Corporate expense

38,200

—


—

38,297

Rental expense

—

13,280

1,561

—

14,841

Pre-opening expense

—


3,054

—

3,732

Development expense



21,375

—

22,238

Depreciation and amortization

2,037

64,954

28,305

—

95,296

Loss on disposal of assets

—

1,117


—

1,441

40,883

578,216

654,480

(22,118

)

1,251,461

Operating income (loss)

(23,736

)

209,926

303,261

—

489,451

Other income (expense):

Interest income

12,365

20,005

9,775

(9,034

)

33,111

Interest expense, net of amounts
    capitalized

(9,178

)

(71,271

)

(24,877

)

9,034

(96,292

)

Other expense

—

(1,211

)

(123

)

—

(1,334

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

—

(132,834

)

(4,166

)

—

(137,000

)

Income from equity investment in
    subsidiaries

298,967

284,534

—

(583,501

)

—

Income before income taxes

278,418

309,149

283,870

(583,501

)

287,936

Benefit (provision) for income
    taxes

5,268

(10,182

)


—

(4,250

)

Net income

$

283,686

$

298,967

$

284,534

$

(583,501

)

$

283,686



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2004

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Revenues:

Casino

$

—

$

320,990

$

387,574

$

—

$

708,564

Rooms

—

311,680


—

312,003

Food and beverage

—

108,511

15,896

(2,841

)

121,566

Convention, retail and other

—

41,037

78,597

(3,197

)

116,437

Total revenues

—

782,218

482,390

(6,038

)

1,258,570

Less — promotional
    allowances

—

(53,210

)

(8,304

)

—

(61,514

)

Net revenues

—

729,008

474,086

(6,038

)

1,197,056

Operating expenses:

Casino

—

143,925

196,427

(111

)

340,241

Rooms

—

77,108


—

77,249

Food and beverage

—

55,599

10,367

(1,790

)

64,176

Convention, retail and other

—

25,763

37,561

(3,269

)

60,055

Provision for doubtful accounts

—

7,959

—

—

7,959

General and administrative

—

128,535

44,953

(400

)

173,088

Corporate expense

—

62,793

64,031

(468

)

126,356

Rental expense

—

9,869

2,164

—

12,033

Pre-opening expense

—


18,030

—

19,025

Development expense

—

3,741

11,160

—

14,901

Depreciation and amortization

—

51,524

17,908

—

69,432

Loss on disposal of assets

—

31,536


—

31,649

Gain on sale of The Grand Canal
    Shops

—

(417,576

)

—

—

(417,576

)

—

181,771

402,855

(6,038

)

578,588

Operating income

—

547,237

71,231

—

618,468

Other income (expense):

Interest income


7,114

4,924

(4,804

)

7,740

Interest expense, net of amounts
    capitalized

—

(119,983

)

(22,898

)

4,804

(138,077

)

Other expense

—

—

(131

)

—

(131

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

—

(5,406

)

(1,147

)

—

(6,553

)

Preferred return on Redeemable
    Preferred Interest in Venetian Casino

Resort, LLC

—

(16,826

)

16,826

—

—

Income from equity investment in
    subsidiaries

494,677

69,572

—

(564,249

)

—

Income before income taxes

495,183

481,708

68,805

(564,249

)

481,447

Benefit for income taxes

—

12,969


—

13,736

Net income

$

495,183

$

494,677

$

69,572

$

(564,249

)

$

495,183



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2006

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Net cash provided by (used in)
    operating activities

$

(28,167

)

$

182,485

$

(351,038

)

$

—

$

(196,720

)

Cash flows from investing
    activities:

Change in restricted cash

(24

)

174,848

(485,389

)

—

(310,565

)

Capital expenditures

(49,519

)

(542,665

)

(1,333,107

)

—

(1,925,291

)

Notes receivable to Non-Guarantor
    Subsidiaries

(115,000

)

(75,000

)

—

190,000

—

Repayment of notes receivable from
    Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries

165,000

25,000

—

(190,000

)

—

Intercompany receivable to Las
    Vegas Sands Corp.

—

20,000

—

(20,000

)

—

Repayment of receivable from Las
    Vegas Sands Corp.

—

(20,000

)

—

20,000

—

Intercompany receivable to
    Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries

(104,464

)

(31,408

)

—

135,872

—

Capital contributions to
    subsidiaries

(9,549

)

(6,993

)

—

16,542

—

Net cash provided by (used in)
    investing activities

(113,556

)

(456,218

)

(1,818,496

)

152,414

(2,235,856

)

Cash flows from financing
    activities:

Proceeds from exercise of stock
    options

7,226

—

—

—

7,226

Tax benefit from stock option
    exercises

1,401

—

—

—

1,401

Capital contributions received

—

9,549

6,993

(16,542

)

—

Borrowings from Las Vegas Sands
    Corp.

—

—

219,464

(219,464

)

—

Borrowings from Guarantor
    Subsidiaries

20,000

—

106,408

(126,408

)

—

Repayment on borrowings from
    Guarantor Subsidiaries

(20,000

)

—

(25,000

)

45,000

—

Repayment on borrowings from Las
    Vegas Sands Corp.

—

—

(165,000

)

165,000

—

Proceeds from Macao credit facility

—

—

1,350,000

—

1,350,000

Proceeds from Singapore credit
    facility

—

—

892,076

—

892,076

Proceeds from senior secured credit
    facility-revolver

—

254,129

—

—

254,129

Proceeds from phase II mall
    construction loan

—

—

86,000

—

86,000

Proceeds from FF&E credit
    facility and other long-term debt

—

37,715


—

37,790

Repayments on Venetian Intermediate
    credit facility

—

—

(50,000

)

—

(50,000

)

Repayments on Macao credit facility

—

—

(50,000

)

—

(50,000

)

Repayment on senior secured credit
    facility-revolver

—

(25,000

)

—

—

(25,000

)

Repayments on FF&E credit
    facility and other long-term debt

—

(2,999

)

(14

)

—

(3,013

)

Repayments on The Sands Expo Center
    mortgage loan

—

—

(4,733

)

—

(4,733

)

Payments of deferred financing costs

—

(2,253

)

(50,641

)

—

(52,894

)

Net cash provided by (used in)
    financing activities

8,627

271,141

2,315,628

(152,414

)

2,442,982

Effect of exchange rate on cash

—

—


—


Increase (decrease) in cash and
    cash equivalents

(133,096

)

(2,592

)

146,908

—

11,220

Cash and cash equivalents at
    beginning of year

202,196

87,173

167,477

—

456,846

Cash and cash equivalents at end of
    year

$

69,100

$

84,581

$

314,385

$

—

$

468,066



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the year ended December 31, 2005

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Net cash provided by (used in)
    operating activities

$

(4,102

)

$

218,117

$

375,901

$

—

$

589,916

Cash flows from investing
    activities:

Change in restricted cash

(50,052

)

(213,007

)

(2,327

)

—

(265,386

)

Capital expenditures

(1,217

)

(429,103

)

(430,301

)

—

(860,621

)

Capital contributions to
    subsidiaries

(564,260

)

(63,741

)

—

628,001

—

Note receivable from Las Vegas
    Sands Corp.

(121,784

)

—

—

121,784

—

Intercompany payment for airplane
    transfer

(40,000

)

40,000

—

—

—

Net cash used in investing
    activities

(777,313

)

(665,851

)

(432,628

)

749,785

(1,126,007

)

Cash flows from financing
    activities:

Transaction costs, initial public
    offering

(487

)

—

—

—

(487

)

Dividends paid to shareholders

—

(21,052

)

—

—

(21,052

)

Proceeds from exercise of stock
    options


—

—

—


Capital contributions received

—

564,260

63,741

(628,001

)

—

Borrowings from Las Vegas Sands
    Corp.

—

—

121,784

(121,784

)

—

Repayments on 11% mortgage notes

—

(843,640

)

—

—

(843,640

)

Proceeds from 6.375% senior
    note, net of discount

247,722

—

—

—

247,722

Proceeds from senior secured credit
    facility-term B

—

305,000

—

—

305,000

Proceeds from senior secured credit
    facility-term B delayed

—

200,000

—

—

200,000

Proceeds from phase II mall
    construction loan

—

—

28,500

—

28,500

Repayments on Venetian Macao senior
    secured notes-tranches A and B

—

—

(120,000

)

—

(120,000

)

Proceeds from senior secured credit
    facility-revolver

—

31,000

—

—

31,000

Repayments on FF&E credit
    facility

—

(1,800

)

—

—

(1,800

)

Repayments on The Sands Expo Center
    mortgage loan

—

—

(3,687

)

—

(3,687

)

Repurchase premiums incurred in
    connection with refinancing transactions

—

(113,311

)

—

—

(113,311

)

Payments of deferred financing costs

(1,438

)

(9,783

)

(55

)

—

(11,276

)

Net change in intercompany accounts

(7,426

)

35,895

(28,469

)

—

—

Net cash provided by (used in)
    financing activities

238,684

146,569

61,814

(749,785

)

(302,718

)

Effect of exchange rate on cash

—

—


—


Increase (decrease) in cash and
    cash equivalents

(542,731

)

(301,165

)

5,844

—

(838,052

)

Cash and cash equivalents at
    beginning of year

744,927

388,338

161,633

—

1,294,898

Cash and cash equivalents at end of
    year

$

202,196

$

87,173

$

167,477

$

—

$

456,846



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the year ended December 31, 2004

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Net cash provided by operating
    activities

$


$

156,232

$

216,622

$

—

$

373,369

Cash flows from investing
    activities:

Proceeds from sale of The Grand
    Canal Shops, net of transaction costs

—

649,568

—

—

649,568

Change in restricted cash

—

(356,018

)

120,343

—

(235,675

)

Notes receivable from stockholders

—


(638

)

—


Capital expenditures

—

(210,926

)

(254,822

)

—

(465,748

)

Capital contributions to
    subsidiaries

—

(183,895

)

—

183,895

—

Net cash used in investing
    activities

—

(100,428

)

(135,117

)

183,895

(51,650

)

Cash flows from financing
    activities:

Proceeds from initial public
    offering of common stock, net of transaction costs

739,193

—

—

—

739,193

Dividends paid to shareholders

—

(112,107

)

(12,920

)

—

(125,027

)

Proceeds from exercise of stock
    options

—

11,964

—

—

11,964

Contributions from shareholders

—

—


—


Capital contribution from Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC

—

—

94,882

(94,882

)

—

Capital contribution from Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.

—

—

89,013

(89,013

)

—

Repayments on 11% mortgage notes

—

(6,360

)

—

—

(6,360

)

Repayments on secured mall facility

—

—

(120,000

)

—

(120,000

)

Repayments on senior secured credit
    facility-term A and B

—

(294,583

)

—

—

(294,583

)

Proceeds from senior secured credit
    facility-term B

—

665,000

—

—

665,000

Proceeds from Venetian Macao
    Limited revolver

—

—

10,000

—

10,000

Repayments on Venetian Macao
    Limited revolver

—

—

(10,000

)

—

(10,000

)

Proceeds from Venetian Intermediate
    credit facility

—

—

10,000

—

10,000

Repayments on FF&E credit
    facility

—

(2,400

)

—

—

(2,400

)

Repayments on Interface Nevada note
    payable

—

—

(127,512

)

—

(127,512

)

Proceeds from The Sands Expo Center
    mortgage loan

—

—

100,000

—

100,000

Repayments on The Sands Expo Center
    mortgage loan

—

—

(711

)

—

(711

)

Payments of deferred financing costs

—

(22,396

)

(7,202

)

—

(29,598

)

Net change in intercompany accounts

5,219

(9,187

)

3,968

—

—

Net cash provided by financing
    activities

744,412

229,931

29,938

(183,895

)

820,386

Increase in cash and cash
    equivalents

744,927

285,735

111,443

—

1,142,105

Cash and cash equivalents at
    beginning of year

—

102,603

50,190

—

152,793

Cash and cash equivalents at end of
    year

$

744,927

$

388,338

$

161,633

$

—

$

1,294,898



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 18 —
    Selected Quarterly Financial Results (Unaudited)

Quarter

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Total

(In thousands, except per share data)


Net revenues

$

530,364

$

517,007

$

553,228

$

636,260

$

2,236,859

Operating income

148,880

125,415

133,478

166,324

574,097

Net income

121,783

109,329

97,251

113,640

442,003

Basic earnings per share

0.34

0.31

0.27

0.32

1.25

Diluted earnings per share

0.34

0.31

0.27

0.32

1.24


Net revenues

$

403,794

$

398,821

$

437,622

$

500,675

$

1,740,912

Operating income

125,336

114,143

108,484

141,488

489,451

Net income

7,112

86,429

80,096

110,049

283,686

Basic earnings per share

0.02

0.24

0.23

0.31

0.80

Diluted earnings per share

0.02

0.24

0.23

0.31

0.80

Because earnings per share amounts are calculated using the
    weighted average number of common and dilutive common equivalent
    shares outstanding during each quarter, the sum of the per share
    amounts for the four quarters may not equal the total earnings
    per share amounts for the respective year.



Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial
    Statement Schedule

To the Board of Directors of Las Vegas Sands Corp.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements, of
    management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal
    control over financial reporting and of the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting referred to in our
    report dated February 27, 2007 appearing in this Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

also included an audit of the financial statement schedule
    listed in Item 15 (a)(2) of this

Form 10-K.

In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents
    fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
    therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
    financial statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Las Vegas, Nevada

February 27, 2007



SCHEDULE II —
    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

For the Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Provision

Balance at

for

Write-offs,

Balance

Beginning

Doubtful

net of

at End

Description

of Year

Accounts

Recoveries

of Year

(In thousands)

Allowance for doubtful accounts:


$

20,861

7,959

(8,511

)

$

20,309


$

20,309

9,358

(187

)

$

29,480


$

29,480

18,067

(12,071

)

$

35,476

The allowance for doubtful accounts schedule for prior years has
    been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
    Specifically, $9.3 million, $14.2 million and
    $19.5 million as of December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005,
    respectively, of casino discounts previously included in the
    allowance have been excluded and have been directly offset
    against gross casino accounts receivable. This had no effect on
    amounts previously reported in the Company’s balance
    sheets, statements of operations or statements of cash flows.

Balance at

Balance

Beginning

at End

Description

of Year

Additions

Deductions

of Year

Deferred income tax asset
    valuation allowance:


$

—

6,175

—

$

6,175


$

6,175

11,211

—

$

17,386


$

17,386

6,196

—

$

23,582



ITEM 9. —

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A. —

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that
    information required to be disclosed in the reports that the
    Company files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the
    time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and
    that such information is accumulated and communicated to our
    management, including our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow for timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company’s
    Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer have
    evaluated the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Rules 13a-15(e)

and

15d-15(e))

of the Company as of December 31, 2006 and have concluded
    that they are effective to provide reasonable assurance that the
    desired control objectives were achieved.

It should be noted that any system of controls, however well
    designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not
    absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.
    In addition, the design of any control system is based in part
    upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.
    Because of these and other inherent limitations of control
    systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed
    in achieving its stated goals under all potential future
    conditions, regardless of how remote.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in the Company’s internal control
    over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter
    covered by this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting.

Management’s
    Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting

The Company’s management is responsible for establishing
    and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
    reporting, as defined in

Rules 13a-15(f)

and

15d-15(f)

of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s internal
    control over financial reporting is designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles. The Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:

(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
    reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
    transactions and dispositions of the Company’s assets;

(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
    recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles and that the Company’s receipts and expenditures
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of its
    management and directors; and

(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
    timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
    of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect
    on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the
    Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006. In making this assessment, the
    Company’s management used the framework set



forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission in “Internal Control-Integrated
    Framework.”

Based on this assessment, management concluded that, as of
    December 31, 2006, the Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting is effective based on this framework.

Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the
    Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2006 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report that appears
    beginning on page 71 herein, which expresses unqualified
    opinions on management’s assessment and on the
    effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2006.

ITEM 9B. —

OTHER
    INFORMATION

None.

PART III

ITEM 10. —

DIRECTORS,
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2007
    Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission on or about April 27,
    2007 (the “Proxy Statement”). We have adopted a Code
    of Business Conduct and Ethics which is posted on our website at

www.lasvegassands.com

, along with any amendments or
    waivers to the Code.

ITEM 11. —

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. —

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. —

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14. —

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement.



PART IV

ITEM 15. —

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

(a)

Documents filed as part of the Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

(1) List of Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Balance Sheets

Consolidated Statements of Operations

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and
    Comprehensive Income

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(2) List of Financial Statement Schedules

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Financial Statement Schedule

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(3) List of Exhibits

Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.1

Certificate of Amended and
    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Amended and Restated By-laws of
    Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.1

Form of Specimen Common Stock
    Certificate of Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2
    to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Indenture, dated as of
    February 10, 2005, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., each
    of the Guarantors party thereto and U.S. Bank National
    Association, Trustee (the
    “6.375% Notes Indenture”) (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 4.2 to our Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of February 15, 2005).


.3

Supplemental Indenture to the
    6.375% Notes Indenture, dated as of February 22,
    2005 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of February 23, 2005).


.4*

Letter regarding certain debt
    instruments.


.1

Amended and Restated Credit
    Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2005, among Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc. and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, the lenders listed
    therein, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners, L.P., The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc., CIT Group/Equipment
    Financing, Inc. and Commerzbank AG (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of March 10, 2005).


.2

First Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 16, 2005,
    by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Venetian Casino Resort,
    LLC, the lenders listed therein, The Bank of Nova Scotia,
    Commerzbank AG, The CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc., Wells
    Fargo Foothill, Inc. and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners, L.P.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 15, 2005).


.3

Amended and Restated Security
    Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2004, by and among Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, the Subsidiary
    Guarantors party thereof and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as
    Intercreditor Agent (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.4

First Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Security Agreement, dated as of September 30,
    2004, by and between Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC, the subsidiary guarantors as defined therein, and
    The Bank of Nova Scotia, as intercreditor agent, for and on
    behalf of each bank secured party as defined therein,
    U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, and the
    intercreditor agent (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.64 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.5

Supplement to Security Agreement,
    dated as of September 30, 2004, among the debtors as
    defined in the Amended and Restated Security Agreement, dated as
    of August 20, 2004, in favor of The Bank of Nova Scotia, as
    intercreditor agent for each of the secured parties as defined
    in the Amended and Restated Security Agreement (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.67 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.6

Second Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Security Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2005,
    by and between Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort,
    LLC, the subsidiary guarantors as defined therein, and The Bank
    of Nova Scotia, as intercreditor agent, for and on behalf of
    each bank secured party as defined therein, U.S. Bank
    National Association, as trustee, and the intercreditor agent
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.68 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.7

Amended and Restated Deed of
    Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Leases,
    Security Agreement and Fixture Filing, dated as of
    February 22, 2005, made by Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc., jointly and severally as trustor, to
    First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia (as administrative agent), as
    beneficiary (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.8

Amended and Restated Subsidiary
    Guaranty, dated as of February 22, 2005, by the Subsidiary
    Guarantors party thereto for the benefit of The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.9

Amended and Restated Environmental
    Indemnity Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2005, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, and
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC, to and for the benefit of The Bank of
    Nova Scotia, as Administrative Agent for itself and for the
    other lenders under the Bank Agreement (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.10

Indemnity Agreement, dated as of
    August 25, 2000, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.,
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall Subsidiary,
    LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall Construction, LLC, Grand Canal Shops
    Mall, LLC, Interface Group Holding Company, and American
    Insurance Companies (of which American Home Assurance Company is
    a member company) (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.8 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002).


.11

Energy Services Agreement, dated
    as of November 14, 1997, by and between Atlantic Pacific
    Las Vegas, LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.3 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)).


.12

Energy Services Agreement
    Amendment No. 1, dated as of July 1, 1999, by and
    between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.8 to
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 1999).


.13

Energy Services Agreement, dated
    as of November 14, 1997, by and between Atlantic-Pacific
    Las Vegas, LLC and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.8 to Amendment No. 1 of the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.14

Energy Services Agreement
    Amendment No. 1, dated as of July 1, 1999, by and
    between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.15

Ground Lease, dated
    November 14, 1997, between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and
    Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.10 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Registration
    Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)).


.16

Amended and Restated Services
    Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997, by and among Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group
    Holding Company, Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Lido Casino
    Resort MM, Inc., Grand Canal Shops Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and
    certain subsidiaries of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC named
    therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to
    Amendment No. 1 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)).


.17

Construction Agency Agreement,
    dated as of November 14, 1997, by and between Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC and Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas, LLC
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.21 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)).


.18

Sands Resort Hotel and Casino
    Agreement, dated as of February 18, 1997, by and between
    Clark County and Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.27 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)).


.19

Addendum to Sands Resort
    Hotel & Casino Agreement, dated as of
    September 16, 1997, by and between Clark County and Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.20 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.20

Improvement Phasing Agreement by
    and between Clark County and Lido Casino Resort, LLC
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.21 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.21

Amended and Restated Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc. 1997 Fixed Stock Option Plan (the “1997 Stock
    Option Plan”) (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.10 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002).


.22

First Amendment to the 1997 Stock
    Option Plan, dated June 4, 2002 (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.11 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002).


.23

Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    January 2, 2002, by Sheldon G. Adelson with respect to the
    1997 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.5 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2002).


.24

Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    July 15, 2004, by Las Vegas Sands, Inc. with respect to the
    1997 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.25 to the Company’s Registration Statement
    on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.25

Assignment and Assumption
    Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2004. by and among Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc., Las Vegas Sands Corp. and Sheldon G. Adelson
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.27 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of March 31, 2005).


.26

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    November 18, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and William P. Weidner (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.27 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.27

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    November 18, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and Bradley H. Stone (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.30 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.28

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    November 18, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and Robert G. Goldstein (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.33 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.29

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    November 18, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and Sheldon G. Adelson (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.36 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.30

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    December 9, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and Bradley K. Serwin (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.66 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of March 31, 2005).


.31

Catastrophic Equity Protection
    Insurance Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2000, by and
    among American Home Assurance Company, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.15 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002).


.32

Concession Contract for Operating
    Casino Games of Chance or Games of Other Forms in the Macao
    Special Administrative Region, June 26, 2002, by and among
    the Macao Special Administrative Region and Galaxy Casino
    Company Limited (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.40 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2002).


.33

Land concession, dated as of
    December 10, 2003, issued by the Macao Special
    Administrative Region to Venetian Macau (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.39 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.34†

Subconcession Contract for
    Operating Casino Games of Chance or Games of Other Forms in the
    Macao Special Administrative Region, dated December 19,
    2002, between Galaxy Casino Company Limited, as concessionaire,
    and Venetian Macau S.A., as subconcessionaire (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.65 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 5 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 10, 2004).


.35

Purchase Agreement, dated
    April 12, 2004, by and among Grand Canal Shops Mall
    Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and
    GGP Limited Partnership (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.1 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2004).


.36

Agreement, made as of
    April 12, 2004, by and between Lido Casino Resort, LLC and
    GGP Limited Partnership (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.2 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2004).


.37

Second Amended and Restated
    Reciprocal Easement, Use and Operating Agreement, dated as of
    May 17, 2004, by and among Venetian Casino Resort, LLC,
    Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Grand Canal Shops II, LLC and
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.42 to the Company’s Registration Statement
    on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.38

First Amendment to Second Amended
    and Restated Reciprocal Easement, Use and Operating Agreement,
    dated as of July 30, 2004, by and among Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC, Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Grand Canal
    Shops II, LLC and Lido Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.43 to the Company’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.39

Registration Rights Agreement,
    dated as of December 20, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. and the stockholders named therein (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.39 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of March 31, 2005).


.40

Form of Notice of Restricted Stock
    Award under the Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.40 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

filed on March 2, 2006).


.41

Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity
    Award Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.41 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.42

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Executive
    Cash Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.42 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.43

Agreement, dated as of
    July 8, 2004, by and between Sheldon G. Adelson and Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.47 to the Company’s Registration Statement
    on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.44

Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement,
    dated as of June 18, 2004, by and between Interface
    Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.48 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.45

Venetian Hotel Service Agreement,
    dated as of June 28, 2001, by and between Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo
    and Convention Center (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.49 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.46

First Amendment to Venetian Hotel
    Service Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2004, by and
    between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Interface Group-Nevada,
    Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo and Convention Center (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.50 to the Company’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.47

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    November 18, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and Scott D. Henry (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.51 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 4 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.48

Assignment and Assumption
    Agreement, dated as of November 8, 2004, by and among Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group
    Holding Company, Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Interface
    Operations LLC, Lido Casino Resort MM, Inc., Grand Canal Shops
    Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC named therein (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.52 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.49

Construction Loan Agreement, dated
    September 30, 2004, by and among Phase II Mall
    Holding, LLC and Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, as
    borrowers, the lenders party thereto, The Bank of Nova Scotia,
    as the Sole Lead Arranger and the Sole Bookrunner, and Sumitomo
    Mitsui Banking Corporation, as the Syndication Agent
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Report on

Form 8-K

filed on October 20, 2004).


.50

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of
    Trust, Assignment of Rents and Leases, Security Agreement and
    Fixture Filing, dated September 30, 2004, made by
    Phase II Mall Holding, LLC and Phase II Mall
    Subsidiary, LLC jointly and severally as trustor, to First
    American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    Administrative Agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.54 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 1 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.51

Security Agreement, dated as of
    September 30, 2004, by and among Phase II Mall
    Holding, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, and each
    subsidiary from time to time party thereto, and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, in its capacity as Administrative Agent for and on
    behalf of each Secured Party (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.55 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.52

Master Disbursement Agreement,
    dated as of September 30, 2004, among Lido Casino Resort,
    LLC, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, Phase II Mall
    Subsidiary, LLC, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as the Bank Agent, The
    Bank of Nova Scotia, as the Phase II Mall Agent, Goldman
    Sachs Credit Partners L.P. as the Bank Arranger and The Bank of
    Nova Scotia, as the Disbursement Agent (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.56 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.53

First Amendment to Master
    Disbursement Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2005,
    among Lido Casino Resort, LLC, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC,
    Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as
    the Bank Agent, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as the Phase II
    Mall Agent, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and The Bank of
    Nova Scotia, as the Joint Bank Arrangers, and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as the Disbursement Agent (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.67 to the Company’s Quarterly Report
    on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.54

Amended and Restated Deed of
    Trust, Assignment of Rents and Leases, Security Agreement and
    Fixture Filing, dated as of February 22, 2005, made by Lido
    Casino Resort, LLC, as trustor, to First American
    Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the benefit of The
    Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as Administrative Agent, as
    beneficiary (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.53
    to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

(Reg.

No. 333-42147)

filed on April 1, 2005).


.55

Environmental Indemnity Agreement,
    dated as of September 30, 2004, by and among Phase II
    Mall Holding, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc., Lido Casino Resort, LLC and Venetian Casino Resort,
    LLC to and for the benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia as
    administrative agent for itself and the other agents and lenders
    under the Construction Loan Agreement (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.59 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 1 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.56

Assignment and Assumption of
    Agreement and First Amendment to Agreement, dated
    September 30, 2004, made by Lido Casino Resort, LLC, as
    assignor, to Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, as assignee, and
    to GGP Limited Partnership, as buyer (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.60 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 1 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.57

Tax Indemnification Agreement,
    dated as of December 17, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands
    Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and the stockholders named therein
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.56 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of March 31, 2005).


.58

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Deferred
    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.63 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.59

Disbursement Collateral
    Account Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2004, by
    and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC,
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as custodian
    and in its capacity as a securities intermediary, and the Bank
    of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as the intercreditor agent, for
    and on behalf of each bank intercreditor agent as defined
    therein, U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee for and
    on behalf of the mortgage note holders under the mortgage notes
    indenture as defined therein, and the intercreditor agent
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.68 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.60

First Amendment to Disbursement
    Collateral Account Agreement, dated as of February 22,
    2005, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC, Lido Casino Resort, LLC, The Bank of Nova Scotia,
    as custodian and in its capacity as a securities intermediary,
    and the Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as the
    intercreditor agent, for and on behalf of each bank
    intercreditor agent as defined therein, U.S. Bank National
    Association, as trustee for and on behalf of the mortgage note
    holders under the mortgage notes indenture as defined therein,
    and the intercreditor agent (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.69 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.61

Form of Restricted Stock Award
    Agreements under the 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.70 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 4 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.62

Form of Stock Option Agreements
    under the 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.71 to the Company’s Amendment No. 4
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.63

Aircraft Interchange Agreement,
    dated as of January 1, 2005, by and between Interface
    Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 15, 2005).


.64

Aircraft Time Share Agreement,
    dated as of January 1, 2005, by and between Interface
    Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 15, 2005).


.65

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Option under the Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.65 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-K

filed on March 2, 2006).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.66

Credit Agreement, dated as of
    May 25, 2006, by and among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian
    Macau Limited, the financial institutions listed therein as
    lenders, The Bank of Nova Scotia, Banco Nacional Ultramarino,
    S.A., Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Goldman Sachs Credit
    Partners L.P., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Citigroup Global
    Markets, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1
    to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on August 9, 2006).


.67

Disbursement Agreement, dated as
    of May 25, 2006, by and among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian
    Cotai Limited, Venetian Macau Limited and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on August 9, 2006).


.68

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    June 1, 2006, among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC and Robert Rozek (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on August 9, 2006).


.69

Amendment No. 1, dated as of
    June 20, 2006 and effective as of June 8, 2006, to
    Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, among
    Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, LLC and Scott D. Henry
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on August 9, 2006).


.70

Facility Agreement, dated as of
    August 18, 2006, among Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., Goldman
    Sachs (Singapore) Pte., DBS Bank Ltd., UOB Asia Limited,
    Oversea — Chinese Banking Corporation Limited and the
    financial institutions listed therein as Original Lenders
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 9, 2006).


.71

Purchase Agreement, dated as of
    August 18, 2006, among Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., the
    Purchasers named therein, Las Vegas Sands Corp., Goldman Sachs
    (Singapore) Pte. and DBS Bank Ltd. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 9, 2006).


.72

Development Agreement, dated
    August 23, 2006, between the Singapore Tourism Board and
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 9, 2006).


.73

Third Amended and Restated
    Reciprocal Easement, Use and Operating Agreement, dated as of
    July 26, 2006, by and among Venetian Casino Resort, LLC,
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC,
    Grand Canal Shops II, LLC, and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 9, 2006).


.74*

FF&E Facility Credit
    Agreement, dated as of December 14, 2006, among Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC, Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Lido Casino Resort,
    LLC, as borrowers, the Financial Institutions named therein as
    Lenders and General Electric Capital Corporation, as
    Administrative Agent.


.75

Form of Restricted Stock Award
    Agreement (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to
    the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 9, 2007).


.76*

First Amendment, dated as of
    February 5, 2007, to the Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity
    Award Plan.


.77*

Amendment No. 2, dated as of
    July 1, 2006, between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC.


.78*

First Amendment to Lease, dated as
    of July 11, 2006, between Grand Canal Shops II, LLC
    and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC.


.1*

Subsidiaries of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp.


.1*

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP.


.1*

Certification of the Chief
    Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of the Chief
    Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.1*

Certification of Chief Executive
    Officer of Las Vegas Sands Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
    Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of Chief Financial
    Officer of Las Vegas Sands Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
    Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



*

Filed herewith.

†

Confidential treatment has been requested and granted with
    respect to portions of this exhibit, and such confidential
    portions have been deleted and replaced with “**” and
    filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    pursuant to Rule 406 under the Securities Act of 1933.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
    authorized.

LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

February 28, 2007

/s/

Sheldon
    G. Adelson

Sheldon G. Adelson,

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
    registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/

Sheldon
    G. Adelson

Sheldon
    G. Adelson

Chairman of the Board, Chief

Executive Officer and Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

Irwin
    Chafetz

Irwin
    Chafetz

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

Charles
    D. Forman

Charles
    D. Forman

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

Andrew
    R. Heyer

Andrew
    R. Heyer

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

Michael
    A. Leven

Michael
    A. Leven

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

James
    L. Purcell

James
    L. Purcell

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

Irwin
    A. Siegel

Irwin
    A. Siegel

Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

William
    P. Weidner

William
    P. Weidner

President, Chief Operating
    Officer

and Director

February 28, 2007

/s/

Robert
    P. Rozek

Robert
    P. Rozek

Senior Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

February 28, 2007



Index to
    Exhibits

Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.1

Certificate of Amended and
    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Amended and Restated By-laws of
    Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.1

Form of Specimen Common Stock
    Certificate of Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2
    to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Indenture, dated as of
    February 10, 2005, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., each
    of the Guarantors party thereto and U.S. Bank National
    Association, Trustee (the
    “6.375% Notes Indenture”) (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 4.2 to our Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of February 15, 2005).


.3

Supplemental Indenture to the
    6.375% Notes Indenture, dated as of February 22,
    2005 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of February 23, 2005).


.4*

Letter regarding certain debt
    instruments.


.1

Amended and Restated Credit
    Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2005, among Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc. and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, the lenders listed
    therein, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners, L.P., The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc., CIT Group/Equipment
    Financing, Inc. and Commerzbank AG (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of March 10, 2005).


.2

First Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of September 16, 2005,
    by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Venetian Casino Resort,
    LLC, the lenders listed therein, The Bank of Nova Scotia,
    Commerzbank AG, The CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc., Wells
    Fargo Foothill, Inc. and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners, L.P.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 15, 2005).


.3

Amended and Restated Security
    Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2004, by and among Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, the Subsidiary
    Guarantors party thereof and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as
    Intercreditor Agent (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.4

First Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Security Agreement, dated as of September 30,
    2004, by and between Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC, the subsidiary guarantors as defined therein, and
    The Bank of Nova Scotia, as intercreditor agent, for and on
    behalf of each bank secured party as defined therein,
    U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, and the
    intercreditor agent (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.64 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.5

Supplement to Security Agreement,
    dated as of September 30, 2004, among the debtors as
    defined in the Amended and Restated Security Agreement, dated as
    of August 20, 2004, in favor of The Bank of Nova Scotia, as
    intercreditor agent for each of the secured parties as defined
    in the Amended and Restated Security Agreement (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.67 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.6

Second Amendment to Amended and
    Restated Security Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2005,
    by and between Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort,
    LLC, the subsidiary guarantors as defined therein, and The Bank
    of Nova Scotia, as intercreditor agent, for and on behalf of
    each bank secured party as defined therein, U.S. Bank
    National Association, as trustee, and the intercreditor agent
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.68 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.7

Amended and Restated Deed of
    Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Leases,
    Security Agreement and Fixture Filing, dated as of
    February 22, 2005, made by Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc., jointly and severally as trustor, to
    First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia (as administrative agent), as
    beneficiary (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.8

Amended and Restated Subsidiary
    Guaranty, dated as of February 22, 2005, by the Subsidiary
    Guarantors party thereto for the benefit of The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.9

Amended and Restated Environmental
    Indemnity Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2005, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, and
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC, to and for the benefit of The Bank of
    Nova Scotia, as Administrative Agent for itself and for the
    other lenders under the Bank Agreement (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.10

Indemnity Agreement, dated as of
    August 25, 2000, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.,
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall Subsidiary,
    LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall Construction, LLC, Grand Canal Shops
    Mall, LLC, Interface Group Holding Company, and American
    Insurance Companies (of which American Home Assurance Company is
    a member company) (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.8 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002).


.11

Energy Services Agreement, dated
    as of November 14, 1997, by and between Atlantic Pacific
    Las Vegas, LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.3 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)).


.12

Energy Services Agreement
    Amendment No. 1, dated as of July 1, 1999, by and
    between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.8 to
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 1999).


.13

Energy Services Agreement, dated
    as of November 14, 1997, by and between Atlantic-Pacific
    Las Vegas, LLC and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.8 to Amendment No. 1 of the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.14

Energy Services Agreement
    Amendment No. 1, dated as of July 1, 1999, by and
    between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.15

Ground Lease, dated
    November 14, 1997, between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and
    Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.10 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Registration
    Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)).


.16

Amended and Restated Services
    Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997, by and among Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group
    Holding Company, Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Lido Casino
    Resort MM, Inc., Grand Canal Shops Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and
    certain subsidiaries of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC named
    therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to
    Amendment No. 1 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)).


.17

Construction Agency Agreement,
    dated as of November 14, 1997, by and between Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC and Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas, LLC
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.21 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)).


.18

Sands Resort Hotel and Casino
    Agreement, dated as of February 18, 1997, by and between
    Clark County and Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.27 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.19

Addendum to Sands Resort
    Hotel & Casino Agreement, dated as of
    September 16, 1997, by and between Clark County and Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.20 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.20

Improvement Phasing Agreement by
    and between Clark County and Lido Casino Resort, LLC
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.21 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.21

Amended and Restated Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc. 1997 Fixed Stock Option Plan (the “1997 Stock
    Option Plan”) (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.10 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002).


.22

First Amendment to the 1997 Stock
    Option Plan, dated June 4, 2002 (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.11 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002).


.23

Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    January 2, 2002, by Sheldon G. Adelson with respect to the
    1997 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.5 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2002).


.24

Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    July 15, 2004, by Las Vegas Sands, Inc. with respect to the
    1997 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.25 to the Company’s Registration Statement
    on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.25

Assignment and Assumption
    Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2004. by and among Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc., Las Vegas Sands Corp. and Sheldon G. Adelson
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.27 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of March 31, 2005).


.26

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    November 18, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and William P. Weidner (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.27 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.27

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    November 18, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and Bradley H. Stone (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.30 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.28

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    November 18, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and Robert G. Goldstein (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.33 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.29

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    November 18, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and Sheldon G. Adelson (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.36 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.30

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    December 9, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and Bradley K. Serwin (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.66 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of March 31, 2005).


.31

Catastrophic Equity Protection
    Insurance Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2000, by and
    among American Home Assurance Company, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.15 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002).


.32

Concession Contract for Operating
    Casino Games of Chance or Games of Other Forms in the Macao
    Special Administrative Region, June 26, 2002, by and among
    the Macao Special Administrative Region and Galaxy Casino
    Company Limited (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.40 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2002).


.33

Land concession, dated as of
    December 10, 2003, issued by the Macao Special
    Administrative Region to Venetian Macau (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.39 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.34†

Subconcession Contract for
    Operating Casino Games of Chance or Games of Other Forms in the
    Macao Special Administrative Region, dated December 19,
    2002, between Galaxy Casino Company Limited, as concessionaire,
    and Venetian Macau S.A., as subconcessionaire (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.65 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 5 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 10, 2004).


.35

Purchase Agreement, dated
    April 12, 2004, by and among Grand Canal Shops Mall
    Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and
    GGP Limited Partnership (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.1 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2004).


.36

Agreement, made as of
    April 12, 2004, by and between Lido Casino Resort, LLC and
    GGP Limited Partnership (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.2 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2004).


.37

Second Amended and Restated
    Reciprocal Easement, Use and Operating Agreement, dated as of
    May 17, 2004, by and among Venetian Casino Resort, LLC,
    Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Grand Canal Shops II, LLC and
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.42 to the Company’s Registration Statement
    on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.38

First Amendment to Second Amended
    and Restated Reciprocal Easement, Use and Operating Agreement,
    dated as of July 30, 2004, by and among Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC, Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Grand Canal
    Shops II, LLC and Lido Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.43 to the Company’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.39

Registration Rights Agreement,
    dated as of December 20, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. and the stockholders named therein (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.39 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of March 31, 2005).


.40

Form of Notice of Restricted Stock
    Award under the Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.40 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

filed on March 2, 2006).


.41

Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity
    Award Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.41 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.42

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Executive
    Cash Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.42 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.43

Agreement, dated as of
    July 8, 2004, by and between Sheldon G. Adelson and Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.47 to the Company’s Registration Statement
    on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.44

Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement,
    dated as of June 18, 2004, by and between Interface
    Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.48 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.45

Venetian Hotel Service Agreement,
    dated as of June 28, 2001, by and between Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo
    and Convention Center (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.49 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.46

First Amendment to Venetian Hotel
    Service Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2004, by and
    between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Interface Group-Nevada,
    Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo and Convention Center (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.50 to the Company’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.47

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    November 18, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. and Scott D. Henry (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.51 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 4 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.48

Assignment and Assumption
    Agreement, dated as of November 8, 2004, by and among Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group
    Holding Company, Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Interface
    Operations LLC, Lido Casino Resort MM, Inc., Grand Canal Shops
    Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC named therein (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.52 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.49

Construction Loan Agreement, dated
    September 30, 2004, by and among Phase II Mall
    Holding, LLC and Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, as
    borrowers, the lenders party thereto, The Bank of Nova Scotia,
    as the Sole Lead Arranger and the Sole Bookrunner, and Sumitomo
    Mitsui Banking Corporation, as the Syndication Agent
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Report on

Form 8-K

filed on October 20, 2004).


.50

Deed Of Trust, Leasehold Deed of
    Trust, Assignment of Rents and Leases, Security Agreement and
    Fixture Filing, dated September 30, 2004, made by
    Phase II Mall Holding, LLC and Phase II Mall
    Subsidiary, LLC jointly and severally as trustor, to First
    American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    Administrative Agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.54 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 1 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.51

Security Agreement, dated as of
    September 30, 2004, by and among Phase II Mall
    Holding, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, and each
    subsidiary from time to time party thereto, and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, in its capacity as Administrative Agent for and on
    behalf of each Secured Party (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.55 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.52

Master Disbursement Agreement,
    dated as of September 30, 2004, among Lido Casino Resort,
    LLC, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, Phase II Mall
    Subsidiary, LLC, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as the Bank Agent, The
    Bank of Nova Scotia, as the Phase II Mall Agent, Goldman
    Sachs Credit Partners L.P. as the Bank Arranger and The Bank of
    Nova Scotia, as the Disbursement Agent (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.56 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.53

First Amendment to Master
    Disbursement Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2005,
    among Lido Casino Resort, LLC, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC,
    Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as
    the Bank Agent, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as the Phase II
    Mall Agent, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and The Bank of
    Nova Scotia, as the Joint Bank Arrangers, and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as the Disbursement Agent (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.67 to the Company’s Quarterly Report
    on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.54

Amended and Restated Deed of
    Trust, Assignment of Rents and Leases, Security Agreement and
    Fixture Filing, dated as of February 22, 2005, made by Lido
    Casino Resort, LLC, as trustor, to First American
    Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the benefit of The
    Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as Administrative Agent, as
    beneficiary (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.53
    to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

(Reg.

No. 333-42147)

filed on April 1, 2005).


.55

Environmental Indemnity Agreement,
    dated as of September 30, 2004, by and among Phase II
    Mall Holding, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc., Lido Casino Resort, LLC and Venetian Casino Resort,
    LLC to and for the benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia as
    administrative agent for itself and the other agents and lenders
    under the Construction Loan Agreement (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.59 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 1 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.56

Assignment and Assumption of
    Agreement and First Amendment to Agreement, dated
    September 30, 2004, made by Lido Casino Resort, LLC, as
    assignor, to Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, as assignee, and
    to GGP Limited Partnership, as buyer (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.60 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 1 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.57

Tax Indemnification Agreement,
    dated as of December 17, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands
    Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and the stockholders named therein
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.56 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of March 31, 2005).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.58

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Deferred
    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.63 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.59

Disbursement Collateral
    Account Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2004, by
    and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC,
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as custodian
    and in its capacity as a securities intermediary, and the Bank
    of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as the intercreditor agent, for
    and on behalf of each bank intercreditor agent as defined
    therein, U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee for and
    on behalf of the mortgage note holders under the mortgage notes
    indenture as defined therein, and the intercreditor agent
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.68 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.60

First Amendment to Disbursement
    Collateral Account Agreement, dated as of February 22,
    2005, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC, Lido Casino Resort, LLC, The Bank of Nova Scotia,
    as custodian and in its capacity as a securities intermediary,
    and the Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as the
    intercreditor agent, for and on behalf of each bank
    intercreditor agent as defined therein, U.S. Bank National
    Association, as trustee for and on behalf of the mortgage note
    holders under the mortgage notes indenture as defined therein,
    and the intercreditor agent (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.69 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on May 16, 2005).


.61

Form of Restricted Stock Award
    Agreements under the 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.70 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 4 Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.62

Form of Stock Option Agreements
    under the 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.71 to the Company’s Amendment No. 4
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.63

Aircraft Interchange Agreement,
    dated as of January 1, 2005, by and between Interface
    Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 15, 2005).


.64

Aircraft Time Share Agreement,
    dated as of January 1, 2005, by and between Interface
    Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 15, 2005).


.65

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
    Option under the Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.65 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-K

filed on March 2, 2006).


.66

Credit Agreement, dated as of
    May 25, 2006, by and among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian
    Macau Limited, the financial institutions listed therein as
    lenders, The Bank of Nova Scotia, Banco Nacional Ultramarino,
    S.A., Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Goldman Sachs Credit
    Partners L.P., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Citigroup Global
    Markets, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1
    to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on August 9, 2006).


.67

Disbursement Agreement, dated as
    of May 25, 2006, by and among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian
    Cotai Limited, Venetian Macau Limited and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on August 9, 2006).


.68

Employment Agreement, dated as of
    June 1, 2006, among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC and Robert Rozek (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on August 9, 2006).


.69

Amendment No. 1, dated as of
    June 20, 2006 and effective as of June 8, 2006, to
    Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, among
    Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, LLC and Scott D. Henry
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on August 9, 2006).


.70

Facility Agreement, dated as of
    August 18, 2006, among Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., Goldman
    Sachs (Singapore) Pte., DBS Bank Ltd., UOB Asia Limited,
    Oversea — Chinese Banking Corporation Limited and the
    financial institutions listed therein as Original Lenders
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 9, 2006).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.71

Purchase Agreement, dated as of
    August 18, 2006, among Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., the
    Purchasers named therein, Las Vegas Sands Corp., Goldman Sachs
    (Singapore) Pte. and DBS Bank Ltd. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 9, 2006).


.72

Development Agreement, dated
    August 23, 2006, between the Singapore Tourism Board and
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 9, 2006).


.73

Third Amended and Restated
    Reciprocal Easement, Use and Operating Agreement, dated as of
    July 26, 2006, by and among Venetian Casino Resort, LLC,
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC,
    Grand Canal Shops II, LLC, and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

filed on November 9, 2006).


.74*

FF&E Facility Credit
    Agreement, dated as of December 14, 2006, among Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC, Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Lido Casino Resort,
    LLC, as borrowers, the Financial Institutions named therein as
    Lenders and General Electric Capital Corporation, as
    Administrative Agent.


.75

Form of Restricted Stock Award
    Agreement (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to
    the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 9, 2007).


.76*

First Amendment, dated as of
    February 5, 2007, to the Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity
    Award Plan.


.77*

Amendment No. 2, dated as of
    July 1, 2006, between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC.


.78*

First Amendment to Lease, dated as
    of July 11, 2006, between Grand Canal Shops II, LLC
    and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC.


.1*

Subsidiaries of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp.


.1*

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP.


.1*

Certification of the Chief
    Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of the Chief
    Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.1*

Certification of Chief Executive
    Officer of Las Vegas Sands Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
    Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of Chief Financial
    Officer of Las Vegas Sands Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
    Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Filed herewith.

†

Confidential treatment has been requested and granted with
    respect to portions of this exhibit, and such confidential
    portions have been deleted and replaced with “**” and
    filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    pursuant to Rule 406 under the Securities Act of 1933.

140