10-K


p71940e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

10-K


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form

10-K

Commission File Number

001-32373

LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

(Exact name of registration as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including Area Code:

(702) 414-1000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock ($0.001 par value)

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Exchange
Act.     Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports); and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation

S-K

(§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form

10-K

or any
amendment to this
Form

10-K.

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer” in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
filer

þ

Accelerated
filer

o

Non-accelerated
filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Exchange
Act).     Yes

o

No

þ

As of the June 30, 2005, the aggregate market value of the
registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was $1,139,311,388 based on the closing sale price as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

The Company had 354,303,160 shares of common stock
outstanding as of February 24, 2006.

Las Vegas Sands Corp.


ii


PART I

ITEM 1. —

BUSINESS

Overview

Las Vegas Sands Corp. and its subsidiaries (“we” or
the “Company”) own and operate The Venetian Resort
Hotel Casino (also referred to as “The Venetian”) and
The Sands Expo and Convention Center (also referred to as
“The Sands Expo Center”) in Las Vegas, Nevada, and The
Sands Macao Casino (also referred to as “The Sands
Macao”) in Macao, China. We are also in the process of
developing additional casino resorts and properties in Las Vegas
and Macao, including The Palazzo Resort Hotel Casino (also
referred to as The Palazzo), which will be adjacent to and
connected with The Venetian, The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel
Casino and other casino resort properties on the Cotai
Strip™ in Macao. We are seeking gaming licenses to develop
gaming properties in Singapore, Pennsylvania and the United
Kingdom. We also are exploring other gaming entertainment
opportunities in Asia, Europe and the United States.

Our Las Vegas Properties

The Venetian is one of the largest and most luxurious casino
resorts in the world. It is a Renaissance Venice-themed casino
resort situated at one of the premier locations on the Las Vegas
Strip, across from the Mirage and the Treasure Island Hotel and
Casino and next to the Wynn Las Vegas Resort. Since its opening,
The Venetian has been a “must-see” destination that
provides visitors with first-class accommodations, gaming,
entertainment, dining and meeting facilities, and shopping at
the first all-suites hotel on the Las Vegas Strip. The
Venetian had an average occupancy rate of 97.3% and an average
daily room rate of $225 in 2005.

The Venetian opened in May 1999 with 3,014 suites. The Venezia
tower, a 1,013 hotel suite expansion of The Venetian, opened on
June 26, 2003. The Venetian now includes a total of 4,027
suites and a gaming facility of approximately
116,000 square feet consisting of approximately 1,728 slot
machines and 140 table games. The Venetian also includes
The Congress Center, a meeting and conference facility that was
recently expanded to approximately 1.1 million square feet.
In addition, The Grand Canal Shops mall is located within The
Venetian and offers approximately 440,000 square feet of
shopping, dining and entertainment space directly accessible
from the Las Vegas Strip. The Grand Canal Shops mall will also
connect directly to the main shopping and dining complex of The
Palazzo, which will in turn connect through a walkover bridge to
the Wynn Las Vegas Resort. In May 2004, we sold The Grand Canal
Shops mall and leased certain restaurant and other retail assets
of The Venetian to a subsidiary of General Growth Properties
(“GGP”) for approximately $766.0 million in gross
proceeds. We believe that The Grand Canal Shops mall generates
significant foot traffic through our facilities as a result of
its premium dining, retail offerings, other attractions and
amenities, such as its Venice-themed streetscapes, costumed
street performers and gondola rides along the canal with singing
gondoliers. The Grand Canal Shops mall includes 14 restaurants,
15 food court outlets, seven specialty food shops and
approximately 80 high- and mid-end retail stores.

The Venetian is directly connected to The Sands Expo Center, an
approximately 1.15 million square foot convention and trade
show facility. Our combined Las Vegas facilities, including The
Congress Center and The Sands Expo Center, have approximately
2.25 million gross square feet of meeting and convention
space. Our ability to attract and accommodate trade show and
convention business has been a key contributor to our success.
Management believes that The Venetian and The Sands Expo Center
together comprise one of the largest hotel and meeting complexes
in the world. This complex benefits from its prime location in
Las Vegas, which is one of the most visited convention and trade
show destinations in the United States. During 2005,
approximately 6.2 million visitors attended conventions in
Las Vegas, with approximately 660,000 of these visitors
attending events at The Sands Expo Center. The demand for hotel
rooms generated by visitors at our convention and trade show
facilities contributed to our 97.3% average occupancy rate
during 2005, including a mid-week average occupancy rate of
96.1%, which compare favorably to the Las Vegas average overall
occupancy rate of 89.2% and mid-week average occupancy rate of
86.6% during the same period.



In August 2004, we began construction of The Palazzo. Like The
Venetian, The Palazzo will be situated at one of the premier
locations on the Las Vegas Strip, on approximately 14 acres
of land that we own adjacent to The Venetian and The Sands Expo
Center, and next to the Wynn Las Vegas Resort. The Palazzo will
be a world-class luxury hotel, casino and resort and will have a
design and ambience reminiscent of high-end locales such as
Beverly Hills and Bel Air. The Palazzo will consist of an
all-suites 50-floor luxury hotel tower with approximately 3,025
suites; a gaming facility of approximately 105,000 square
feet, with approximately 1,700 slot machines and 100 table
games; and an enclosed shopping, dining and entertainment
complex of approximately 450,000 square feet, which we
refer to as the Phase II mall and which is expected to
include approximately 80 high- and mid-end retailers. We have
contracted to sell the Phase II mall to GGP at its
completion. The Palazzo is scheduled to open during the summer
of 2007.

Our Macao Properties

In addition to our Las Vegas operations, one of our
subsidiaries, Venetian Macau S.A. (“VML”), holds a
government-approved subconcession to operate casinos in Macao.
Macao is a special administrative region of China and the only
location in China that permits casino gaming. China currently
has a population of approximately 1.31 billion and
approximately 1.0 billion people live within a three-hour
flight of Macao. One of the world’s largest gaming markets,
with approximately $5.6 billion in gaming revenue in 2005,
Macao is located in a highly-populated region of the world that
we believe is currently underserved by its regional gaming
facilities. The government of Macao has expressed its goal of
transforming Macao into the tourism destination of choice in
Asia. The Chinese government has recently removed certain
internal travel restrictions, allowing mainland Chinese from
certain urban centers and economically developed regions to
visit Macao without joining a tour group, and has also recently
increased the amount of renminbi that Chinese citizens are
permitted to bring into Macao. We expect tourism in Macao to
continue to grow as the Chinese government continues to
implement its policy of liberalizing historical restrictions on
travel and currency movements. In 2005, there were approximately
18.7 million visitors to Macao according to the Macao
Statistics and Census Service. We expect that these high
visitation levels will drive the growth of Macao tourism and its
casino market in the future.

On May 18, 2004, we opened The Sands Macao. The Sands Macao
is situated at one of the premier locations in Macao’s
downtown gaming district, approximately 0.3 miles from the
Macao-Hong Kong Ferry terminal, where approximately
6.5 million visitors entered Macao in 2005. Since its
opening, The Sands Macao has been a “must-see” local
destination that provides visitors with a unique Las Vegas-style
experience including first-class gaming, entertainment and
dining facilities.

The Sands Macao initially consisted of approximately
145,000 gross square feet of gaming facilities. We have
completed several expansions of The Sands Macao since its
opening. The Sands Macao now offers approximately
172,000 square feet of gaming facilities, with
approximately 440 table games and approximately 930 slot
machines or similar electronic gaming devices, several
restaurants, VIP facilities (which we call The Paiza Club, and
which include private gaming rooms and 51 luxury suites ranging
from approximately 800 to 17,000 square feet for the
exclusive use of casino patrons), a theatre and other high-end
amenities. We are currently expanding The Sands Macao gaming
facilities so that The Sands Macao will have approximately 700
tables and 1,200 slot machines. The expansion is expected to
open in August 2006.

We began construction of The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel Casino,
which we also refer to as The Venetian Macao, in November 2004
on the Cotai Strip, an area of reclaimed land between the
islands of Taipa and Coloane in Macao. The Cotai Strip is
approximately 5 to 10 minutes by car from downtown Macao. The
Venetian Macao will be a world-class casino complex with a
Renaissance Venetian-style theme similar to that of The Venetian
in Las Vegas. The Venetian Macao is expected to initially have
approximately 4,000 slot machines and 750 table games. The
Venetian Macao will also feature a 39-floor luxury hotel tower
of approximately 3,000 suites, an enclosed retail, dining and
entertainment complex of approximately 870,000 square feet,
which is expected to include high-end and mid-level retailers
and multiple signature restaurants, and a convention center and
meeting room complex of approximately 1.2 million square
feet. The Venetian Macao is scheduled to open in mid-2007.



In connection with the development of The Venetian Macao, we are
sponsoring a master plan for the development of multiple
properties on the Cotai Strip designed to meet the demand
generated by the rapidly-growing Asian gaming market and attract
destination and convention visitors to Macao for multi-day
visits. We have submitted development plans to the Macao
government for six casino-resort developments in addition to The
Venetian Macao on an area of approximately 200 acres on the
Cotai Strip. The developments are expected to include hotels,
exhibition and conference facilities, casinos, showrooms,
shopping malls, spas, world-class restaurants and entertainment
facilities and other attractions, as well as common public
areas. We plan to own and operate all of the casinos in these
developments under our Macao gaming subconcession. The Venetian
Macao will serve as the anchor property at the corner of entry
to the Cotai Strip.

Other Development Projects

Our operations in Las Vegas and Macao provide us with a platform
for further growth of our domestic and international gaming
operations.

Following the Singapore government’s adoption of gaming
legislation in 2005, we submitted a proposal to the Singapore
government for a license to develop a large integrated resort,
including a casino, in Singapore. There are currently three
competing proposals for this resort/casino license. The
Singapore government is expected to award this license in
mid-2006.

We have entered into a non-binding agreement with the Zhuhai
Municipal People’s Government of the People’s Republic
of China to work with it to create a master plan for, and
develop, a leisure and convention destination resort on Hengqin
Island, located approximately one mile from the Cotai Strip. We
are actively preparing preliminary design concepts for
presentation to the government. This development is subject to a
number of conditions, including receiving further governmental
approvals.

On December 3, 2004, following the enactment of legislation
legalizing slot machine gaming in Pennsylvania, we entered into
a contribution agreement with Bethworks Now, LLC, the owner of
an approximately 124 acre site located in Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania. We have submitted a proposal to obtain one of two
“at large” gaming licenses available in Pennsylvania.
There are several competing proposals for these licenses. If a
slot machine license under the new legislation is granted for
the site, we intend to jointly own and develop the property for
use as a casino complex including a hotel with meeting rooms and
retail, restaurant, movie theater, office and other commercial
spaces. The Bethlehem development is subject to a number of
conditions, including obtaining the gaming license.

We have also entered into agreements to develop and lease gaming
and entertainment facilities with two prominent football clubs
in the United Kingdom and are in discussions with several others
to build entertainment and gaming facilities in major cities in
the United Kingdom. There are several competing proposals for
the single “regional” casino license currently
authorized by statute. Our agreements to develop and lease
gaming and entertainment facilities are subject to a number of
conditions, including passage of legislation to expand the
number of authorized regional casinos and obtaining a gaming
license.

We are currently exploring the possibility of operating casino
resorts in additional Asian jurisdictions, the United States and
Europe.

Business Strategy and Competitive Strengths

Our primary business objective is to become a leading worldwide
operator of premium destination resorts with significant casino
components and uniquely branded gaming entertainment properties
in order to drive superior returns on invested capital, increase
asset value and maximize value for our stockholders. We have
developed distinct but inter-related strategies for our Las
Vegas operations and our global expansion plan.



Las Vegas Strategy

Our Las Vegas strategy is to create a unique, world-class,
“must-see” destination resort complex that caters to
premium clientele and effectively leverages our
convention-driven business model. To implement this strategy, we
intend to:

Global Expansion Strategy

Our global expansion strategy is to aggressively pursue
development opportunities in gaming markets worldwide with
attractive growth prospects. To implement this strategy, we
intend to:



•

actively develop and sell non-core real estate assets, including
    vacation suites and retail malls, reducing our net invested
    capital and enhancing returns on our remaining core assets;

•

aggressively pursue development opportunities in other gaming
    markets with attractive growth prospects, including Singapore
    and the United Kingdom; and

•

extend our premium “Sands,” “Venetian,”
    “Palazzo” and “Paiza” brands worldwide and
    cross-market our Las Vegas offerings as international
    opportunities arise.

Our Company

We were incorporated in Nevada in August 2004. On
December 20, 2004, we issued 27,380,953 shares of our
common stock in our initial public offering at an offering price
of $29.00 per share, resulting in net proceeds of
approximately $738.7 million to us. Our shares of common
stock are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the
“NYSE”) under the symbol “LVS.” Immediately
prior to the consummation of our initial public offering, we
acquired 100% of the capital stock of Las Vegas Sands, Inc., a
Nevada corporation and the direct or indirect owner and operator
of The Venetian, The Sands Expo Center and The Sands Macao, by
merging Las Vegas Sands, Inc. with and into our wholly owned
subsidiary, with Las Vegas Sands, Inc. as the surviving
subsidiary. Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was incorporated in Nevada in
April 1988. In July 2005, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was
converted into a limited liability company and changed its name
to Las Vegas Sands, LLC.

Our principal executive office is located at 3355 Las Vegas
Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109. Our telephone number
at that address is (702) 414-1000. Our website address is
www.

lasvegassands.com.

The information on our website is
not part of this Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Our Annual Reports on
Form

10-K,

Quarterly Reports on
Form

10-Q,

Current
Reports on
Form

8-K,

proxy
statements and other Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) filings, and any amendments to those reports
that we file with or furnish to the SEC under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our
website at as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

This Annual Report on
Form

10-K

contains
certain forward-looking statements. See
“Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Special Note Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements.”

The Venetian

The Venetian opened in May 1999. The Venetian currently has
4,027 single and multiple bedroom suites situated in a 3,014
suite 35-story, three-winged tower rising above the casino and
the 1,013 suite 12-story Venezia tower situated above a parking
garage. The hotel lobby features a domed ceiling decorated with
Venetian-themed, fresco-style paintings, a main passageway
formed by a barrel-vaulted ceiling carried on ornamental
columns, and a replica of the unique three-dimensional-style
marble floors found in Venetian palaces.

A typical hotel suite approximates 655 to 735 square feet,
consisting of a raised sleeping area and bathroom and a sunken
living/working area. The suite’s bi-level configuration
creates a multi-function living space in which guests can sleep,
work and entertain. Many of our suites are of a larger size for
use by high-end gaming customers and VIPs associated with group
and trade show business. During 2005, the average daily room
rates at The Venetian were approximately $225 and the average
daily occupancy was approximately 97.3%.

The Venezia tower expansion includes 122 concierge level suites,
which have been popular with customers and generate above
average margins. Customers who stay on the concierge levels
receive additional services such as a free breakfast in the
morning, free cocktails and hors d’oeuvres in the evening,
a

24-hour

concierge
service and upgraded room amenities. In 2005, the average daily
room rate for these concierge level suites was $352.



The Venetian contains 17 restaurants and two food courts (the
majority of which were sold to GGP as part of The Grand Canal
Shops mall sale), and a theater/entertainment complex. In
October 2005, the Blue Man Group performance art production
opened in our former C2K nightclub space. The Andrew Lloyd
Webber Broadway musical “The Phantom of the Opera” is
expected to open in a new

state-of

-the-art
theater in the summer of 2006. In addition, The Venetian
provides a variety of amenities for its guests, including a

state-of

-the-art health
spa operated by Canyon Ranch, with massage and treatment rooms
and exercise and fitness areas. The hotel features an outdoor
swimming complex (including four pools, as well as spas, pool
bars and cabanas) surrounded by gardens, fountains and
sculptures.

The Venetian has an exhibition space that houses the Guggenheim
Hermitage Museum, an art museum featuring masterpiece
collections from the Guggenheim Museum in New York, the State
Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia and other museums.

The casino at The Venetian has 116,000 square feet of
gaming space and is situated adjacent to the hotel lobby. The
Venetian casino floor is accessible from each of the hotel, The
Grand Canal Shops mall, The Congress Center, The Sands Expo
Center and the Las Vegas Strip. The Venetian casino is marketed
to attract a broad base of patrons, with a focus on targeted
slot customers and high-end table customers. We market the
Venetian casino directly to this gaming market segment using
database-marketing techniques, slot clubs and traditional
incentives such as reduced room rates and complimentary meals
and suites. Slot clubs refers to a system that allows slot
machine customers to apply for and receive a slot magnetic card.
When players insert their cards into the card readers, the
system records the volume of each customer’s slot machine
wagering. Slot club participants qualify for cash returns or
other complimentary hotel amenities such as rooms and restaurant
meals in exchange for points earned based on the slot machine
wagering amounts recorded. We offer “high-roller”
gaming customers premium suites and special hotel and casino
services. Additionally, we have marketing executives located in
offices throughout North America, Europe and Asia who source
high-end players for the Las Vegas operation.

The Venetian casino and its adjacent amenities are stylized with
architectural and interior design features reminiscent of
Venice’s Renaissance era. The ceiling in the table games
area features fresco-style paintings of Venetian palaces. The
gaming facilities include approximately 1,728 slot machines of
various denominations, including popular multi-property, linked
progressive games and a sportsbook room. A high-end slot area,
with a private lounge, provides slot customers with premium slot
products and services. The Venetian casino’s 140 table
games feature the traditional games of blackjack, craps,
baccarat and roulette, Asian games such as Pai Gow and Pai Gow
Poker, and popular progressive table games such as Caribbean
Stud and Let It Ride. Our new poker room is scheduled to open in
spring 2006. For its premium customers, The Venetian recently
expanded its gaming salon, which includes baccarat, blackjack
and roulette. This facility provides Asian influenced private
dining rooms, direct access to private cash-out windows at the
casino cage and direct access to the casino’s credit
department.

The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center

With approximately 1.15 million gross square feet of
exhibit and meeting space, including four exhibit halls and
approximately 20 meeting rooms, The Sands Expo Center is one of
the largest overall trade show and convention facilities in the
United States (as measured by net leasable square footage). We
also own and operate The Congress Center, an approximately
1.1 million gross square foot meeting and conference
facility that links The Sands Expo Center and the rest of The
Venetian. The Congress Center includes an approximately
85,000 square foot column-free Venetian Ballroom, the
approximately 71,000 square foot Palazzo Ballroom, a
meeting complex of 42 individual rooms which can be combined to
create three additional ballrooms, a complex of 64 meeting rooms
which can be combined into an additional three ballrooms and
four boardrooms and an approximately 105,000 square foot
exhibition hall. Together, The Sands Expo Center and The
Congress Center offer approximately 2.25 million gross
square feet of

state-of

-the-art
exhibition and meeting facilities, which can be configured to
provide small, mid-size or large meeting rooms and/or
accommodate large-scale multi-media events or trade shows.
Management believes that these combined facilities, together
with the

on-site

amenities offered by The Venetian, offer a flexible and
expansive space for large-scale trade shows and conventions.



Management target markets The Congress Center to complement the
operations of The Sands Expo Center for business conferences and
upscale business events typically held during the mid-week
period, thereby generating room-night demand and driving average
daily room rates during the weekday move-in/move-out phases of
The Sands Expo Center’s events. Events at The Sands Expo
Center and The Congress Center typically take place during the
week when Las Vegas hotels and casinos experience lower demand,
unlike weekends and holidays during which occupancy and room
rates are at their peak. Our goal is to draw from attendees and
exhibitors at The Sands Expo Center’s events and from
attendees of The Congress Center’s events to maintain
mid-week demand at the hotel from this higher budget market
segment, when room demand would otherwise be derived from the
lower-budget tour and travel group market segment.

In 2005, approximately 660,000 visitors attended trade shows and
conventions at The Sands Expo Center during approximately 160
show days. These events include the World Shoe Association Show,
the JCK Jewelry Show, and the Automotive Aftermarket
Products Expo, each of which was a multiple-location event.

We expect that major events at The Sands Expo Center and The
Congress Center will continue to bring thousands of potential
shoppers, diners and gaming customers through The Venetian,
which will enable us to maximize mid-week occupancy, average
daily room rates and hotel revenues.

The Palazzo

We are building The Palazzo, a sister property to The Venetian.
The Palazzo will be situated adjacent to and north of The
Venetian. The Palazzo will be directly connected to both The
Venetian and The Sands Expo Center and also connected to the
Wynn Las Vegas Resort via a walk-over bridge. The Palazzo is
scheduled to open during the summer of 2007.

The Palazzo hotel will be a 50-floor luxury tower with
approximately 3,025 suites. The Palazzo will include over 375
concierge-level suites, which will offer additional services
similar to those currently offered at the concierge level suites
in The Venetian. Based on our success at The Venetian,
management believes that these concierge level suites will be
popular with customers (especially higher-budget customers) and
result in higher average daily room rates and profitability
compared to standard suites. The Palazzo will also include six
villas (up to 11,000 square feet each), which will have 3-4
bedrooms, 3.5-4.5 baths, extensive living areas, media rooms,
private pools, private jacuzzis, private salons, massage areas,
heated spas, personal gyms and, in some cases, private putting
greens. The Palazzo hotel will have 296 multi-room suites,
including six presidential suites. The presidential suites and
the villas also will offer private butler services. All of these
facilities will be targeted at high-end gaming customers. The
Palazzo will also have a pool deck (with seven pools, gardens,
sculptures, cabanas and fountains) and an adjacent spa facility.

A typical hotel suite will be approximately 655 to
735 square feet, consisting of a raised sleeping area and
bathroom and a sunken living/working area. The Palazzo is
expected to feature premium, signature restaurants owned and
operated by well-known restaurateurs.

The casino at The Palazzo is expected to cover approximately
105,000 square feet and have approximately 100 table games
and 1,700 slots and will include an exclusive gaming salon which
will have gaming tables, a noodle bar, a spa and private dining
rooms. Management believes the exclusive gaming salon will
compete with the best facilities in the market and is designed
to appeal to high-end customers from Asia. The Palazzo’s
casino will be differentiated from The Venetian’s casino in
terms of look, feel and experience. The Palazzo casino’s
design is also expected to attract a large number of walk-in
players given its proximity to both The Venetian and the Las
Vegas Strip. The Palazzo casino’s table games will feature
the traditional games of blackjack, craps, baccarat and
roulette, Asian games such as Pai Gow and Pai Gow Poker, and
popular progressive tables games such as Caribbean Stud and Let
It Ride. The Palazzo’s casino will target high-end table
games customers and premium slot customers, and will feature a
high-end slot area with special products and services.

The casino at The Palazzo will be accessible from each of The
Palazzo’s hotel, the Phase II mall, The Congress
Center, The Sands Expo Center and the Las Vegas Strip. The
Palazzo’s casino will be marketed to a broad base of
patrons with a specific focus on high-end and premium gaming
customers. Marketing for The



Palazzo’s casino will be done in conjunction with marketing
for The Venetian’s casino, including the benefits of
immediate use of the existing customer databases, slot clubs and
our marketing offices throughout North America, Europe and
Asia. Management also expects significant benefits from
cross-marketing between our Las Vegas and Macao operations.

The Palazzo also will include a theater that is expected to host
a major production or Broadway show.

The Palazzo also will include the Phase II mall. We have
contracted to sell the Phase II mall to GGP at its
completion. The Phase II mall will connect directly with
The Grand Canal Shops mall and will offer approximately
450,000 net leasable square feet of shopping, dining and
entertainment space in two levels located within The
Palazzo’s main structure, between the casino level and the
hotel tower and an interconnected ten-story structure. The
Phase II mall is expected to include approximately eight
dining establishments and 80 high-end and mid-level retail
stores. We expect that a major nationally-known retailer will
anchor one end of the mall in a three-story structure that will
interconnect with the rest of the Phase II mall and adjoin
the Las Vegas Strip. Visitors and guests will be able to access
the Phase II mall from several different locations,
including from the Las Vegas Strip, The Palazzo’s hotel and
casino, The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center.

Macao Casinos

Concession/ Subconcession

In June 2002, the Macao government granted a concession to
operate casinos in Macao to Galaxy Casino Company Limited
(“Galaxy”). Macao, the former Portuguese colony
located near Hong Kong, had gaming revenues of approximately
$5.6 billion in 2005 and is one of the largest and fastest
growing gaming markets in the world. Approximately
18.7 million visitors arrived in Macao during 2005,
according to the Macao Statistics and Census Service. The
following factors are expected to continue to significantly
improve Macao’s status as a world-class gaming and resort
destination:

•

the increased ease of access from Hong Kong, China and Taiwan
    and other Asian regional gaming markets (Macao is the only
    location in regions where Chinese is the predominant language
    that has legalized gambling);

•

significant foreign and domestic investment in new and expanded
    gaming products; and

•

the September 2005 opening of Hong Kong Disneyland and other new
    resort developments in the region.

We believe that the Macao opportunity provides an international
platform to expand our premier “Sands,”
“Venetian” and “Paiza” brands and create
increased diversification of, and a new source of significant
growth for, our revenue and cash flow base.

Galaxy was one of three entities to be granted a casino license
in Macao. During December 2002, we entered into a subconcession
agreement with Galaxy, which was approved by the Macao
government. The subconcession agreement allows us to develop and
operate certain casino projects in Macao, including The Sands
Macao and The Venetian Macao separately from Galaxy. Under the
subconcession agreement, we are obligated to develop and open
The Venetian Macao and a convention center by December 2007. We
are also obligated to operate casino games of chance or games of
other forms in Macao and to invest, or cause to be invested, at
least 4.4 billion patacas (approximately
$527.4 million at exchange rates in effect on
December 31, 2005) in various development projects in Macao
by June 2009. We have been informed by the Macao government that
the construction and development costs of The Sands Macao can be
applied to the fulfillment of this total investment obligation.
As a result, as of December 31, 2005, we had invested the
required amounts. We are currently scheduled to open The
Venetian Macao in mid-2007. If we fail to meet the December 2007
deadline under our subconcession, the Macao government has the
right, after consultation with our concessionaire, Galaxy, to
unilaterally terminate our subconcession to operate The Sands
Macao or any of our other casino operations in Macao, without
compensation to us. If this occurs, we may lose our right to
continue to operate The Sands Macao and our investment to date
in the construction of The Venetian



Macao. In addition, we are building The Venetian Macao on land
for which we have not yet been granted a concession. If we do
not obtain a land concession, we could forfeit all or a part of
our investment in the site and in the construction of The
Venetian Macao and would not be able to open and operate that
facility as planned. See “— Risk
Factors — Risks Related to Our Business —
There are significant risks associated with our planned
construction projects, which could adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from
these planned facilities” and “Risk
Factors — Risks Associated with Our International
Operations — We are constructing The Venetian Macao on
land for which we have not yet been granted a concession. If we
do not obtain a land concession, we could forfeit all or a part
of our investment in the site and construction of The Venetian
Macao and would not be able to open and operate that facility as
planned.”

If the Galaxy concession is terminated for any reason, the
subconcession will remain in effect. The subconcession may be
terminated by agreement between ourselves and Galaxy. Galaxy is
not entitled to terminate the subconcession unilaterally.
However, the Macao government, with the consent of Galaxy, may
terminate the subconcession under certain circumstances. See
“— Regulation and Licensing —
Macao.” Galaxy will develop hotel and casino projects
separately from us.

Macao Casinos

We own and operate The Sands Macao, the first Las Vegas-style
casino situated in Macao, pursuant to the

20-year

gaming
subconcession described above.

The Sands Macao is situated approximately 0.3 miles from
the Macao-Hong Kong Ferry Terminal. It is situated on a
waterfront parcel centrally located at the heart of Macao’s
gaming district, which provides The Sands Macao primary access
to a large customer base, particularly the approximately
6.5 million visitors who arrived in Macao by ferry in 2005.
The Sands Macao includes approximately 172,000 square feet
of gaming facilities. The Sands Macao has approximately 440
table games, including baccarat, Sic-Bo, Fan-Tan, 3 card
baccarat, 3 card poker, stud poker, blackjack and roulette, and
approximately 930 slot machines or similar electronic gaming
devices. The Sands Macao also includes numerous restaurants, a
spacious Paiza Club offering services and amenities to premium
customers, luxurious VIP suites and spa facilities, private VIP
gaming room facilities, a theater and other high end services
and amenities.

We are currently completing an expansion of The Sands
Macao’s gaming facilities so that The Sands Macao will have
approximately 700 tables and 1,200 slot machines. The expansion
is expected to open in August 2006.

In November 2004, we began construction of The Venetian Macao on
the Cotai Strip. The Venetian Macao will be an all-suites hotel,
casino and convention center complex with a Venetian-style theme
similar to that of The Venetian. The Venetian Macao is expected
to initially have approximately 4,000 slot machines and 750
table games. The Venetian Macao will also feature a 39-floor
luxury hotel tower of approximately 3,000 suites, an enclosed
retail, dining and entertainment complex of approximately
870,000 square feet, which is expected to include high-end
and mid-level retailers and multiple signature restaurants, and
a convention center and meeting room complex of approximately
1.2 million square feet. The Venetian Macao is scheduled to
open in mid-2007.

In connection with the development of The Venetian Macao, we are
sponsoring a master plan for the development of multiple
properties on the Cotai Strip designed to meet the demand
generated by the rapidly-growing Asian gaming market and attract
destination and convention visitors to Macao for multi-day
visits. We have submitted development plans to the Macao
government for six casino-resort developments in addition to The
Venetian Macao on an area of approximately 200 acres on the
Cotai Strip. The developments are expected to include hotels,
exhibition and conference facilities, casinos, showrooms,
shopping malls, spas, world-class restaurants and entertainment
facilities and other attractions, as well as common public
areas. We plan to own and operate all of the casinos in these
developments under our Macao gaming subconcession. The Venetian
Macao will serve as the anchor property at the corner of entry
to the Cotai Strip.



We intend to develop the other Cotai Strip developments as
follows:

We do not yet have all the Macao government approvals that we
will need in order to develop the Cotai Strip developments.

The Las Vegas Market

The Las Vegas market has shown consistent growth over both the
near and long terms in both visitation and expenditures and has
one of the highest hotel occupancy rates of any major market in
the United States. According to the LVCVA, the number of
visitors traveling to Las Vegas has increased at a steady and
significant rate over the last 12 years, from
23.5 million visitors in 1993 to approximately
38.6 million visitors in 2005. In addition, the population
of Clark County has more than doubled in the last 15 years,
from approximately 770,280 in 1990 to approximately
1.8 million in 2005. We believe that the growth in the
Las Vegas market has been enhanced by:

•

the introduction of large luxury and themed destination resorts
    in Las Vegas, such as The Venetian, the Bellagio, the Mandalay
    Bay Resort & Casino and the Wynn Las Vegas Resort.
    These world class properties attract new visitors to Las Vegas
    while also gaining share from older, smaller and/or
    undifferentiated resorts;

•

the increased capacity to host large-scale trade shows and
    conventions; and

•

the increased capacity of McCarran International Airport.



Las Vegas as a Trade Show, Convention and Meeting
    Destination

According to the LVCVA, Las Vegas has been among the most
popular trade show and convention destinations in the United
States in recent years. The following table indicates the rise
in number of trade show and convention attendees in Las Vegas
and amounts spent by attendees between 1995 and 2005, according
to the LVCVA.

(1)

In 2001, the LVCVA changed its reporting methodology for
    conventions and trade shows to account for numerous smaller
    meetings not previously included in LVCVA counts.

The majority of the room demand from trade show and convention
attendees is generated during weekdays while tourist visits to
Las Vegas are higher on weekends. As a result, the trade show
convention market segments have been specifically targeted as
prime avenues for driving mid-week traffic to Las Vegas.

Trade shows are held for the purpose of getting sellers and
buyers of products or services together in order to conduct
business. Trade shows differ from conventions in that trade
shows typically require substantial amounts of space for
exhibition purposes and participant circulation. Conventions
generally are gatherings of companies or groups that require
less space for breakout meetings and general meetings of the
overall group. Las Vegas offers trade shows and conventions a
unique infrastructure for handling the world’s largest
shows, including the concentration of approximately 133,186
hotel rooms in 2005 according to the LVCVA, three convention
centers (the Las Vegas Convention Center (the “LVCC”)
with 3.2 million square feet, the Mandalay Bay Convention
Center with 1.8 million square feet and The Sands Expo
Center), convenient air service from major cities throughout the
United States and other countries, and significant entertainment
opportunities.

Expanding Hotel Market

Las Vegas has been among the most popular travel destinations in
the United States in recent years, with hotel occupancy rates
among the highest of any major market in the country. To
accommodate this popularity, Las Vegas has experienced a period
of rapid hotel development, with the number of hotel and motel
rooms in Las Vegas increasing from 86,053 in 1993 to
approximately 133,186 in 2005 according to the LVCVA. Much of
this increase occurred in the late 1990s with the opening of The
Venetian, the Bellagio, the Mandalay Bay Resort &
Casino, Paris Las Vegas and Aladdin, among others. The
concentration of luxury and themed casino hotels and resorts is
expected to continue encouraging visitor interest in Las Vegas
as a trade show, convention and vacation destination and, as a
result, increase overall demand for hotel rooms, gaming and
entertainment. In addition, management expects the Wynn Las
Vegas Resort located next to our properties to continue to
improve foot traffic around and interest in the sections of the
Las Vegas Strip between Flamingo Road and Sands Avenue, where
our properties are located. Although Las Vegas was impacted by
the events of September 11, 2001, with overall visitors
down 2.3% and hotel occupancy down 3.6% from 2000, the market
began to rebound in 2002, with the number of visitors in 2004
surpassing 2000 levels.



Growth of Las Vegas Retail Sector and Non-Gaming Revenue
    Expenditures

An increasing number of destination resorts are developing
non-gaming entertainment to complement their gaming activities
in order to draw additional visitors. According to the LVCVA,
while gaming revenues in Clark County have increased from
approximately $5.4 billion in 1994 to approximately
$9.7 billion in 2005 (a 5.5% compound annual growth rate),
non-gaming tourist revenues increased from $13.7 billion in
1994 to $25.0 billion in 2004 (a 6.2% compound annual
growth rate). The newer, large luxury and themed Las Vegas
destination resorts have been designed to capitalize on this
growth by providing better quality hotel rooms at higher rates
and by providing expanded shopping, dining and entertainment
venues, as well as meeting facilities, to their patrons in
addition to gaming.

Infrastructure Improvements

Clark County and metropolitan Las Vegas have completed several
infrastructure improvements to accommodate the increase in
travel to Las Vegas by all modes of transportation. According to
the LVCVA, in 2004 (last full year for which data is available)
visitors to Las Vegas arrived by the following methods of
transportation: 47% by air; 43% by auto; 2% by recreational
vehicle and 8% by bus.

McCarran International Airport Expansion

During recent years, the facilities of McCarran International
Airport have been expanded to accommodate the increased number
of airlines and passengers that it services. The number of
passengers traveling through McCarran International Airport has
increased from approximately 30.5 million in 1996 to
approximately 44.3 million in 2005. Long term expansion
plans for McCarran International Airport provide for additional
runway and related areas, terminal concourse expansions, a new
control tower and other facilities and is currently expected to
be completed in 2010.

Competition in Las Vegas

The casino/hotel industry is highly competitive. Hotels on the
Las Vegas Strip compete with other hotels on and off the Las
Vegas Strip, including with hotels in downtown Las Vegas. The
Venetian also competes with a large number of hotels and motels
near Las Vegas. Many of our competitors are subsidiaries or
divisions of large public companies and may have greater
financial and other resources than we have. In particular, the
acquisition of Mandalay Resort Group by MGM Mirage and the
acquisition of Caesars Entertainment Inc. by Harrah’s
Entertainment created the world’s two largest gaming
companies.

Hotel/ Casino Properties

Competitors of The Venetian include themed resorts on the Las
Vegas Strip, such as the Bellagio, the Mandalay Bay
Resort & Casino and Paris Las Vegas. Recent hotel
additions include the approximately

928-room

Bellagio spa
tower that opened 2004 and the approximately 1,000 room addition
to Caesars Palace that opened in August 2005. In April 2005, the
Wynn Las Vegas Resort, an approximately 2,700 hotel-room resort
and casino, opened on Sands Avenue next to The Palazzo. Off the
Las Vegas Strip, Boyd Gaming Corporation opened its South Coast
Hotel and Casino in December 2005 five miles south of Mandalay
Bay on Las Vegas Boulevard. Future competition includes MGM
Mirage’s Project CityCenter, a multi-billion dollar urban
complex that is expected to consist of hotels and condominium
towers, and casino and retail, dining and entertainment venues.
The first phase of Project CityCenter is expected to open in
2009. In addition, Wynn Las Vegas Resort plans a second hotel
tower, the Encore, with 2,000 suites and additional casino,
retail and convention space that is expected to open in the
second half of 2008. Other announced projects include Boyd
Gaming’s $4.0 billion, 5,300 room Echelon Place resort
complex to be located on the site of the Stardust Hotel on the
northern end of the Las Vegas Strip. Echelon Place is expected
to include approximately 1.0 million square feet of
convention and meeting space and is expected to open in 2010. In
addition, a renovation and rebranding of the approximately
2,600-room Aladdin is expected to be completed in October 2006.
A newly formed company, Fontainebleau Resorts, also plans to
build a 4,000-room hotel and casino on the north end of the Las
Vegas Strip that is expected to open in 2008. Some of these
facilities are operated by



companies that have more than one operating facility and may
have greater name recognition and financial and marketing
resources than we do and target the same demographic group as we
do.

We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on
Native American tribal lands. Native American tribes in
California are permitted to operate casinos with video gaming
machines, black jack and house-banked card games. The governor
of California has entered into compacts with numerous tribes in
California and has announced the execution of a number of new
compacts with no limits on the number of gaming machines, which
was limited under the prior compacts. The federal government has
approved numerous compacts in California and casino-style gaming
is now legal on those tribal lands. While the competitive impact
on our operations in Las Vegas from the continued growth of
Native American gaming establishments in California remains
uncertain, the proliferation of gaming in California and other
areas located near The Venetian could have an adverse effect on
our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

The hotel-casino operation of The Venetian also competes, to
some extent, with other hotel-casino facilities in Nevada and in
Atlantic City, hotel/casino and other resort facilities
elsewhere in the country and the world, Internet gaming websites
and state lotteries. In addition, certain states have legalized,
and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific areas. The
continued proliferation of gaming venues could significantly and
adversely affect our business. In particular, the legalization
of casino gaming in or near major metropolitan areas from which
we traditionally attract customers, such as New York, Los
Angeles, San Francisco and Boston, could have a material
adverse effect on our business. In October 2001, the New York
legislature approved a bill for expanded casino gaming on Native
American reservations and video lottery terminals. In 2003 and
2004, Maine and Pennsylvania, respectively, approved legislation
legalizing slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices at
certain locations, although this legislation has not been
implemented yet. A number of states have permitted or are
considering permitting gaming at “racinos,” on Native
American reservations and through expansion of state lotteries.
The current global trend toward liberalization of gaming
restrictions and the resulting proliferation of gaming venues
could result in a decrease in the number of visitors to our Las
Vegas facilities, by attracting customers close to home and away
from Las Vegas, which could adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Trade Show and Convention Facilities

The Sands Expo Center, The Congress Center, and Las Vegas
generally compete with trade show and convention facilities
located in and around major U.S. cities, including Atlanta,
Chicago, New York, and Orlando. Within Las Vegas, The Sands Expo
Center and The Congress Center compete with the LVCC, which is
located off of the Las Vegas Strip and currently has
approximately 3.2 million gross square feet of convention
and exhibit facilities. In addition to the LVCC, the Mandalay
Bay Resort & Casino has an approximately
1.8 million square foot convention center. The MGM Grand
Hotel and Casino has a conference and meeting facility of
approximately 380,000 square feet and the Mirage has
approximately 170,000 gross square feet of meeting space.
The Wynn Las Vegas Resort has 223,000 square feet of
convention, meeting and reception space and plans additional
convention space at its proposed Encore facility. The conference
and meeting facilities at these hotel/resorts are The Congress
Center’s primary Las Vegas competition. Boyd Gaming
Corporation’s Echelon Place is expected to include
approximately 1.0 million square feet of convention and
meeting space when it opens in 2010. The LVCC and the Mandalay
Bay Convention Center are the primary competitors of The Sands
Expo Center. In February 2006, the LVCVA approved an
approximately $737 million project to expand and upgrade
the LVCC, which is expected to be completed in 2010. We believe
the LVCC expansion project will make it more competitive with
private convention and meeting providers like us. To the extent
that any of the competitors of The Venetian can offer a
hotel/casino experience that is integrated with substantial
trade show and convention, conference and meeting facilities,
The Venetian’s competitive advantage in attracting trade
show and convention, conference and meeting attendees could be
adversely affected. Other cities, such as Boston, Orlando, and
Pittsburgh, are also in the process of developing, or have
announced plans to develop, convention centers and other
meeting, trade and exhibition facilities.



The Macao Market

Introduction

Located less than an hour away from Hong Kong via a hydrofoil
ferry system, Macao is regarded as one of the largest and
fastest-growing gaming markets in the world. Macao also has the
advantage of sharing a border with China’s Guangdong
province, which has more than 100 million residents and is
the most populous and prosperous region of China. Macao benefits
from being the only market in China to offer legalized casino
gaming.

Since the reversion of Macao from Portugal to China, gaming
revenue in Macao has grown from approximately $1.7 billion
in 1999 to approximately $5.6 billion in 2005, reflecting a
22.0% compound annual growth rate. Visitor volume has grown from
approximately 7.4 million in 1999 to approximately
18.7 million in 2005, according to the Macao Statistics and
Census Service, a 1.7% compound annual growth rate. Gaming
customers traveling to Macao generally come from nearby
countries in Asia, such as mainland China, Hong Kong,
Taiwan, South Korea and Japan. Approximately 1.0 billion
people are estimated to live within a three-hour flight from
Macao and approximately 3.0 billion people are estimated to
live within a five-hour flight from Macao. According to the
Macao Statistics and Census Service Monthly Bulletin of
Statistics, 86% of the tourists who visited Macao in 2005 came
from Hong Kong or mainland China and the dominant feeder markets
to Macao have been and continue to be Hong Kong and China.
Although the absolute number of visitors from Hong Kong
continues to grow, that market has shrunk as a percentage of the
total visitor distribution from 67.2% in 1997 to 30% in 2005,
while mainland China made up 56% of total visitors in 2005. The
number of visitors from China has exhibited consistent growth
from 1997 to 2005, with a 48.8% compound annual growth rate in
the number of visitors for that period. Until recently, mainland
Chinese were only permitted to visit Macao as part of a tour
group. Now that these travel restrictions have eased for
mainland Chinese from certain urban centers and economically
developed regions, individual travel to Macao is expected to
generate increased demand for casino offerings.

Macao as a Gaming and Resort Destination

In May 2004, The Sands Macao became the first Las Vegas-style
casino to open in Macao. Our superior gaming product is expected
to enable us to capture a meaningful share of the overall growth
of the market, including the VIP player market segment, in
Macao. Although we believe that the continued improvement of the
casino gaming regulations by the Macao government, including the
enactment of casino credit and collection legislation effective
July 1, 2004, will enable us to effectively compete in the
VIP player market segment, our business in Macao may not be able
to realize the full benefits of extending credit to our
customers if laws are not changed.

Gaming revenues in Macao in 2005 reached a record
$5.6 billion, a 5.5% increase over 2004. Visits to Macao
were up 11% in 2005, compared to 2004.

According to Macao Statistics and Census Service Monthly
Bulletin of Statistics, during the first 11 months of 2005,
20% of visitors traveling to Macao stayed overnight in hotels
and guestrooms and, for those who stayed overnight in hotels and
guestrooms, the average length of stay was only 1 or 2 nights.
Management expects this length of stay to increase with
increased visitation, the expansion of gaming and the addition
of upscale hotel resort accommodations in Macao. According to
the Macao Statistics and Census Service, in 2005, there were 44
hotels and 31 guest houses in operation in Macao, of which nine
were classified as

“5-star.”

These hotels and guest houses maintained approximately 10,850
rooms and experienced approximately 70.4% occupancy rates during
the first 11 months of 2005.

Table games are the dominant form of gaming in Asia. Baccarat is
by far the most popular game, followed by blackjack, Sic-Bo,
roulette and other traditional U.S. and Asian games. Slot
machines are offered in Macao, but they are few in number
because the structure of the gaming market in Macao has
historically favored table gaming. However, with the increase in
the mass market gaming in Macao, this is changing and slot
machines of international standards are becoming an important
feature of the market. We believe the limited emphasis on slot
machines in the past also reflects the market’s perception
that slots offered in Macao



were an inferior slot product. By contrast, in other gaming
venues catering to an Asian clientele, slot machines are in high
demand and profitable. We expect the slots business to grow in
Macao and we intend to introduce more modern and popular
products to appeal to the Asian marketplace.

We believe that as new facilities and standards of service are
introduced, Macao will become an even more desirable tourist
destination and has the potential to become a larger gaming
market than Las Vegas. The improved experience of visitors to
Macao should lead to longer stays and an increased number of
return trips from existing feeder markets and the opening of
several new feeder markets. The gaming licensees selected to
invest in gaming facilities and foster the growth of the Macao
gaming market have committed to invest in Macao, a total of at
least 17.5 billion patacas (approximately $2.1 billion
at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2005). The
substantial financial commitment by these gaming licensees is
expected to help boost future gaming revenue and stimulate
investment in other Macao tourism and leisure activities. In
2005, China’s gross domestic product totaled approximately
$1.83 trillion compared to $1.69 trillion in 2004 and
$815.4 billion in 1996. On a per capita basis, China’s
gross domestic product was $6,200 in 2005. We believe that a
wealthier Chinese middle class will lead to increased travel to
Macao and generate increasing demand for gaming entertainment
and casino resort offerings. We also believe that the
combination of less onerous travel restrictions, greater ability
of Chinese citizens to bring renminbi (the Chinese currency) to
Macao, increasing regional wealth and the opening of world-class
facilities will convert Macao from primarily a day-trip market
to a multi-day travel destination similar to Las Vegas, where
management estimates the average visitor stays approximately
three nights.

Proximity to Major Asian Cities

Gaming customers from Hong Kong, southeast China, Taiwan and
other locations in Asia can reach Macao in a relatively short
period of time, using a variety of methods of transportation,
and visitors from more distant locations in Asia can take
advantage of short travel times by air to Macao or to Hong Kong
(followed by a short water ferry or helicopter trip to Macao).
The relatively easy access from major population centers
promotes Macao as a popular gaming destination in Asia.

Macao draws a significant number of gaming customers from both
visitors and residents of Hong Kong. One of the major methods of
transportation to Macao from Hong Kong is the hydrofoil ferry
service. The hydrofoil ferry offers service up to five times per
hour, with trips to and from Macao taking under an hour. In
March 2005, the Macao government began a land reclamation
project for the construction of a second ferry terminal in
Macao, to be located by the Macao International Airport and near
the Cotai Strip. Macao is also accessible from Hong Kong by
helicopter in approximately 20 to 30 minutes. In addition, the
proposed bridge linking Hong Kong, Macao and Zhuhai is expected
to reduce the travel time between central Hong Kong and Macao
from 5 hours to 40 minutes. The bridge is expected be
completed in 2011.

Macao completed construction of an international airport in 1995
that provides direct air service to many major cities in Asia,
such as Manila, Singapore, Taipei, Bangkok, Beijing and
Shanghai. The Macao International Airport can accommodate large
commercial airliners and has regularly scheduled air service to
approximately 20 cities, including at least 11 in China,
with links to numerous other major Asian destinations.

The Macao pataca and the Hong Kong dollar are linked to each
other and, in many cases, are used interchangeably in Macao.
However, currency exchange controls and restrictions on the
export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact
the success of our operations. For example, there are currently
existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the
export of the renminbi, the currency of China. Restrictions on
the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming
customers from China to Macao, inhibit the growth of gaming in
Macao and negatively impact our gaming operations.

Competition in Macao

Gaming in Macao is administered through government-sanctioned
concessions awarded to three different concessionaires. The
Macao government is precluded by contract from granting any
additional gaming concessions until 2009. In addition, the
current laws only permit three gaming concessions, although
future subconcessions are permitted. However, the laws could
change and permit the Macao government to grant



additional gaming concessions before 2009. If the Macao
government were to allow additional competitors to operate in
Macao through the grant of additional concessions or
subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

SJM holds one of the three concessions. SJM currently operates
16 facilities throughout Macao. Historically, SJM was the only
gaming operator in Macao, with over 40 years of operating
experience in Macao. Most of its 16 casinos are relatively small
facilities that are offered as amenities in hotels, however a
few are large operations enjoying recognition by gaming
customers. SJM was obligated to invest at least approximately
4.7 billion patacas (approximately $563.4 million at
exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2005) by
March 31, 2009 under its concession agreement with the
government of Macao. SJM’s projects include the upgrade of
the Lisboa Hotel, Macao’s largest hotel with approximately
1,000 rooms, the Fisherman’s Wharf entertainment complex,
which opened on December 31, 2005, and a potential new
casino hotel project. SJM also announced the construction of
Oceanus, an $800.0 million casino complex near the ferry
terminal in Macao, scheduled to open in 2009. According to press
reports, Melco International Development, a company managed by
Lawrence Ho (the son of SJM’s Managing Director Stanley
Ho), has entered into an agreement with Publishing and
Broadcasting Ltd., Australia’s biggest casino owner, under
which Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd. will own a minority stake
in Stanley Ho’s Park Hyatt hotel and casino development in
Macao. Melco has also announced a $1.0 billion “City
of Dreams” project, which will include casino, hotel,
retail, entertainment and apartment space adjacent to the Cotai
Strip and is scheduled to open in 2008. In addition, MGM Mirage
has entered into a joint venture agreement with Stanley
Ho’s daughter, Pansy Ho Chiu-king, to develop, build and
operate a major hotel-casino resort in Macao. In April 2005, MGM
obtained a subconcession allowing it to conduct gaming
operations in Macao. Construction on the MGM Grand Macao, which
is estimated to cost approximately $1.0 billion, began in
the second quarter of 2005 and the resort is scheduled to open
in the second half of 2007.

Galaxy holds a concession and has the ability to operate casino
properties independent of us. Galaxy is obligated to invest at
least 4.4 billion patacas (approximately
$527.4 million at exchange rates in effect on
December 31, 2005) by June 2012 under its concession
agreement with the government of Macao. Galaxy currently
operates one small casino in Macao.

Wynn Resorts (Macau), S.A. (“Wynn Macau”), a
subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited, holds the third concession.
Wynn Macau is obligated to invest at least 4.0 billion
patacas (approximately $479.5 million at exchange rates in
effect on December 31, 2005) by June 27, 2009 under
its concession agreement with the government of Macao. Wynn
Macau is constructing a facility that is expected to open in
fall 2006 and will include an approximately 600 room hotel, a
casino and other non-gaming amenities. Wynn Macau recently
announced plans to expand the property to include additional
gaming space. The expansion is scheduled to open by the third
quarter of 2007. The estimated cost of the project, including
the expansion, is approximately $1.1 billion. Wynn Macau
also has announced plans to build up to three resorts on the
Cotai Strip but has not yet publicly provided details of these
proposed projects.

We will also face competition from casinos located in other
areas of Asia, such as the major gaming and resort destination
Genting Highlands Resort, located outside of Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia and casinos in South Korea and the Philippines, as well
as pachinko and pachislot parlors in Japan. In addition, we will
compete with casinos in Singapore if we are not awarded a gaming
license there. We will also encounter competition from other
major gaming centers located around the world, such as Australia
and Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and
illegal casinos throughout Asia.

Other Development Projects

Following the Singapore government’s adoption of gaming
legislation in 2005, we submitted a proposal to the Singapore
government for a license to develop a large integrated resort,
including a casino, in Singapore. There are currently three
competing proposals for this resort/casino license. The
Singapore government is expected to award this license in
mid-2006.



We have entered into a non-binding agreement with the Zhuhai
Municipal People’s Government of the People’s Republic
of China to work with it to create a master plan for, and
develop, a leisure and convention destination resort on Hengqin
Island, located approximately one mile from the Cotai Strip. We
are actively preparing preliminary design concepts for
presentation to the government. This development is subject to a
number of conditions, including receiving further governmental
approvals.

On December 3, 2004, following the enactment of legislation
legalizing slot machine gaming in Pennsylvania, we entered into
a contribution agreement with Bethworks Now, LLC, the owner of
an approximately 124 acre site located in Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania. We have submitted a proposal to obtain one of two
“at large” gaming licenses available in Pennsylvania.
There are several competing proposals for these licenses. If a
slot machine license under the new legislation is granted for
the site, we intend to jointly own and develop the property for
use as a casino complex including a hotel with meeting rooms and
retail, restaurant, movie theater, office and other commercial
spaces. The Bethlehem development is subject to a number of
conditions, including obtaining the gaming license.

We have also entered into agreements to develop and lease gaming
and entertainment facilities with two prominent football clubs
in the United Kingdom and are in discussions with several others
to build entertainment and gaming facilities in major cities in
the United Kingdom. There are several competing proposals for
the single “regional” casino license currently
authorized by statute. Our agreements to develop and lease
gaming and entertainment facilities are subject to a number of
conditions, including passage of legislation to expand the
number of authorized regional casinos and obtaining a gaming
license.

Advertising and Marketing

We advertise in many types of media, including television,
radio, newspapers, magazines, and billboards, to promote general
market awareness of The Venetian as a unique vacation, business
and convention destination due to our first-class hotel, casino,
retail stores, restaurants and other amenities. The Sands Macao
also provides advertising and direct marketing of its casino. We
actively engage in direct marketing, which is targeted at
specific market segments, including the premium slot and table
games markets and free and independent market. These direct
marketing efforts involve our issuing invitations to the various
parties hosted by The Venetian at peak periods, such as New
Year’s Eve, Super Bowl Weekend, Final Four Weekend, Chinese
New Year and when boxing matches are held in Las Vegas. We issue
invitations by conducting direct mail and

e-mail

campaigns, as
well as placing personal phone calls and making personal visits
to select customers. Invitation lists are created by our
casino-marketing department using a database containing
information collected from our casino and hotel customers. We
also engage in database marketing, which focuses on high
frequency, high-margin market segments such as the high-roller
gaming market.

Regulation and Licensing

State of Nevada

The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the
State of Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and
the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the
“Nevada Act”) and various local regulations. Our
gaming operations are also subject to the licensing and
regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the
“Nevada Commission”), the Nevada Gaming Control Board
(the “Nevada Board”) and the Clark County Liquor and
Gaming Licensing Board (the “CCLGLB” and, together
with the Nevada Commission and the Nevada Board, the
“Nevada Gaming Authorities”).

The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada
Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy
that are concerned with, among other things:

•

the prevention of unsavory or unsuitable persons from having a
    direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any
    capacity;

•

the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting
    practices and procedures;



•

the maintenance of effective controls over the financial
    practices of licensees, including the establishment of minimum
    procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of
    assets and revenues, providing reliable record-keeping and
    requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities;

•

the prevention of cheating and fraudulent practices; and

•

the establishment of a source of state and local revenues
    through taxation and licensing fees.

Any change in such laws, regulations and procedures could have
an adverse effect on our gaming operations or on the operation
of The Venetian and The Palazzo.

Las Vegas Sands, LLC is licensed by the Nevada Gaming
Authorities to operate The Venetian. The gaming license requires
the periodic payment of fees and taxes and is not transferable.
Las Vegas Sands, LLC is also registered as an intermediary
company of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC. Venetian Casino Resort,
LLC is licensed as a key executive of Las Vegas Sands, LLC, and
as a manufacturer and distributor of gaming devices. Las Vegas
Sands, LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC are collectively
referred to as the “licensed subsidiaries.” Las Vegas
Sands Corp. is registered with the Nevada Commission as a
publicly-traded corporation (the “registered
corporation”). As such, we must periodically submit
detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Gaming
Authorities and furnish any other information that the Nevada
Gaming Authorities may require. No person may become a
stockholder of, or receive any percentage of the profits from
the licensed subsidiaries without first obtaining licenses and
approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Additionally, the
CCLGLB has taken the position that it has the authority to
approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any
corporation controlling a gaming licensee. We and the licensed
subsidiaries possess all state and local government
registrations, approvals, permits and licenses required in order
for us to engage in gaming activities at The Venetian. We will
apply for all state and local government registrations,
approvals, permits and licenses that may be required in order
for us to engage in gaming activities at The Palazzo.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who
has a material relationship to or material involvement with us
or the licensed subsidiaries to determine whether such
individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business
associate of a gaming licensee. Officers, directors and certain
key employees of the licensed subsidiaries must file
applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and may be
required to be licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Our
officers, directors and key employees who are actively and
directly involved in the gaming activities of the licensed
subsidiaries may be required to be licensed or found suitable by
the Nevada Gaming Authorities.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for
licensing or a finding of suitability for any cause they deem
reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing;
both require submission of detailed personal and financial
information followed by a thorough investigation. The applicant
for licensing or a finding of suitability, or the gaming
licensee by whom the applicant is employed or for whom the
applicant serves, must pay all the costs of the investigation.
Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada
Gaming Authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny
an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the
Nevada Gaming Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a
change in a corporate position.

If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer,
director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or to have an
inappropriate relationship with us or the licensed subsidiaries,
we would have to sever all relationships with such person. In
addition, the Nevada Commission may require us or the licensed
subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any person who
refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of
suitability or of questions pertaining to licensing are not
subject to judicial review in Nevada.

We and the licensed subsidiaries are required to submit periodic
detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada
Commission. Substantially all our and our licensed
subsidiaries’ material loans, leases, sales of securities
and similar financing transactions must be reported to or
approved by the Nevada Commission.



If it were determined that we or a licensed subsidiary violated
the Nevada Act, the registration and gaming licenses we then
hold could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked,
subject to compliance with certain statutory and regulatory
procedures. In addition, we and the persons involved could be
subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the
Nevada Act at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Further,
a supervisor could be appointed by the Nevada Commission to
operate the casinos, and, under certain circumstances, earnings
generated during the supervisor’s appointment (except for
the reasonable rental value of the casinos) could be forfeited
to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension
of any gaming registration or license or the appointment of a
supervisor could (and revocation of any gaming license would)
materially adversely affect our gaming operations.

Any beneficial holder of our voting securities, regardless of
the number of shares owned, may be required to file an
application, be investigated, and have its suitability as a
beneficial holder of our voting securities determined if the
Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such ownership
would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of
the State of Nevada. The applicant must pay all costs of
investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in
conducting any such investigation.

The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of
our voting securities to report the acquisition to the Nevada
Commission. The Nevada Act requires that beneficial owners of
more than 10% of our voting securities apply to the Nevada
Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after
the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice
requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an
“institutional investor” as defined in the Nevada Act,
which acquires more than 10% but not more than 15% of our voting
securities, may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of
such finding of suitability if such institutional investor holds
the voting securities only for investment purposes.

An institutional investor will be deemed to hold voting
securities only for investment purposes if it acquires and holds
the voting securities in the ordinary course of business as an
institutional investment and not for the purpose of causing,
directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the
members of our board of directors, any change in our corporate
charter, by-laws, management, policies or our operations or any
of our gaming affiliates, or any other action which the Nevada
Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding our voting
securities only for investment purposes. Activities that are not
deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities only
for investment purposes include:

If the beneficial holder of nonvoting securities who must be
licensed or found suitable is a corporation, partnership or
trust, it must submit detailed business and financial
information including a list of beneficial owners. The applicant
is required to pay all costs of investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered
to do so by the Nevada Commission or the Chairman of the Nevada
Board may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a
record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to
identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable
and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership
of the common stock of a Registered Corporation beyond such
period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may
be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary
action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable
to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or
a licensed subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries:

•

pay that person any dividend or interest upon voting securities
    of us;



Our charter documents include provisions intended to help us
comply with these requirements.

The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder
of any debt security of a registered corporation to file an
application, be investigated and be found suitable to own the
debt security of such registered corporation. If the Nevada
Commission determines that a person is unsuitable to own such
security, then pursuant to the Nevada Act, the registered
corporation can be sanctioned, including the loss of its
approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada
Commission, it:

We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada
that may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any
time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a
nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the
identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming
Authorities and we are also required to disclose the identity of
the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure
to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record
holder unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum
assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner.
The Nevada Commission has the power to require our stock
certificates to bear a legend indicating that such securities
are subject to the Nevada Act. However, to date the Nevada
Commission has not imposed such a requirement on us.

We cannot make a public offering of any securities without the
prior approval of the Nevada Commission if the securities or the
proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct,
acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or
extend obligations incurred for such purposes. On
August 25, 2005, the Nevada Commission granted us prior
approval to make public offerings for a period of
14 months, subject to certain conditions (the “shelf
approval”). The shelf approval includes prior approval by
the Nevada Commission for us to place restrictions on the
transfer of the equity securities of our licensed subsidiaries
and to enter into agreements not to encumber such equity
securities. However, the shelf approval may be rescinded for
good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an
interlocutory stop order by the Chairman of the Nevada Board.
The shelf approval does not constitute a finding,
recommendation, or approval by the Nevada Commission or the
Nevada Board as to the investment merits of any securities
offered under the shelf approval. Any representation to the
contrary is unlawful.

Changes in our control through a merger, consolidation, stock or
asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement, or any
act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control,
shall not occur without the prior approval of the Nevada
Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered
corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada
Commission concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to
assuming control of such registered corporation. The Nevada
Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers,
directors and other persons having a material relationship or
involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be
investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the
transaction.

The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate
acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting
securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming
licensees, and registered corporations that are affiliated with
those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive



corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has established a
regulatory scheme to ameliorate the potentially-adverse effects
of these business practices upon Nevada’s gaming industry
and to further Nevada’s policy to:

Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the
Nevada Commission before we can make exceptional repurchases of
voting securities above the current market price thereof and
before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be
consummated.

The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of
recapitalization proposed by the board of directors in response
to a tender offer made directly to the registered
corporation’s stockholders for the purposes of acquiring
control of the registered corporation.

License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending upon
the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the
State of Nevada and to Clark County, Nevada. Depending upon the
particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable
either monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon:

The tax on gross revenues received is generally 6.75%. In
addition, an excise tax is paid by us on charges for admission
to any facility where certain forms of live entertainment are
provided. Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, is also required to pay
certain fees and taxes to the State of Nevada as a licensed
manufacturer and distributor.

Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered,
required to be registered, or under common control with such
persons (collectively, “licensees”), and who proposes
to become involved in a gaming operation outside of Nevada, is
required to deposit with the Nevada Board, and thereafter
maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the
expenses of any investigation by the Nevada Board into their
participation in such foreign gaming operation. The revolving
fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the
Nevada Commission. Thereafter, licensees are also required to
comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada
Act. Licensees are also subject to disciplinary action by the
Nevada Commission if they knowingly violate any laws of any
foreign jurisdiction pertaining to such foreign gaming
operation, fail to conduct such foreign gaming operation in
accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required
of Nevada gaming operations, engage in activities that are
harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming
taxes and fees, or employ a person in such foreign operation who
has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada
on the ground of personal unsuitability or who has been found
guilty of cheating at gambling.

The sale of alcoholic beverages by the licensed subsidiaries on
the casino premises and The Sands Expo Center is subject to
licensing, control, and regulation by the applicable local
authorities. Our licensed subsidiaries have obtained the
necessary liquor licenses to sale alcoholic beverages. All
licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies
involved have full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke
any such licenses, and any such disciplinary action could (and
revocation of such licenses would) have a material adverse
effect upon our operations.

Macao

We are subject to licensing and control under applicable Macao
law. We are required to be licensed by the Macao gaming
authorities to operate a casino. We must pay periodic fees and
taxes, and our gaming license is not transferable. We must
periodically submit detailed financial and operating reports to
the Macao gaming authorities and furnish any other information
that the Macao gaming authorities may require. No



person may acquire any rights over the shares or assets of our
subsidiary, VML, without first obtaining the approval of the
Macao gaming authorities. Similarly, no person may enter into
possession of its premises or operate them through a management
agreement or any other contract or through step in rights
without first obtaining the approval of, and receiving a license
from, the Macao gaming authorities. The transfer or creation of
encumbrances over ownership of shares representing the share
capital of VML or other rights relating to such shares, and any
act involving the granting of voting rights or other
stockholders’ rights to persons other than the original
owners, would require the approval of the Macao government and
the subsequent report of such acts and transactions to the Macao
gaming authorities.

Our subconcession agreement requires approval of the Macao
government for transfers of shares, or of any rights over such
shares, in any of the direct or indirect stockholders in VML,
including us, provided that such shares or rights are directly
or indirectly equivalent to an amount that is equal or higher
than 5% of the share capital in VML. This approval requirement
will not apply, however, if the securities are listed and
tradable on a stock market. In addition, this agreement requires
that the Macao government be given notice of the creation of any
encumbrance or the grant of voting rights or other
stockholder’s rights to persons other than the original
owners on shares in any of the direct or indirect stockholders
in VML, including us, provided that such shares or rights are
indirectly equivalent to an amount that is equal or higher than
5% of the share capital in VML. This notice requirement will not
apply, however, to securities listed and tradable on a stock
exchange.

The Macao gaming authorities may investigate any individual who
has a material relationship to, or material involvement with, us
to determine whether our suitability and/or financial capacity
is affected by this individual. Our shareholders with 5% or more
of the share capital, directors and some of our key employees
must apply for and undergo a finding of suitability process and
maintain due qualification during the subconcession term, and
accept the persistent and long-term inspection and supervision
exercised by the Macao government. VML is required to
immediately notify the Macao government should VML become aware
of any fact that may be material to the appropriate
qualification of any shareholder who owns 5% of the share
capital, or any director or key employee. Changes in licensed
positions must be reported to the Macao gaming authorities, and
in addition to their authority to deny an application for a
finding of suitability or licensure, the Macao gaming
authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in
corporate position. If the Macao gaming authorities were to find
one of our officers, directors or key employees unsuitable for
licensing, we would have to sever all relationships with that
person. In addition, the Macao gaming authorities may require us
to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file
appropriate applications.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
suitability after being ordered to do so by the Macao gaming
authorities may be found unsuitable. Any stockholder found
unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial
ownership of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond
the period of time prescribed by the Macao gaming authorities
may lose his rights to the shares. We will be subject to
disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is
unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship
with us, we:

The Macao gaming authorities also have the authority to approve
all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation
holding a gaming license.

The Macao gaming authorities also require prior approval for the
creation of liens and encumbrances over VML’s assets and
restrictions on stock in connection with any financing.

The Macao gaming authorities must give their prior approval to
changes in control of VML through a merger, consolidation, stock
or asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement or any
act or conduct



by any person whereby he or she obtains control. Entities
seeking to acquire control of a registered corporation must
satisfy the Macao gaming authorities concerning a variety of
stringent standards prior to assuming control. The Macao Gaming
Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers,
directors and other persons having a material relationship or
involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be
investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the
transaction.

The Macao gaming authorities may consider that some management
opposition to corporate acquisitions, repurchases of voting
securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Macao gaming
licensees, and registered corporations that are affiliated with
those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive
corporate gaming.

The Macao gaming authorities also have the power to supervise
gaming licensees in order to:

•

assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and
    their affiliates;

•

preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the
    corporate form; and

•

promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of
    corporate affairs.

The subconcession agreement requires the Macao gaming
authorities’ prior approval of any recapitalization plan
proposed by VML’s board of directors. The Chief Executive
of Macao could also require VML to increase its share capital if
he deemed it necessary.

Non-compliance with these obligations could lead to the
revocation of VML’s gaming subconcession.

The Sands Macao was constructed and is operated, and The
Venetian Macao Hotel Resort Casino will be constructed and
operated, under our subconcession agreement. This subconcession
excludes the following gaming activities: mutual bets, gaming
activities provided to the public, interactive gaming and games
of chance or other gaming, betting or gambling activities on
ships or planes. Our subconcession is exclusively governed by
Macao law. We are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the
courts of Macao in case of any potential dispute or conflict
relating to our subconcession.

Under the subconcession agreement, we are obligated to develop
and open The Venetian Macao and a convention center by
December 2007. We are also obligated to operate casino
games of chance or games of other forms in Macao and to invest,
or cause to be invested, at least 4.4 billion patacas
(approximately $527.4 million at exchange rates in effect
on December 31, 2005) in various development projects in
Macao by June 2009. We have been informed by the Macao
government that the construction and development costs of The
Sands Macao can be applied to the fulfillment of this total
investment obligation. As of December 31, 2005, we had
invested the required amounts. We are currently scheduled to
open The Venetian Macao in mid-2007. In addition, we are
building The Venetian Macao on land for which we have not yet
been granted a concession. If we do not obtain a land
concession, we could forfeit all or a part of our investment in
the site and in the construction of The Venetian Macao and would
not be able to open and operate that facility as planned. See
“Risk Factors — Risks Associated with Our
International Operations — We are constructing The
Venetian Macao on land for which we have not yet been granted a
concession. If we do not obtain a land concession, we could
forfeit all or a part of our investment in the site and
construction of The Venetian Macao and would not be able to open
and operate that facility as planned” and “Risk
Factors — Risks Associated with our International
Operations — We are required to build and open The
Venetian Macao and a convention center by December 2007. Unless
we meet this deadline or obtain an extension, we may lose our
right to continue to operate The Sands Macao or any other
facilities developed under the subconcession.”

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022.
Unless our subconcession is extended, on that date, all our
casino operations and related equipment in Macao will
automatically be transferred to the Macao government without
compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues
from these operations. Beginning on June 27, 2017, the
Macao government may redeem our subconcession by giving us at
least one year prior notice and by paying us fair compensation
or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will
be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during
the tax year prior to the redemption. See “Risk
Factors — Risks Associated with Our International
Operations — We will stop



generating any revenues from our Macao gaming operations if we
cannot secure an extension of our subconcession in 2022 or if
the Macao government exercises its redemption right in
2017.”

The Macao government also has the right, after consultation, to
unilaterally terminate, without compensation to us, the
subconcession at any time upon the occurrence of specified
events of default. See “Risk Factors — Risks
Associated with Our International Operations — The
Macao government can terminate our subconcession under certain
circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.” The subconcession agreement does
not provide a specific cure period within which any such events
of default may be cured. We must rely on consultations and
negotiations with the Macao government to give us an opportunity
to remedy any such default. Accordingly, we are dependent on our
continuing communications and good faith negotiations with the
Macao government to ensure that we are performing our
obligations under the subconcession in a manner that would avoid
a default thereunder.

The subconcession agreement contains various general covenants
and obligations and other provisions, the compliance with which
is subjective. We have the following obligations under the
subconcession agreement:

In addition, the subconcession agreement requires us to maintain
a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to satisfy these
requirements could result in a default under the subconcession.
We are also subject to certain reporting requirements in Macao,
including to the Macao Gambling Inspection and Coordination
Bureau.

Under the subconcession, we are obligated to pay to the Macao
government an annual premium with a fixed portion and a variable
portion based on the number and type of gaming tables employed
and gaming machines operated by us. The fixed portion of the
premium is equal to 30 million patacas (approximately
$3.6 million at exchange rates in effect on
December 31, 2005). The variable portion is equal to
300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for
certain kinds of games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming
table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical or
mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines
(approximately $35,959, $17,980 and $120, respectively, at
exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2005), subject to
a minimum of 45 million patacas (or $5.4 million at
exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2005). We also
have to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenues
and applicable withholding taxes. We must also contribute 4% of
our gross gaming revenue to utilities designated by the Macao
government, a portion of which must be used for promotion of
tourism in Macao. This percentage will be subject to change in
2010.

Currently, the gaming tax in Macao is calculated as a percentage
of gross gaming revenue. However, unlike Nevada, gross gaming
revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a
result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macao and are
unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we have
to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we
were unable to collect on the related receivables from them. We
are currently offering credit to customers in Macao on a very
limited basis. If the laws are not changed, our business in
Macao may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending
credit to our customers. Although there are proposals to revise
the gaming tax laws in Macao, there can be no assurance that the
laws will be changed.

We have received a concession from the Macao government to use a
six acre parcel of land for The Sands Macao. The land concession
will expire in 2028 and is renewable. The land concession
requires us to pay a premium which is payable over a number of
years. In addition, we are also obligated to pay rent annually
for



the term of the land concession. The rent amount may be revised
every five years by the Macao government. See the note entitled
“Commitments and Contingencies — Macao Casino
Projects” of our consolidated financial statements for more
information on our payment obligation under this concession.

We commenced construction of The Venetian Macao prior to
obtaining a land concession from the Macao government which
holds title to the land. We created the land from a shallow bay
using technology commonly used in Macao and surrounding areas
for such purposes and then commenced construction of The
Venetian Macao and related buildings on the new
“land.” We have applied to the Macao government for a
land concession for a portion of the west side of the Cotai
Strip, including the site of The Venetian Macao. The land
concession will require us to pay certain premiums and rent. We
are in negotiation with the Macao government over the cost of
the land concession. We believe we will be successful in
obtaining the land concession. However, in the event we are
unable to successfully conclude our negotiations with the Macao
government with regard to the land underlying The Venetian
Macao, we could lose all or a substantial part of our investment
in the creation of the land and in constructing The Venetian
Macao.

We have received an exemption from Macao’s corporate income
tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games of
chance for the five-year period ending December 31, 2008.
See “Risk Factors — Risks Associated with Our
International Operations — We are currently not
required to pay corporate income taxes on our casino gaming
operations in Macao. This tax exemption expires at the end of
2008 and may not be extended.”

Employees

We directly employ approximately 6,000 employees in connection
with The Venetian, approximately 130 employees in
connection with The Sands Expo Center and approximately 6,100
employees in connection with The Sands Macao. In addition, we
hire temporary employees on an as needed basis at The Venetian.
The Venetian’s employees are not covered by collective
bargaining agreements. Most, but not all, major casino resorts
situated on the Las Vegas Strip have collective bargaining
contracts covering at least some of the labor force at such
sites. We believe that we have good relations with our employees.

The unions currently on the Las Vegas Strip include Local 226 of
the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International
Union, the Operating Engineers Union and the Teamsters Union.
Local 226 has requested us to recognize it as the bargaining
agent for employees of The Venetian. We have declined to do so,
believing that current and future employees are entitled to
select their own bargaining agent, if any. In the past, when
other hotel-casino operators have taken a similar position,
Local 226 has engaged in certain confrontational and obstructive
tactics, including contacting potential customers, tenants, and
investors, objecting to various administrative approvals and
picketing. Local 226 has engaged in such tactics with respect to
The Venetian and may continue to do so. Although we believe we
will be able to operate despite such dispute, no assurance can
be given that we will be able to do so or that the failure to do
so would not result in a material adverse effect on our results
of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Although no
assurances can be given, if employees decide to be represented
by labor unions, management does not believe that such
representation would have a material impact upon our results of
operations, cash flows, or financial position.

We are not aware of any union activity at The Sands Macao.

Certain casual culinary personnel are hired from time to time
for trade shows and conventions at The Sands Expo Center and are
covered under a collective bargaining agreement between Local
226 and The Sands Expo Center. This collective bargaining
agreement expired in December 2000. As a result, The Sands Expo
Center is operating under the terms of the expired bargaining
agreement with respect to these employees.

Intellectual Property

Our principal intellectual property consists of, among others,
the “Sands,” “Venetian,” “Palazzo”
and “Paiza” trademarks, all of which have been
registered in the United States. In addition, we have also
applied to register the marks “Cotai Strip,”
“Macau Strip,” and “Asia’s Las Vegas,”
among others, in connection with



our development projects in Macao. These trademarks are brand
names under which we market our properties and services. We
consider these brand names to be important to our business since
they have the effect of developing brand identification. We
believe that the name recognition, reputation, and image that we
have developed attract customers to our facilities. Once
granted, our trademark registrations are of perpetual duration
so long as they are periodically renewed. It is our intent to
maintain our trademark registrations.

Agreements Relating to the Malls

The Grand Canal Shops Mall Sale and Lease Agreement

On April 12, 2004, we entered into an agreement with GGP to
sell The Grand Canal Shops mall and lease to GGP certain
restaurant and other retail space at the casino level of The
Venetian for approximately $766.0 million. We completed the
sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall on May 17, 2004. In
addition, on the same date we leased to GGP 19 spaces on the
casino level of The Venetian currently occupied by various
retail and restaurant tenants for 89 years with annual rent
of one dollar per year, and GGP assumed our interest as landlord
under the various space leases associated with these 19 spaces.
In addition, on the same date we agreed with GGP to:

The lease payments relating to the Blue Man Group Theater, the
canal space within The Grand Canal Shops mall and the office
space from GGP are subject to automatic increases of 5%
beginning on the sixth lease year and each subsequent fifth
lease year.

Development Agreement

Our Palazzo subsidiary and GGP entered into a development
agreement whereby the Palazzo subsidiary agreed to construct the
Phase II mall, and GGP agreed to buy 100% of the membership
interests in Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, which will own
the Phase II mall when it opens, at the price described
below. The Palazzo subsidiary has assigned substantially all of
its obligations under the development agreement to Phase II
Mall Holding, LLC but has agreed to remain jointly and severally
liable to GGP for all such obligations. The Palazzo subsidiary
agreed to substantially complete construction of the
Phase II mall (subject to

force majeure

and certain
other delays) no later than the earlier of:

•

36 months after the date when the Palazzo subsidiary
    receives sufficient permits to begin construction of the
    Phase II mall; and

•

March 1, 2008.

In the event that the Phase II mall is not substantially
completed on or before the stated date, GGP is entitled to
receive liquidated damages in the amount of $5,000 per day
for the first six months and $10,000 per day for an
additional six months after the completion deadline has passed.
If substantial completion has not occurred on or before one year
after the above deadline, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC and
the Palazzo subsidiary will be jointly and severally obligated
to pay GGP liquidated damages in the amount of $100 million.



In the event that Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, and the
Palazzo subsidiary comply with all of their obligations under
the development agreement and GGP fails to acquire the
membership interests in the entity owning the Phase II
mall, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC will be entitled to:

•

sue GGP for specific performance;

•

liquidated damages in the amount of $100 million; or

•

purchase the interest of GGP in The Grand Canal Shops mall for
    (a) the lesser of (i) $766.0 million and
    (ii) the fair market value minus
    (b) $100.0 million.

The purchase price that GGP has agreed to pay for the
Phase II mall is the greater of
(i) $250.0 million and (ii) the Phase II
mall’s net operating income for months 19 through 30 of its
operations (assuming that the rent due from all tenants in month
30 was actually due in each of months 19 through
30) divided by a capitalization rate. The capitalization
rate is .06 for every dollar of net operating income up to
$38 million and .08 for every dollar of net operating
income above $38 million. On the date the Phase II
mall opens to the public, GGP will be obligated to make an
initial purchase price payment based on projected net operating
income for the first 12 months of operations (but in no
event less than $250 million). Every six months thereafter
until the 24 month anniversary of the opening date, the
required purchase price will be adjusted (up or down, but never
to less than $250 million) based on projected net operating
income for the upcoming 12 months. The “final”
purchase price adjustment (subject to audit thereafter) will be
made on the

30-month

anniversary of the Phase II mall’s opening date and
will be based on the formula described in the first two
sentences of this paragraph. For all purchase price and purchase
price adjustment calculations, “net operating income”
will be calculated by using the “accrual” method of
accounting and, for purposes of calculating the final purchase
price adjustment, by applying the base rent payable by all
tenants in the last month of the applicable

12-month

period to the
entire

12-month

period.

Disputes under the development agreement will be resolved by
arbitration or an independent expert selected by the parties.

Cooperation Agreement

Our business plan calls for each of The Venetian, The Congress
Center, The Grand Canal Shops mall, The Sands Expo Center, The
Palazzo and the Phase II mall, though separately owned, to
be integrally related components of one facility. In
establishing the terms for the integrated operation of these
components, the cooperation agreement sets forth agreements
regarding, among other things, encroachments, easements,
operating standards, maintenance requirements, insurance
requirements, casualty and condemnation, joint marketing, the
construction of The Palazzo, and the sharing of some facilities
and related costs. Subject to applicable law, the cooperation
agreement binds all current and future owners of The Sands Expo
Center, The Venetian, The Grand Canal Shops mall, The Palazzo,
The Congress Center and the Phase II mall, and has priority
over the liens securing Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s amended and
restated senior secured credit facility (the “Senior
Secured Credit Facility”) and any liens securing any
indebtedness of The Grand Canal Shops mall, The Sands Expo
Center, The Palazzo or Phase II mall. Accordingly, subject
to applicable law, the obligations in the cooperation agreement
will “run with the land” if any of the components
change hands. Although certain of the provisions in the
cooperation agreement apply only to The Sands Expo Center, The
Venetian and The Grand Canal Shops mall, it is contemplated that
similar provisions will be added to the cooperation agreement
with respect to The Palazzo and the Phase II mall prior to their
opening.

Operating Covenants.

The cooperation agreement regulates
certain aspects of the operation of The Sands Expo Center, The
Grand Canal Shops mall and The Venetian. For example, under the
cooperation agreement, we are obligated to operate The Venetian
continuously and to use it exclusively in accordance with
standards of first-class Las Vegas Boulevard-style hotels
and casinos. We are also obligated to operate and to use The
Sands Expo Center exclusively in accordance with standards of
first-class convention, trade show and exposition centers. The
owner of The Grand Canal Shops mall is obligated to operate The
Grand Canal Shops mall exclusively in accordance with standards
of first-class restaurant and retail complexes. For so long as
The



Venetian is operated in accordance with a “Venetian”
theme, the owner of The Grand Canal Shops mall must operate The
Grand Canal Shops mall in accordance with the overall Venetian
theme.

Maintenance and Repair.

We must maintain The Venetian as
well as some common areas and common facilities that are to be
shared with The Grand Canal Shops mall. The cost of maintenance
of all shared common areas and common facilities is to be shared
between us and the owner of The Grand Canal Shops mall. We must
also maintain, repair, and restore The Sands Expo Center and
certain common areas and common facilities located in The Sands
Expo Center. The owner of The Grand Canal Shops mall must
maintain, repair, and restore The Grand Canal Shops mall and
certain common areas and common facilities located in The Grand
Canal Shops mall.

Insurance.

We and the owner of The Grand Canal Shops mall
must also maintain minimum types and levels of insurance,
including property damage, general liability, and business
interruption insurance. The cooperation agreement establishes an
insurance trustee to assist in the implementation of the
insurance requirements.

Parking.

The cooperation agreement also addresses issues
relating to the use of The Venetian’s parking facilities,
the use of parking facilities planned in connection with The
Palazzo and easements for access. The Venetian, The Grand Canal
Shops mall and The Sands Expo Center may use the parking spaces
in The Venetian’s parking garage on a “first come,
first served” basis, as long as each property retains use
of sufficient spaces to comply with specified minimum parking
standards. This means that each property shall have the right to
use, at a minimum, sufficient spaces to comply with applicable
laws and to conduct its business as permitted under the
cooperation agreement. The Venetian’s parking garage is
owned, maintained, and operated by us, with the proportionately
allocated operating costs billed to the owner of The Grand Canal
Shops mall. After the completion of the parking garage to be
built in connection with The Palazzo, The Venetian, The Grand
Canal Shops mall, The Sands Expo Center and, when completed, the
Phase II mall will have the right to use The Palazzo
parking garage, with the operating costs proportionately
allocated among each facility. Each party to the cooperation
agreement has granted to the others non-exclusive easements and
rights to use the roadways and walkways on each other’s
properties for vehicular and pedestrian access to the parking
garages.

Utility Easement.

All property owners have also granted
each other all appropriate and necessary easement rights to
utility lines servicing The Venetian, The Grand Canal Shops
mall, The Palazzo, the Phase II mall and the Sands Expo
Center.

Consents, Approvals and Disputes.

If any current or
future party to the cooperation agreement has a consent or
approval right or has discretion to act or refrain from acting,
the consent or approval of such party will only be granted and
action will be taken or not taken only if a commercially
reasonable owner would do so and such consent, approval, action
or inaction would not have a material adverse effect on the
property owned by such property owner. The cooperation agreement
provides for the appointment of an independent expert to resolve
some disputes between the parties, as well as for expedited
arbitration for other disputes.

Sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall by GGP.

Our consent is
required to any sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall by GGP or the
sale of certain ownership interests in The Grand Canal Shops
mall by GGP until the earlier to occur of the substantial
completion of The Palazzo and January 31, 2007. We have a
right of first offer, both before and after the dates set forth
in the previous sentence, in connection with a proposed sale of
The Grand Canal Shops mall by GGP. We also have the right to
receive notice of any default of GGP sent by its mortgagee, if
any, and the right to cure such default subject to our meeting
certain net worth tests.

HVAC Services Agreement and Related Documents

Sempra Energy Solutions is the heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning (“HVAC”) provider to The Venetian and The
Sands Expo Center. It is a California company and is a
subsidiary of Sempra Energy, a utility holding company. Thermal
energy (i.e., heating and air conditioning) is provided to The
Venetian and The Sands Expo Center by the HVAC provider using
certain heating and air conditioning-related and other equipment
(the “HVAC Equipment”). In addition, the HVAC provider
provides us with other energy-related



services. The central HVAC plant is located on land owned by us,
which land has been leased to the HVAC provider for a nominal
annual rent. The HVAC plant and equipment is owned by the HVAC
provider, and the HVAC provider has been granted appropriate
easements and other rights so as to be able to use the HVAC
plant and the HVAC equipment to supply thermal energy to The
Venetian (including The Grand Canal Shops mall) and The Sands
Expo Center (and, potentially, other buildings). The HVAC
provider paid all costs (“HVAC costs”) in connection
with the purchase and installation of the HVAC plant and
equipment, which costs totaled $70 million. The HVAC
provider has entered into separate service contracts
(collectively, the “HVAC service agreements”) with
Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group-Nevada, Inc.
(“Interface Group-Nevada”) and the owner of The Grand
Canal Shops mall, for the provision of heat and cooling
requirements at agreed-to rates. The charges payable by all
users include a fixed component that enables the HVAC provider
to recover 85% of the HVAC costs over the initial term of the
service contracts, with interest at a fixed annual rate of 7.1%.
In addition, the users reimburse the HVAC provider for the
annual cost of operating and maintaining the HVAC equipment and
providing certain other energy related services, and pay the
HVAC provider a management fee of $500,000 per year. Each
user is allocated a portion of the total agreed-to charges and
fees through its service contract, which portion includes paying
100% of the cost of services in connection with the HVAC
equipment relating solely to such user. Each user is not liable
for the obligations of the other users; provided, however, that
the owner of The Grand Canal Shops mall is liable for the
obligations of each mall tenant. The HVAC service agreements
expire in 2009, at which time the users will have the right, but
not the obligation, to collectively either extend the term of
their agreements for five years (with a second, additional
five-year renewal option) each or purchase the HVAC plant and
equipment in accordance with purchase provisions set forth in
the HVAC service agreements.

ITEM 1A. —

RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below
as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report
on Form

10-K

in
connection with evaluating the Company. Additional risks and
uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently
deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect
our business, financial condition, or results of operations.
Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are
forward-looking statements. See “Item 7 —
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations — Special
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”

Risks Related to Our Business

Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in
    discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the
    economy.

Consumer demand for hotel casino resorts, trade shows and
conventions and for the type of luxury amenities we offer is
particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy. Changes in
consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending brought
about by factors such as fears of war, future acts of terrorism,
general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears
of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy
could reduce customer demand for the luxury products and leisure
services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and
harming our operations.

Our business is sensitive to the willingness of our
    customers to travel. Acts of terrorism and developments in the
    conflict in Iraq could cause severe disruptions in air travel
    that reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting
    in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows.

We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel.
A substantial number of our customers for The Venetian use air
travel to come to Las Vegas. On September 11, 2001, acts of
terrorism occurred in New York City, Pennsylvania and
Washington, D.C. As a result of these terrorist acts,
domestic and international travel was severely disrupted, which
resulted in a decrease in customer visits to Las Vegas,
including to The Venetian and The Sands Expo Center. In
addition, developments in the conflict in Iraq could have a
similar effect on domestic and international travel. Most of our
customers travel to reach either The Venetian or The Sands
Macao. Only a small amount of our business is generated by local
residents. Management cannot predict the extent to which
disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any



further terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities or escalation of
war would adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

An outbreak of highly infectious disease could adversely
    affect the number of visitors to our facilities and disrupt our
    operations, resulting in a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.

In 2003, Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, Singapore and certain other
regions experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious
form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory
syndrome (“SARS”). As a result of the outbreak, there
was a decrease in travel to and from, and economic activity in,
affected regions, including Macao. In addition, there have been
recent fears concerning the spread of an “avian flu”
in Asia. Potential future outbreaks of SARS, avian flu or other
highly infectious diseases may adversely affect the number of
visitors to The Sands Macao, The Venetian, The Sands Expo Center
and other properties we are developing in Las Vegas or Macao and
our business and prospects. Furthermore, an outbreak might
disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business and could
generally disrupt our operations. If any of our customers or
employees is suspected of having contracted certain highly
contagious diseases, we may be required to quarantine these
customers or employees or the affected areas of our facilities
and temporarily suspend part or all of our operations at
affected facilities. Any new outbreak of such a highly
infectious disease could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

There are significant risks associated with our planned
    construction projects, which could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from
    these planned facilities.

Our ongoing and future construction projects, such as The
Palazzo and The Venetian Macao, entail significant risks.
Construction activity requires us to obtain qualified
contractors and subcontractors, the availability of which may be
uncertain. Construction projects are subject to cost overruns
and delays caused by events outside of our control or, in
certain cases, our contractors’ control, such as shortages
of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering,
environmental and /or geological problems, work stoppages,
weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and
unavailability of construction materials or equipment.
Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in
obtaining any of the requisite materials, licenses, permits,
allocations and authorizations from governmental or regulatory
authorities could increase the total cost, delay, jeopardize or
prevent the construction or opening of such projects or
otherwise affect the design and features of The Palazzo and The
Venetian Macao or other projects.

We have not entered into a fixed-price or guaranteed maximum
price contract with a single construction manager or general
contractor for the construction of The Palazzo or The Venetian
Macao. As a result, we will rely heavily on our in-house
development and construction team to manage construction costs
and coordinate the work of the various trade contractors. The
lack of any fixed-price contract with a construction manager or
general contractor will put more of the risk of cost-overruns on
us. If we are unable to manage costs or we are unable to raise
additional capital required to complete The Palazzo or The
Venetian Macao, we may not be able to open or complete these
projects, which may have an adverse impact on our business and
prospects for growth.

The anticipated costs and completion dates for The Palazzo and
The Venetian Macao are based on budgets, designs, development
and construction documents and schedule estimates that we have
prepared with the assistance of architects and that are subject
to change as the design, development and construction documents
are finalized and more actual construction work is performed. A
failure to complete The Palazzo or The Venetian Macao on budget
or on schedule may adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows. “— Risks
Associated with our International Operations — We are
required to build and open The Venetian Macao and a convention
center by December 2007. Unless we meet this deadline or obtain
an extension, we may lose our right to continue to operate The
Sands Macao or any other facilities developed under the
subconcession.”

We are finalizing commitments for a $2.5 billion facility
for the partial financing of The Sands Macao expansion, The
Venetian Macao and our other Cotai Strip developments, but we do
not yet have any



commitments for that financing. A significant portion of The
Sands Macao’s cash flows will also be used to finance the
construction of The Venetian Macao. If The Sands Macao’s
cash flows are not sufficient, or if this contemplated credit
facility is not obtained, additional equity or debt financings
may be needed to finance the remainder of the construction of
The Venetian Macao.

In addition, this credit facility will not cover all of the
costs of our other Cotai Strip developments. We have not yet
finalized our plans for all our Cotai Strip developments or our
estimate of the costs of all these developments. We expect that
the construction of the other Cotai Strip developments will
require significant additional debt and/or equity financings.
Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will obtain all the
financing required for the construction and opening of The Sands
Macao expansion, The Venetian Macao or our other Cotai Strip
developments.

In addition, the debt agreements into which Las Vegas Sands, LLC
and its subsidiaries have entered to fund the construction of
The Palazzo contain significant conditions that must be
satisfied in order for Las Vegas Sands, LLC and its
subsidiaries to be able to use the proceeds available under
these facilities, including:

•

having sufficient funds available so that construction costs of
    The Palazzo are “in balance” for purposes of the debt
    instruments;

•

obtaining various consents and other agreements from third
    parties, including trade contractors; and

•

other customary conditions.

The failure to obtain the necessary financing, or satisfy these
funding conditions, could adversely affect our ability to
construct The Palazzo, The Venetian Macao and our other planned
Cotai Strip developments.

Because we are currently dependent upon three properties
    in two markets for all of our cash flow, we will be subject to
    greater risks than a gaming company with more operating
    properties or that operates in more markets.

We currently do not have material assets or operations other
than The Venetian, The Sands Expo Center and The Sands Macao. As
a result, we will be entirely dependent upon these properties
for all of our cash flow until we complete the development of
other properties.

Given that our operations are currently conducted at two
properties in Las Vegas and one property in Macao and that a
large portion of our planned future development is in Las Vegas
and Macao, we will be subject to greater degrees of risk than a
gaming company with more operating properties in more markets.
The risks to which we will have a greater degree of exposure
include the following:

Our substantial debt could impair our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

We are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service
obligations. As of December 31, 2005, on a pro forma basis
assuming all of the $250.0 million Phase II mall
construction loan had been fully drawn, we would



have had approximately $1.85 billion of indebtedness
outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had
approximately $369.0 million of available borrowings under
the $450.0 million revolving credit facility of Las Vegas
Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility. We expect to
incur $2.5 billion of additional debt under a new credit
facility for the partial funding of The Sands Macao expansion
and the construction of The Venetian Macao and our other Cotai
Strip developments. Because a portion of The Sands Macao’s
cash flows is also expected to be used to finance the
construction of The Venetian Macao, we may need to incur
additional debt to finance The Venetian Macao if The Sands
Macao’s cash flows are not sufficient. In addition, we also
expect that our other Cotai Strip developments will be financed
in large part by additional debt. See “— There
are significant risks associated with our planned construction
projects, which could adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows from these planned
facilities.”

This substantial indebtedness could have important consequences
to us. For example, it could:

The terms of our debt instruments may restrict our current
    and future operations, particularly our ability to finance
    additional growth, respond to changes or take certain
    actions.

Our and our subsidiaries’ current debt instruments contain,
and any future debt instruments, including the debt instruments
for the financing of The Venetian Macao and our other Cotai
Strip developments, likely will contain, a number of restrictive
covenants that impose significant operating and financial
restrictions on us or our subsidiaries.

Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility
includes, and the proposed new credit facility for the
construction of The Venetian Macao is expected to include,
covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of Las
Vegas Sands, LLC or VML, respectively, to:



•

issue preferred stock; and

•

enter into transactions with our stockholders and our affiliates.

Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility also
includes financial covenants, including requirements that Las
Vegas Sands, LLC satisfy:

VML’s proposed new credit facility for the construction of
The Venetian Macao is also expected to include financial
covenants, including requirements that VML satisfy:

The indenture governing our $250.0 million in aggregate
principal amount of 6.375% senior notes also restricts,
among other things, our ability to incur liens and enter into
certain sale and lease-back transactions.

Our future debt or other contracts could contain financial or
other covenants more restrictive than those applicable under the
above instruments.

Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all
    possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition,
    our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to
    obtain the same insurance coverage in the future.

Although we have all-risk property insurance for The Venetian,
The Sands Expo Center and The Sands Macao covering damage caused
by a casualty loss (such as fire and natural disasters), each
such policy has certain exclusions. In addition, our property
insurance coverage for The Venetian and The Sands Expo Center is
in an amount that is significantly less than the expected
replacement cost of rebuilding the complex if there was a total
loss. Our level of insurance coverage for The Venetian and The
Sands Expo Center may not be adequate to cover all losses in the
event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events,
such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of
income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions
due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or
animal damage and pollution, might not be covered at all under
our policies. Therefore, certain acts could expose us to heavy,
uninsured losses.

We also have builder’s risk insurance for The Palazzo and
The Venetian Macao that provides coverage during their
construction for damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire
and natural disasters). In general, our builder’s risk
coverage is subject to the same exclusions, risks and
deficiencies as those described above for our all-risk property
coverage. Our level of builder’s risk insurance coverage
for The Palazzo and The Venetian Macao may not be adequate to
cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition,
delays occasioned by major casualty events may adversely affect
our ability to meet the deadlines imposed by the Macao
government to complete The Venetian Macao and the convention
center we are building in Macao. We are not insured against this
risk.

In addition, although we currently have insurance coverage for
occurrences of terrorist acts with respect to The Venetian, The
Sands Expo Center and The Sands Macao and for certain losses
that could result from these acts, our terrorism coverage is
subject to the same risks and deficiencies as those described
above for our all-risk property coverage. The lack of sufficient
insurance for these types of acts could expose us to heavy
losses in the event that any damages occur, directly or
indirectly, as a result of terrorist attacks or otherwise, which
could have a significant negative impact on our operations.



In addition to the damage caused to our property by a casualty
loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war or
terrorism), we may suffer business disruption as a result of
these events or be subject to claims by third parties injured or
harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and
general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate
to cover all losses in such event.

We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of
coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce
our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our
coverage. Among other factors, it is possible that the situation
in Iraq, homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events
or any change in government legislation governing insurance
coverage for acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect
available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on
available coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our
policy limits) and additional exclusions from coverage. Among
other potential future adverse changes, in the future we may
elect to not, or may not be able to, obtain any coverage for
losses due to acts of terrorism.

Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to
maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to
satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default
under these debt instruments or material agreements. See
“— Risks Associated with Our International
Operations — The Macao government can terminate our
subconcession under certain circumstances without compensation
to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.”

We depend on the continued services of key managers and
    employees. If we do not retain our key personnel or attract and
    retain other highly skilled employees, our business will
    suffer.

Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to
a large degree on the services of our senior management team,
including Mr. Adelson. Mr. Adelson, William P.
Weidner, Bradley H. Stone, Robert G. Goldstein, Scott D. Henry
and Bradley K. Serwin have each entered into employment
agreements. However, we cannot assure you that any of these
individuals will remain with us. We currently do not have a life
insurance policy on any of the members of the senior management
team. The death or loss of the services of any of our senior
managers or the inability to attract and retain additional
senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect
on our business.

We are controlled by a principal stockholder whose
    interest in our business may be different than yours.

Mr. Adelson and trusts for the benefit of Mr. Adelson
and/or his family members beneficially own approximately 86.0%
of our outstanding common stock. On February 14, 2006, we
filed a registration statement on
Form

S-1

for an
underwritten secondary stock offering of 55 million shares
by certain trusts for the benefit of Mr. Adelson and his
family. Mr. Adelson and trusts for the benefit of
Mr. Adelson and/or his family members will beneficially own
approximately 70.4% of our outstanding common stock following
the completion of the offering (excluding options and assuming
the underwriters do not exercise their option to purchase an
additional 8,250,000 shares of common stock). Accordingly,
Mr. Adelson exercises significant influence over our
business policies and affairs, including the composition of our
board of directors and any action requiring the approval of our
stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our
articles of incorporation and the approval of a merger or sale
of substantially all of our assets. The concentration of
ownership may also delay, defer or even prevent a change in
control of our company and may make some transactions more
difficult or impossible without the support of Mr. Adelson.
Because Mr. Adelson and trusts for the benefit of
Mr. Adelson and/or his family members own more than 50% of
the voting power of our company, we are considered a controlled
company under the New York Stock Exchange listing
standards. As such, the NYSE corporate governance requirements
that our board of directors and our compensation committee be
independent do not apply to us. As a result, the ability of our
independent directors to influence our business policies and
affairs may be reduced. The interests of Mr. Adelson may
conflict with your interests.



We are a parent company and our primary source of cash is
    and will be distributions from our subsidiaries.

We are a parent company with limited business operations of our
own. Our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We
conduct most of our business operations through our direct and
indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our primary sources of cash
are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership
interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings
and cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our
subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash
flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. Our
subsidiaries’ payments to us will be contingent upon their
earnings and upon other business considerations. In addition,
our subsidiaries’ debt instruments and other agreements,
including Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit
Facility, limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or
other distributions to us. We expect that the debt instruments
for the financing of The Venetian Macao and our other Cotai
Strip developments will contain similar restrictions.

We are currently in the development stage of several
    projects that are subject to a variety of contingencies that may
    ultimately prevent the realization of such plans.

We have several new projects in development, including building
and operating six casino resort developments on the Cotai Strip
in addition to The Venetian Macao. These projects are subject to
a number of contingencies. For example, we cannot assure you
that the Macao government will approve our master plan for the
development of those Cotai properties or that we will raise all
the financing required for the completion of these projects. See
“— There are significant risks associated with
our planned construction projects, which could adversely affect
our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows
from these planned facilities.” In addition, although we
expect that several of the hotel properties will be managed or
developed by third parties, we cannot assure you that we will
reach satisfactory agreements with third parties to manage or
develop these properties.

We are also exploring opportunities for casino gaming operations
in certain other domestic and foreign jurisdictions, such as
Singapore, the United Kingdom and Pennsylvania (where we are
participating in a joint venture to develop a gaming and retail
complex in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania). We are also exploring the
development of a leisure and convention destination resort on
Hengqin Island in China. In a number of jurisdictions, such as
the United Kingdom, Singapore and Pennsylvania, current laws do
not permit unlimited licenses for casino gaming of the type we
propose to develop and we are competing for a limited number of
available licenses. These projects are subject to a number of
contingencies, including, but not limited to, adverse
developments in applicable legislation, our ability to procure
necessary governmental licenses and/or approvals, our ability to
reach satisfactory, final agreements with necessary third
parties or meet the conditions provided for thereunder, and our
ability to raise sufficient financing to fund such projects. In
addition, luxury casino resort projects require substantial
amounts of capital.

As a result, our various plans for the development of our
operations may not ultimately be realized as currently planned,
or at all. Even if we are successful in launching any of these
ventures, we cannot assure you that any of these projects would
be successful, or that their operations would not have a
material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.



Risks Associated with Our Las Vegas Operations

We face significant competition in Las Vegas which could
    materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows. Some of our competitors have
    substantially greater resources and access to capital than we
    have and several of them are expanding or renovating their
    facilities. In addition, any significant downturn in the trade
    show and convention business would significantly and adversely
    affect our mid-week occupancy rates and business.

The hotel, resort and casino business in Las Vegas is highly
competitive. The Venetian competes with a large number of major
hotel-casinos and a number of smaller casinos located on and
near the Las Vegas Strip and in and near Las Vegas. Competitors
of The Venetian include major resorts on the Las Vegas Strip,
such as the Wynn Las Vegas Resort, the Bellagio, the Mandalay
Bay Resort & Casino and Paris Las Vegas. We also
compete, to some extent, with other hotel-casino facilities in
Nevada and in Atlantic City, as well as hotel-casinos and other
resort facilities and vacation destinations elsewhere in the
United States and around the world. Many of our competitors are
subsidiaries or divisions of large public companies and may have
greater financial and other resources than we have. In
particular, the recent merger of Mandalay Resort Group with MGM
Mirage and the recent acquisition of Caesar’s Entertainment
Inc. by Harrah’s Entertainment created the world’s two
largest gaming companies.

According to the LVCVA, there were approximately 133,186 hotel
and motel rooms in Las Vegas as of December 31, 2005.
Various competitors on the Las Vegas Strip are expanding and
renovating their existing facilities. For example, Wynn Resorts
Limited has recently announced plans to add a second hotel tower
at the Wynn Las Vegas Resort which is expected to include
approximately 2,000 rooms, consisting of approximately 150
suites and approximately 1,850 guest rooms and additional
casino, retail and convention space that is expected to open in
the second half of 2008. In addition, a renovation and
rebranding of the approximately 2,600-room Aladdin is
expected to be completed in October 2006. MGM Mirage has also
recently announced plans to develop and build a multi-billion
dollar urban complex known as Project CityCenter consisting of
hotels and condominium towers, and casino and retail, dining and
entertainment venues. The first phase of Project CityCenter, is
expected to open in 2009. Boyd Gaming Corporation also recently
announced plans to develop Echelon Place, a four hotel complex
occupying 63 acres on the Las Vegas Strip and containing
5,300 guest rooms and suites. The development is scheduled
to open in 2010. A newly formed company, Fontainebleau Resorts,
also plans to build a 4,000-room hotel and casino on the north
end of the Las Vegas Strip. This project is expected to open in
2008. If demand for hotel rooms does not keep up with the
increase in the number of hotel rooms, competitive pressures may
cause reductions in average room rates.

We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on
Native American tribal lands. Native American tribes in
California are permitted to operate casinos with video gaming
machines, black jack and house-banked card games. The governor
of California has entered into compacts with numerous tribes in
California and has announced the execution of a number of new
compacts with no limits on the number of gaming machines (which
had been limited under the prior compacts). The federal
government has approved numerous compacts in California and
casino-style gaming is now legal on those tribal lands. While
the competitive impact on our operations in Las Vegas from the
continued growth of Native American gaming establishments in
California remains uncertain, the proliferation of gaming in
California and other areas located near The Venetian could have
an adverse effect on our results of operations.

In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may
legalize, casino gaming in specific areas, including
metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract
customers, such as New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco and
Boston. In October 2001, the New York legislature approved a
bill for expanded casino gaming on Native American reservations
and video lottery terminals at certain race tracks. In 2003 and
2004, Maine and Pennsylvania, respectively, approved legislation
legalizing slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices at
certain locations, although such legislation has not been
implemented yet. A number of states have permitted or are
considering permitting gaming at “racinos,” on Native
American reservations and through expansion of state lotteries.
The current global trend toward liberalization of gaming
restrictions and resulting proliferation of gaming venues could
result in a decrease in the number of visitors to our Las Vegas



facilities by attracting customers close to home and away from
Las Vegas, which could adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

As a result of the large number of trade shows and conventions
held in Las Vegas, The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center
provide recurring demand for mid-week room nights for business
travelers who attend these events. The attendance level at the
trade shows and conventions that we host contributes to our
higher-than-average mid-week occupancy rates. The Sands Expo
Center and The Congress Center presently compete with other
large convention centers, including convention centers in Las
Vegas and other cities. Competition will be increasing for The
Congress Center and The Sands Expo Center as a result of planned
additional convention and meeting facilities, as well as the
enhancement or expansion of existing convention and meeting
facilities, in Las Vegas. The LVCC, an approximately
3.2 million square foot convention and exhibition space
facility, and the Mandalay Bay Convention Center, an
approximately 1.8 million square foot convention center,
will continue to be major competitors of The Sands Expo Center
and will be able to solely host many large trade shows which had
previously split space between the LVCC and The Sands Expo
Center. In February 2006, the LVCVA approved an approximately
$737 million project to expand and upgrade the LVCC, which
is expected to be completed in 2010. In addition, Boyd Gaming
Corporation’s Echelon Place is expected to include
approximately 1.0 million square feet of convention and
meeting space when it opens in 2010. Moreover, management
anticipates increased competition from the MGM Grand Hotel and
Casino and the Mirage, which have significant conference and
meeting facilities. Also, cities such as Boston, Orlando and
Pittsburgh are in the process of developing, or have announced
plans to develop, convention centers and other meeting, trade
and exhibition facilities that may materially adversely affect
us. To the extent that these competitors are able to capture a
substantially larger portion of the trade show and convention
business, there could be a material adverse impact on our
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

The loss of our gaming license or our failure to comply
    with the extensive regulations that govern our operations could
    have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

Our gaming operations and the ownership of our securities are
subject to extensive regulation by the Nevada Gaming Commission,
the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Clark County
Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board. These gaming authorities have
broad authority with respect to licensing and registration of
our business entities and individuals investing in or otherwise
involved with us.

Although we currently are registered with, and Las Vegas Sands,
LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC currently hold gaming
licenses issued by, the Nevada gaming authorities, these
authorities may, among other things, revoke the gaming license
of any corporate entity or the registration of a registered
corporation or any entity registered as a holding company of a
corporate licensee for violations of gaming regulations.

In addition, the Nevada gaming authorities may, under certain
conditions, revoke the license or finding of suitability of any
officer, director, controlling person, stockholder, noteholder
or key employee of a licensed or registered entity. If our
gaming licenses were revoked for any reason, the Nevada gaming
authorities could require the closing of the casino, which would
have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition,
compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations or
licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or
licenses applicable to our business or gaming licenses could
require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

The Nevada State Gaming Control Board investigates or reviews
the records of gaming companies for compliance with gaming
regulations as part of its regular oversight functions.

For a more complete description of the gaming regulatory
requirements affecting our business, see
“Item 1 — Business — Regulation
and Licensing.”



Certain beneficial owners of our voting securities may be
    required to file an application with, and be investigated by,
    the Nevada gaming authorities, and the Nevada Gaming Commission
    may restrict the ability of a beneficial owner to receive any
    benefit from our voting securities and may require the
    disposition of shares of our voting securities, if a beneficial
    owner is found to be unsuitable.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% of
our voting securities will be required to apply to the Nevada
Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within
30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming
Control Board mails a written notice requiring the filing. Under
certain circumstances, an “institutional investor” as
defined under the regulations of the Nevada Gaming Commission,
which acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% but not
more than 15% of our voting securities, may apply to the Nevada
Gaming Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability
requirement if the institutional investor holds our voting
securities only for investment purposes. In addition, any
beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the
number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the
discretion of the Nevada Gaming Commission to file an
application for a finding of suitability as such. In either
case, a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing and
the applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by
the Nevada gaming authorities in conducting the investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
suitability as a beneficial owner of our voting securities
within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada
gaming authorities may be found unsuitable. Any stockholder
found unsuitable by the Nevada Gaming Commission to be a
beneficial owner of our voting securities and who continues to
hold, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership of our voting
securities beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the
Nevada Gaming Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We
will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive
notice that a person is unsuitable to be a beneficial owner of
our voting securities or to have any other relationship with us
or a licensed subsidiary, we or any of the licensed subsidiaries:

For a more complete description of the Nevada gaming regulatory
requirements applicable to beneficial owners of our voting
securities, see “Item 1 —
Business — Regulation and Licensing — State
of Nevada.”

The construction and operation of The Palazzo could have
    an adverse effect on The Venetian.

We have commenced construction on The Palazzo, which will
consist of a hotel, casino, restaurant, dining and entertainment
complex, and meeting and conference center space on an
approximately 14 acre site adjacent to The Venetian.
Although we intend to construct The Palazzo with minimal impact
on The Venetian, we cannot guarantee that the construction will
not disrupt the operations of The Venetian or that it will be
implemented as planned. Therefore, the construction of The
Palazzo may adversely impact the businesses, operations and
revenues of The Venetian. We also cannot assure you that The
Palazzo will be as financially successful as The Venetian. If
demand for the additional hotel rooms at The Palazzo is not
strong, the lack of demand may adversely affect the occupancy
rates and room rates realized by us. In addition, because the
business concept for The Palazzo is very similar to that of The
Venetian, there may not be enough demand to fill the combined
hotel room capacity of The Palazzo and The Venetian.



Our failure to substantially complete construction of the
    Phase II mall by an agreed-upon deadline will result in our
    having to pay substantial liquidated damages and cause an event
    of default under our debt instruments.

Under our agreement with GGP, we have agreed to substantially
complete construction of the Phase II mall before the
earlier of 36 months after the date on which sufficient
permits are received to begin construction of the Phase II
mall and March 1, 2008. These dates may be extended due to
force majeure or certain other delays. In the event that we do
not substantially complete construction of the Phase II
mall on or before the earlier of these two dates (as these dates
may be extended as described in the preceding sentence), we must
pay liquidated damages of $5,000 per day, for up to six
months, until substantial completion (increasing to
$10,000 per day, for up to the next six months, if
substantial completion does not occur by the end of six months
after the completion deadline). If substantial completion has
not occurred on or before one year after the deadline, we will
be required to pay total liquidated damages in the amount of
$100.0 million. In addition, failure to substantially
complete construction of the Phase II mall by the
agreed-upon deadline would constitute an event of default under
Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility and
related disbursement agreement.

If we are unable to maintain an acceptable working
    relationship with GGP and/or if GGP breaches any of its material
    agreements with us, there could be a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

We have entered into agreements with GGP under which, among
other things:

Each of the above-described agreements with GGP could be
adversely affected in ways that could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows if we do not maintain an acceptable working relationship
with GGP. For example:

There could be similar material adverse consequences to us if
GGP breaches any of its agreements to us, such as its agreement
to purchase the Phase II mall from us, its agreement under
the cooperation agreement to operate The Grand Canal Shops mall
consistent with the standards of first-class restaurant and
retail complexes and the overall Venetian theme, and its various
obligations as our landlord under the leases described above.
Although the various agreements with GGP do provide us with
various remedies in the event



of any breaches by GGP and also include various
dispute-resolution procedures and mechanisms, these remedies,
procedures and mechanisms may be inadequate to prevent a
material adverse effect on our operations and financial
condition if breaches by GGP occur or if we do not maintain an
acceptable working relationship with GGP.

We extend credit to a large portion of our customers, and
    we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit
    players.

We conduct our gaming activities on a credit basis as well as a
cash basis. This credit is unsecured. Table games players
typically are extended more credit than slot players, and
high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than
patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more
volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss
results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or
negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular
quarter.

At The Venetian, credit play is significant while at The Sands
Macao table games play is primarily cash play. We extend credit
to those customers whose level of play and financial resources
warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit.
For the year ended December 31, 2005, our table games drop at
The Venetian was approximately 60.9% from credit-based guest
wagering. The default rate on credit extended to our table
gaming customers at The Venetian was approximately 0.43% of the
total amount of credit for the three years ended
December 31, 2005. In the past, individual gaming
receivables have ranged as high as $10.0 million for a
single player. These large receivables could have a significant
impact on our operating results if deemed uncollectible.

While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including
what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” and
judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws
of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable
in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the
U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that
enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although
courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts
directly and the assets in the United States of foreign
debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on
gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts
of many foreign nations.

Risks Associated with Our International Operations

Conducting business in Macao has certain political and
    economic risks which may affect the financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows of our Asian operations.

We currently own and operate a casino in Macao and are
developing and plan to operate one or more hotels, additional
casinos and convention centers in Macao, including The Venetian
Macao. Accordingly, our business development plans, financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially
and adversely affected by significant political, social and
economic developments in Macao and throughout the rest of China
and by changes in policies of the government or changes in laws
and regulations or the interpretations thereof. Our operations
in Macao are also exposed to the risk of changes in laws and
policies that govern operations of Macao-based companies. Tax
laws and regulations may also be subject to amendment or
different interpretation and implementation, thereby adversely
affecting our profitability after tax. Further, the percentage
of our gross gaming revenues that we must contribute annually to
the Macao authorities is subject to change in 2010. These
changes may have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

As we expect a significant number of consumers to come to The
Sands Macao and The Venetian Macao from China, general economic
conditions and policies in China could have a significant impact
on our financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or
reversal of China’s current policies of liberalizing
restrictions on travel and currency movements could adversely
impact the number of visitors from China to our Macao properties
as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino.

Current Macao laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming
concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is
little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and
regulations. We believe that



our organizational structure and operations are in compliance in
all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations
of Macao. However, these laws and regulations are complex and a
court or an administrative or regulatory body may in the future
render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue
regulations, that differ from our interpretation, which could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

In addition, our activities in Macao are subject to
administrative review and approval by various agencies of the
Macao government. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
obtain all necessary approvals, which may materially affect our
long-term business strategy and operations. Macao law permits
redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions.
However, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming
issues.

We are required to build and open The Venetian Macao and a
    convention center by December 2007. Unless we meet this deadline
    or obtain an extension, we may lose our right to continue to
    operate The Sands Macao or any other facilities developed under
    the subconcession.

Under our subconcession agreement, we are obligated to develop
and open The Venetian Macao and a convention center by December
2007. Construction of The Venetian Macao is subject to
significant development and construction risks, including
construction, equipment and staffing problems or delays and
difficulties in obtaining required materials, licenses, permits
and authorizations from governmental regulatory authorities, not
all of which have been obtained. Construction projects are
subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events not within
our control or, in certain cases, our contractors’ control,
such as shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen
engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work
stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases
and unavailability of construction materials or equipment. We
currently have no commitment for the financing of The Venetian
Macao or our other Cotai Strip developments. In addition, our
ability to incur additional debt or to make investments in the
entity constructing The Venetian Macao is limited under the
terms of the debt instruments of Las Vegas Sands LLC and may
prevent us from fulfilling our construction obligations. See
“— Risks Related to Our Business — The
terms of our debt instruments may restrict our current and
future operations, particularly our ability to finance
additional growth, respond to changes or take some actions”
and “— Risks Related to Our Business —
There are significant risks associated with our planned
construction projects, which could adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from
these planned facilities.” We are currently scheduled to
open The Venetian Macao in mid-2007. We have recently received
an extension of the original completion deadline from the Macao
authorities. Although we believe that we will be able to
complete these projects by the December 2007 deadline or obtain
another extension of the deadline, if we fail to do so, the
Macao government has the right, after consultation with our
concessionaire, Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate our
subconcession to operate The Sands Macao or any of our other
casino operations in Macao, without compensation to us. The loss
of our subconcession would prohibit us from conducting gaming
operations in Macao, which could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations and financial condition.

We are constructing The Venetian Macao on land for which
    we have not yet been granted a concession. If we do not obtain a
    land concession, we could forfeit all or a part of our
    investment in the site and construction of The Venetian Macao
    and would not be able to open and operate that facility as
    planned.

Land concessions in Macao generally have terms of 25 years,
with automatic extensions of 10 years thereafter and there
are common formulas generally used to determine the cost of
these land concessions. We have not yet obtained a land
concession from the Macao government for the site of The
Venetian Macao (which we are currently constructing) and the
Four Season hotel. We are currently in the process of
negotiating with the Macao government to obtain the land
concession. We believe that the delay in obtaining this land
concession is due to the fact that we have not yet submitted to
the Macao government complete detailed plans for the development
of all portions of this site. Although there can be no
certainty, we expect to finalize our negotiations with the
government and obtain a land concession for the site of The
Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons soon after we finalize and
submit to the Macao government our development plans for the
entire site.



If we do not obtain a land concession for the site of The
Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons hotel, we will not be able
to open and operate these projects. We have made significant
investments in building the site for, and in constructing, The
Venetian Macao and could lose all or a substantial part of this
investment if we do not obtain a land concession. We also cannot
assure you that we will obtain a land concession on favorable
economic terms or at all.

The Macao government can terminate our subconcession under
    certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

The Macao government has the right, after consultation with
Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate our subconcession in the event
of serious non-compliance by VML with its basic obligations
under the subconcession and applicable Macao laws. The following
reasons for termination are included in the subconcession:

These events could lead to the termination of our subconcession
without compensation to us regardless of whether they occurred
with respect to us or with respect to our affiliates who will
operate our Macao properties. Upon such termination, all of our
casino gaming operations and related equipment in Macao would be
automatically transferred to the Macao government without
compensation to us and we would cease to generate any revenues
from these operations. In many of these instances, the
subconcession agreement does not provide a specific cure period
within which any such events may be cured and, instead, we would
rely on consultations and negotiations with the Macao government
to give us an opportunity to remedy any such default. In
addition, the subconcession agreement contains various general
covenants and obligations and other provisions, the
determination as to compliance with which is subjective. We
cannot assure you that we will perform such covenants in a way
that satisfies the requirements of the Macao government and,
accordingly, we will be dependent on our continuing
communications and good faith negotiations with the Macao
government to ensure that we are performing our obligations
under the subconcession in a manner that would avoid a default
thereunder.



Our subconcession also allows the Macao government to request
various changes in the plans and specifications of our Macao
properties and to make various other decisions and
determinations that may be binding on us. For example, the Macao
government has the right to require that we contribute
additional capital to our Macao subsidiaries or that we provide
certain deposits or other guarantees of performance in any
amount determined by the Macao government to be necessary. VML
is limited in its ability to raise additional capital by the
need to first obtain the approval of the Macao gaming and
governmental authorities before raising certain debt or equity.
As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply
with these requirements or any other requirements of the Macao
government or with the other requirements and obligations
imposed by our subconcession.

Furthermore, pursuant to the subconcession agreement, we are
obligated to comply not only with the terms of that agreement,
but also with laws and regulations that the Macao government
might promulgate in the future. We cannot assure you that we
will be able to comply with any such order or that any such
order would not adversely affect our ability to construct or
operate our Macao properties. If any disagreement arises between
us and the Macao government regarding the interpretation of, or
our compliance with, a provision of the subconcession agreement,
we will be relying on the consultation process with the
applicable Macao governmental agency described above. During any
such consultation, however, we will be obligated to comply with
the terms of the subconcession agreement as interpreted by the
Macao government.

Our failure to comply with the terms of our subconcession in a
manner satisfactory to the Macao government could result in the
termination of our subconcession. Under our subconcession, we
would not be compensated if the Macao government decided to
terminate the subconcession because of our failure to perform.
The loss of our subconcession would prohibit us from conducting
gaming operations in Macao, which could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.

We will stop generating any revenues from our Macao gaming
    operations if we cannot secure an extension of our subconcession
    in 2022 or if the Macao government exercises its redemption
    right in 2017.

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022.
Unless our subconcession is extended, on that date, all of our
casino operations and related equipment in Macao will be
automatically transferred to the Macao government without
compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues
from these operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the
Macao government may redeem the subconcession agreement by
providing us at least one year prior notice. In the event the
Macao government exercises this redemption right, we are
entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such
compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount
of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the
redemption. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew
or extend our subconcession agreement on terms favorable to us
or at all. We also cannot assure you that if our subconcession
is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to
compensate us for the loss of future revenues.

Our Macao operations face intense competition, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

The hotel, resort and casino businesses are highly competitive.
Our Macao operations currently compete with numerous other
casinos located in Macao. In addition, we expect competition to
increase in the near future from local and foreign casino
operators. SJM, which currently operates 16 gaming facilities in
Macao, had a commitment to invest at least 4.7 billion
patacas (approximately $563.4 million at exchange rates in
effect on December 31, 2005) in gaming, entertainment and
related projects in Macao by March 31, 2009. These projects
include the upgrade of the Lisboa Hotel, Macao’s largest
hotel with approximately 1,000 rooms, the Fisherman’s
Wharf entertainment complex, which opened on December 31,
2005, and a potential new casino hotel project. SJM also
announced the construction of Oceanus, an $800.0 million
casino complex near the ferry terminal in Macao, scheduled to
open in 2009. According to press reports, Melco International
Development, a company managed by Lawrence Ho (the son of
SJM’s Managing Director Stanley Ho), has entered into an
agreement with Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd.,
Australia’s biggest casino owner, under which Publishing
and Broadcasting Ltd. will own a minority stake in Stanley
Ho’s Park Hyatt hotel and casino development in Macao.
Melco has also announced a $1.0 billion “City of
Dreams” project,



which will include casino, hotel, retail, entertainment and
apartment space adjacent to the Cotai Strip and is scheduled to
open in 2008. In addition, MGM Mirage has entered into a joint
venture agreement with Stanley Ho’s daughter, Pansy Ho
Chiu-king, to develop, build and operate a major hotel-casino
resort in Macao. In April 2005, MGM Mirage obtained a
subconcession allowing it to conduct gaming operations in Macao.
Construction on the MGM Grand Macao, which is estimated to cost
approximately $1.0 billion, began in the second quarter of
2005 and the resort is scheduled to open in the second half of
2007.

In addition, Wynn Macau, a subsidiary of our competitor, Wynn
Resorts, Limited, a Las Vegas casino operator, has also received
a concession from the Macao government, which requires it to
construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in
Macao, including a full-service casino resort by the end of
2006, and to invest at least 4.0 billion patacas
(approximately $479.5 million at exchange rates in effect
on December 31, 2005) in Macao-related projects by
June 27, 2009. Wynn Macau is constructing a facility that
is expected to open in fall 2006 and will include an
approximately 600-room hotel, a casino and other non-gaming
amenities. Wynn Macau recently announced plans to expand the
property to include additional gaming space. The expansion is
scheduled to open by the third quarter of 2007. The estimated
cost of the project, including the expansion, is approximately
$1.1 billion. Wynn Macau also has announced plans to build
up to three resorts on the Cotai Strip but has not yet publicly
provided details of these proposed projects. SJM competes, and
Wynn Macau will compete, directly with our Macao operations.

Under its concession, Galaxy is also obligated to invest
4.4 billion patacas (approximately $527.4 million at
exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2005) in
development projects in Macao by June 2012. Galaxy currently
operates one small casino in Macao.

We will also compete to some extent with casinos located
elsewhere in Asia, such as Malaysia’s Genting Highlands, as
well as gaming venues in Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere in
the world, including Las Vegas. In addition, certain
countries have legalized, and others may in the future legalize,
casino gaming, including Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan, Taiwan and
Thailand. We also expect competition from cruise ships operating
out of Hong Kong and other areas of Asia that offer gaming. The
proliferation of gaming venues in Southeast Asia could
significantly and adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

The Macao government could grant additional rights to
    conduct gaming in the future, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

We hold a subconcession under one of only three gaming
concessions authorized by the Macao government to operate
casinos in Macao. The Macao government is precluded from
granting any additional gaming concessions until 2009. However,
we cannot assure you that the laws will not change and permit
the Macao government to grant additional gaming concessions
before 2009. In addition, the Macao government may permit
existing concessionaires to grant subconcessions. In April 2005,
MGM Mirage’s joint venture obtained a subconcession under
SJM’s existing concession allowing it to conduct gaming
operations in Macao. If the Macao government were to allow
additional competitors to operate in Macao through the grant of
additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face
additional competition, which could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.

We may not be able to attract and retain professional
    staff necessary for our existing and future properties in
    Macao.

Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract,
retain, train, manage and motivate skilled employees. There is
significant competition in Macao for employees with the skills
required to perform the services we offer and competition for
such persons is likely to increase. There can be no assurance
that a sufficient number of skilled employees will continue to
be available, or that we will be successful in training,
retaining and motivating current or future employees. If we are
unable to attract, retain and train skilled employees, our
ability to adequately manage and staff our existing and planned
casino and resort properties in Macao could be impaired, which
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.



We are dependent upon gaming junket operators for a
    significant portion of our gaming revenues in Macao.

Junket operators, who organize tours, or junkets, for high
roller customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant
portion of our gaming revenues in Macao. With the rise in gaming
in Macao, the competition for relationships with junket
operators has increased. While we are undertaking initiatives to
strengthen our relationships with our current junket operators,
there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain, or
grow, our relationships with junket operators. If we are unable
to maintain or grow our relationships with junket operators, our
ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered and we will
have to seek alternative ways to develop relationships with high
roller customers, which may not be as profitable as our junket
programs.

In addition, the quality of junket operators is important to our
reputation and our ability to continue to operate in compliance
with our gaming licenses. While we strive for excellence in our
associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that
the junket operators with whom we are associated will meet the
high standards we insist upon. If a junket operator falls below
our standards, we may suffer reputational harm, as well as
worsening relationships with, and possibly sanctions from,
gaming regulators with authority over our operations.

Our business could be adversely affected by the
    limitations of the pataca exchange markets and restrictions on
    the export of the renminbi.

Our revenues in Macao are denominated in patacas, the legal
currency of Macao, and Hong Kong dollars. Although currently
permitted, we cannot assure you that patacas will continue to be
freely exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Also, because the
currency market for patacas is relatively small and undeveloped,
our ability to convert large amounts of patacas into
U.S. dollars over a relatively short period may be limited.
As a result, we may experience difficulty in converting patacas
into U.S. dollars.

We are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in renminbi,
the currency of China. There are currently restrictions on the
export of the renminbi outside of mainland China, including to
Macao. Restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the
flow of gaming customers from China to Macao, inhibit the growth
of gaming in Macao and negatively impact our gaming operations.

On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced
that the renminbi will no longer be pegged to the
U.S. dollar, but will be allowed to float in a band (and,
to a limited extent, increase in value) against a basket of
foreign currencies. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong
dollar. Certain Asian countries have publicly asserted their
desire to eliminate the peg of the Hong Kong dollar to the
U.S. dollar. As a result, we cannot assure you that the
Hong Kong dollar and the Macao pataca will continue to be pegged
to the U.S. dollar or that the current peg rate for these
currencies will remain at the same level. The floating of the
renminbi and possible changes to the peg of the Hong Kong dollar
may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these
currencies. Any change in such exchange rates could have a
material adverse effect on our ability to make payments on
certain of our debt instruments. We do not currently hedge for
foreign currency risk.

Certain gaming laws apply to our planned gaming activities
    and associations in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan
    to operate.

Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to our gaming activities
and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of Nevada.
We are required to comply with certain reporting requirements
concerning our proposed gaming activities and associations
occurring outside the State of Nevada, including Macao and other
jurisdictions. We will also be subject to disciplinary action by
the Nevada Gaming Commission if we:

•

knowingly violate any laws of the foreign jurisdiction
    pertaining to the foreign gaming operation;

•

fail to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with
    the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming
    operations;



•

engage in any activity or enter into any association that is
    unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the
    control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect
    discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in
    Nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of Nevada;

•

engage in any activity or enter into any association that
    interferes with the ability of the State of Nevada to collect
    gaming taxes and fees; or

•

employ, contract with or associate with any person in the
    foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a
    finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal
    unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at
    gambling.

In addition, if the Nevada State Gaming Control Board determines
that one of our actual or intended activities or associations in
a foreign gaming operation may violate one or more of the
foregoing, we can be required by it to file an application with
the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability of
such activity or association. If the Nevada Gaming Commission
finds that the activity or association in the foreign gaming
operation is unsuitable or prohibited, we will either be
required to terminate the activity or association, or will be
prohibited from undertaking the activity or association.
Consequently, should the Nevada Gaming Commission find that our
gaming activities or associations in Macao or certain other
jurisdictions where we operate are unsuitable, we may be
prohibited from undertaking our planned gaming activities or
associations in those jurisdictions.

The Macao gaming authorities exercise similar powers for
purposes of assessing suitability in relation to our activities
in jurisdictions outside of Macao.

We may not be able to monetize some of our real estate
    assets.

Part of our business strategy in Macao relies upon our ability
to profitably operate and/or sell certain of our real estate
assets once developed, including vacation suites and retail
malls, and to use the proceeds of these operations and sales to
refinance in part our construction loans for these assets, as
well as to provide investment capital for additional development
both in Macao and elsewhere. Our ability to sell these assets
will be subject to market conditions, the receipt of necessary
government approvals and other factors. If we are unable to
profitably operate and/or monetize these real estate assets, we
will have to seek alternative sources of capital to refinance in
part our construction loans and for other investment capital.
These alternative sources of capital may not be available on
commercially reasonable terms or at all.

VML may have financial and other obligations to foreign
    workers hired by its contractors under government labor
    quotas.

The Macao government has granted VML a quota to permit it to
hire foreign workers. VML has effectively allocated this quota
to its contractors for the construction of The Venetian Macao
and other projects on the Cotai Strip. VML, however, remains
ultimately liable for all employer obligations relating to these
employees, including for payment of wages and taxes and
compliance with labor and workers’ compensation laws. VML
requires each contractor to whom it has allocated part of its
labor quota to indemnify VML for any costs or liabilities VML
incurs as a result of such contractor’s failure to fulfill
employer obligations. VML’s agreements with its contractors
also contain provisions that permit it to retain some payments
for up to one year after the contractors complete work on the
projects. We cannot assure you that VML’s contractors will
fulfill their obligations to employees hired under the labor
quotas or to VML under the indemnification agreements, or that
the amount of any indemnification will be sufficient to pay for
any obligations VML may owe to employees hired by contractors
under VML’s quotas. Until we make final payments to our
contractors, we have offset rights to collect amounts they may
owe us, including amounts owed under the indemnities relating to
employer obligations. After we have made the final payments, it
may be more difficult for us to enforce any unpaid indemnity
obligations.



The transportation infrastructure in Macao may need to be
    expanded to meet increased visitation in Macao.

Macao is in the process of expanding its transportation
infrastructure to service the increased number of visitors to
Macao. If the planned expansions of transportation facilities to
and from Macao are delayed or not completed, and Macao’s
transportation infrastructure is insufficient to meet the
demands of an increased volume of visitors to Macao, the
desirability of Macao as a gaming and tourist destination, as
well as the results of operations of our Macao properties, could
be negatively impacted.

We are currently not required to pay corporate income
    taxes on our casino gaming operations in Macao. This tax
    exemption expires at the end of 2008 and may not be
    extended.

We have had the benefit of a corporate tax holiday in Macao,
effective May 18, 2004, which exempts us from paying
corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of
casino games. We will continue to benefit from this tax
exemption through the end of 2008. We cannot assure you that
this tax exemption will be extended beyond the expiration date
and we do not expect this tax exemption to apply to our
non-gaming activities once The Venetian Macao and our other
Cotai Strip properties open.

Macao is susceptible to severe typhoons that may disrupt
    operations.

Macao is susceptible to severe typhoons. Macao consists of a
peninsula and two islands off the coast of mainland China. On
some occasions, typhoons have caused a considerable amount of
damage to Macao’s infrastructure and economy. In the event
of a major typhoon or other natural disaster in Macao, our
business may be severely disrupted and our results of operations
could be adversely affected. Although we have insurance coverage
with respect to these events, we cannot assure you that our
coverage will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against all
direct and indirect costs, including loss of business, that
could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete
destruction of, our Macao properties or other damage to the
infrastructure or economy of Macao.

ITEM 1B. —

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. —

PROPERTIES

We own an approximately 60 acre parcel of land on which The
Venetian and The Sands Expo Center sit and on which The Palazzo
is being constructed. We own this parcel of land in fee simple,
subject to certain easements, encroachments and other
non-monetary encumbrances and the security interests described
below.

Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility is,
subject to certain exceptions, secured by a first priority
security interest (subject to permitted liens) in substantially
all of Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s property. The Phase II
mall construction loan is secured by first priority security
interests in substantially all of the assets of Phase II
Mall Subsidiary, LLC and Phase II Mall Holding, LLC. The
Interface mortgage loan is secured by a first priority mortgage
on The Sands Expo Center and by certain other related collateral.

We have received a concession from the Macao government to use a
six acre land site for The Sands Macao. We do not own the land
site in Macao. However, the land concession, which will expire
in 2028 and is renewable, grants us exclusive use of the land.
The land concession requires us to pay a premium which is
payable over a number of years. In addition, we are also
obligated to pay rent annually for the term of the land
concession. The rent amount may be revised every five years by
the Macao government. See the note entitled “Commitments
and Contingencies — Macao Casino Projects” of our
consolidated financial statements for more information on our
payment obligation under this land concession.

We commenced construction of The Venetian Macao prior to
obtaining a land concession from the Macao government which
holds title to the land. We created the land from a shallow bay
using technology commonly used in Macao and surrounding areas
for these purposes and then commenced construction of The
Venetian Macao and related buildings on the new
“land.” We have applied to the Macao government for a



land concession for a portion of the west side of the Cotai
Strip, including the site of The Venetian Macao. The land
concession will require us to pay certain premiums and rent. We
are in negotiation with the Macao government over the cost of
the land concession. We believe we will be successful in
obtaining the land concession. However, in the event we are
unable to successfully conclude our negotiations with the Macao
government with regard to the land underlying The Venetian
Macao, we could lose all or a substantial part of our investment
in the creation of the land and in constructing The Venetian
Macao.

ITEM 3. —

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In addition to the matters described below, we are party to
various legal matters and claims arising in the ordinary course
of business. We do not expect that the final resolution of these
ordinary course matters will have a material adverse impact on
our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Construction
Litigation

The construction of the principal components of The Venetian was
undertaken by Lehrer McGovern Bovis, Inc. (“Bovis”)
pursuant to a construction management agreement. Bovis’
obligations were guaranteed by its corporate parent companies.
In 1999, Venetian Casino Resort, LLC filed a complaint against
Bovis in the United States District Court for the District of
Nevada relating to the construction of The Venetian. In
response, Bovis filed a complaint against Venetian Casino
Resort, LLC in the District Court of Clark County, Nevada (the
“State Court Action”). Commencing in 2000, the Company
participated with Bovis in certain arbitration proceedings
ordered by the federal court. Pursuant to an agreement between
the parties, certain claims brought by Bovis relating to
infrastructure for The Palazzo, which is currently under
construction (the “Lido Claims”), were severed from
the State Court Action and have been settled as discussed below.

We purchased an insurance policy for loss coverage in connection
with all litigation relating to the construction of The Venetian
(the “Insurance Policy”). Under the Insurance Policy,
we self-insured the first $45.0 million of covered losses
(excluding defense costs) and the insurance company (the
“Insurer”) insured defense costs and other covered
losses up to the next $80.0 million. The principal
exclusions from coverage under the Insurance Policy are lien
claims of Bovis’ subcontractors directly against the
Company (“Direct Claims”) and the Lido Claims.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, we paid
$13.5 million and $5.8 million to resolve the Lido
Claims and three Direct Claims, respectively, parts of which
were applied to the $45.0 million self-insured retention
amount. In addition, we entered into a global settlement (the
“Agreement”) with Bovis and the Insurer. Pursuant to
the Agreement, Bovis has released us from further liability to
it in the litigation in exchange for certain payments described
below. In addition, the Insurer agreed to indemnify us from
further liability for ongoing Direct Claims, except as described
below in connection with claims under the Owner Controlled
Insurance Program (“OCIP”) for the project.

Pursuant to the Agreement we paid $30.7 million, which
represents the balance of our self-insured retention under the
Insurance Policy, in part to Bovis and in part to a Bovis
subcontractor to resolve that subcontractor’s Direct Claim.
We have no further liabilities in connection with the matter,
except as described below with regard to the OCIP claims.

Pursuant to the Agreement, we assigned most of our rights to its
remaining construction defect claims against Bovis’
subcontractors to the Insurer and the Insurer agreed to
indemnify us and hold us harmless from all remaining exposure
from outstanding Direct Claims, except for certain exposures
which might be created in connection with the OCIP claims as
described below. We also agreed to dismiss our construction
defect claims against Bovis. In addition, we agreed with the
Insurer that the Insurance Policy would be deemed satisfied and
terminated upon the satisfaction of certain conditions relating
to the formal dismissals of the various matters covered by the
settlement.

Under the Agreement, we retained the right to bring claims
against certain Bovis subcontractors for amounts owed to us for
our provision of insurance coverage to those subcontractors on
the project through the OCIP. Neither Bovis nor the Insurer have
indemnified us if a subcontractor against which we bring an



OCIP claim counter-claims against us in response. We have
not decided at this time whether to bring any OCIP claims,
however we believe any OCIP related counter-claim exposure will
not be material.

The various dismissals required by the Agreement will be filed
with the appropriate courts soon and should become final during
the first quarter 2006.

Litigation Relating to Macao Operations

On October 15, 2004, Richard Suen and Round Square Company
Limited filed an action against Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
Vegas Sands Inc., Sheldon G. Adelson, and William P. Weidner in
the District Court of Clark County, Nevada, asserting a breach
of an alleged agreement to pay a success fee of
$5.0 million and 2.0% of the net profit from our Macao
resort operations to the plaintiffs as well as other related
claims. In March 2005, Las Vegas Sands Corp. was dismissed as a
party without prejudice based on a stipulation to do so between
the parties. On May 17, 2005, the plaintiffs filed an
amended complaint. The defendants responded with a motion to
dismiss for failure to state a claim upon which relief can be
granted. On August 23, 2005, the court postponed ruling on
the motion to dismiss and allowed for limited discovery in order
to address defendant’s assertion that plaintiffs cannot
plead fraud with sufficient particularity. A hearing on the
motion to dismiss has been scheduled for March  6,
2006. Other than the motion to dismiss, there is currently no
pending activity in the matter. This action is in a preliminary
stage and our legal counsel has advised that based on
proceedings to date, the probability of recovery by the
plaintiffs is remote. We intend to defend this matter vigorously.

On January 26, 2006, Clive Basset Jones, Darryl Steven
Turok a/k/a Dax Turok, and Cheong Jose Vai Chi a/k/a Cliff
Cheong, filed an action against Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas
Sands, LLC, Venetian Venture Development, LLC and various
unspecified individuals and companies in the District Court of
Clark County, Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of an
agreement to pay a success fee in an amount equal to 5% of the
ownership interest in the entity that owns and operates the
Macau SAR gaming concession as well as other related claims.
Other than the complaint which has been filed, and our answer,
there is currently no pending activity in the matter. This
action is in a preliminary stage and our legal counsel has
advised that based on proceedings to date, the probability of
recovery by the plaintiffs is remote. We intend to defend this
matter vigorously.

Interface Nevada Litigation

On October 17, 2003, Bear Stearns Funding, Inc. filed a
lawsuit against our subsidiary, Interface Group-Nevada, the
Company’s subsidiary that owns The Sands Expo Center. The
plaintiff is seeking damages against Interface Group-Nevada for
alleged breach of contract in the amount of approximately
$1.5 million, plus interest and costs. The claim asserts
that the amount is due as an agreed-upon additional fee in
connection with Interface Group-Nevada’s prior
$141.0 million mortgage loan, which was paid off in July
2004. Interface Group-Nevada has asserted six counter-claims
against the plaintiff. The counterclaims against Bear Stearns
allege that Bear Stearns’ sale of a subordinated component
of the loan to a competitor constituted a breach of the loan
agreement and a related agreement, that its transmission of
information in connection with that sale constituted a
misappropriation of Interface Group-Nevada’s trade secrets,
and that it misrepresented to Interface Group-Nevada certain
facts regarding the purchaser of the subordinated component. The
counterclaims also allege that the Bear Stearns’ demand
that Interface Group-Nevada purchase insurance not required by
the loan agreement was motivated by Bear Stearns’ exclusion
from participating in another financing, and that this action
constituted a prima facie tort under New York law, and together
with the other actions alleged in the counterclaims, constituted
a breach of Bear Stearns’ duty of good faith and fair
dealing. The counterclaims sought damages in an amount to be
determined at trial but not less than $1.5 million, plus
punitive damages of not less than $3.0 million on the fraud
and prima facie tort causes of action. Plaintiff filed a motion
for summary judgment on the complaint seeking (i) judgment
on the complaint in the approximate amount of $1.5 million
plus interest, costs and attorneys fees, and (ii) dismissal
of the counterclaims other than the two breach of contract
counterclaims (the “Motion”). By Opinion and Order
dated March 21, 2005, the Motion was denied in part and
granted in part. The Court denied Bear Stearns’ motion for
judgment on the complaint, granted Bear Stearns’ motion to
dismiss the counterclaims



alleging misappropriation of trade secrets, prima facie tort,
and fraud, and granted the request to dismiss one of the two
bases of the counterclaim alleging a breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing. This matter is now in the discovery
phase. Interface Group-Nevada and its legal counsel are
currently not able to determine the probability of the outcome
of these matters.

Shareholder Derivative Litigation

Two shareholder derivative complaints, brought by plaintiffs
Lily Walker and James Roberts, Jr., were filed in the
District Court, Clark County, Nevada in August 2005 against Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (as a nominal defendant) and several of its
officers and directors, including Sheldon G. Adelson, Irwin
Chafetz, Charles D. Forman, Robert G. Goldstein, Michael A.
Leven, James J. Purcell, Irwin A. Siegel, Bradley H. Stone, and
William P. Weidner. The two actions were consolidated under the
lead case, and are now captioned

“In re Las Vegas Sands
Corp. Shareholder Litigation”

Case No. A507820.
The consolidated complaint alleges breach of fiduciary duty and
unjust enrichment causes of action, including that the
compensation paid to certain of the Company’s officers
pursuant to their employment and other agreements was excessive,
and that the approval of this compensation by certain directors
was improper. The individual defendants filed a motion to
dismiss the allegations of the consolidated complaint for
failure to state a claim in October 2005, to which the Company
filed a joinder. Following a hearing on that motion, the court
dismissed the complaint on January 30, 2006 ending the
matter.

Other Litigation

The Company is involved in other litigation arising in the
normal course of business. Management has made certain estimates
for potential litigation costs based upon consultation with
legal counsel. Actual results could differ from these estimates;
however, in the opinion of management, such litigation and
claims will not have a material effect on the Company’s
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

ITEM 4. —

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.



PART II

ITEM 5. —

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
    STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
    SECURITIES

Market Information

The Company’s common stock began trading on the NYSE on
December 14, 2004 under the symbol “LVS.” The
following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for the
common stock on the NYSE for the fiscal quarter indicated.

As of February 24, 2006, there were 354,303,160 shares
of our common stock issued and outstanding that were held by 135
stockholders of record.

Dividends

We have not declared or paid any dividends since our formation
in August 2004. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common
stock in the future. We expect to retain our future earnings, if
any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Our
board of directors will determine whether to pay dividends in
the future based on conditions then existing, including our
earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, as well
as economic and other conditions our board may deem relevant.

Our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock is
subject to the requirements of Nevada law. In addition, we are a
parent company with limited business operations of our own.
Accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and
distributions with respect to our ownership interest in our
subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow
generated by our operating properties.

Our subsidiaries’ long-term debt arrangements place
material restrictions on those companies’ ability to pay
cash dividends to the Company. This will restrict our ability to
pay cash dividends other than from cash on hand. See
“Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Liquidity and Capital
Resources — Restrictions on Distributions” and
“Item 8 — Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data — Notes to Financial
Statements — Note 7 — Long-Term
Debt.”

In 2004, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. declared and paid
$107.9 million of dividends as tax distributions to all of
its stockholders at the time, including its principal
stockholder. In 2004, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. also declared a
$21.1 million dividend to its stockholders which dividend
was paid in January 2005. These tax distributions were made in
order to provide these stockholders with funds to pay taxes
attributable to taxable income of Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
(including taxable income of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. associated
with the sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall) that flowed through
to them by virtue of Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s status as a
subchapter S corporation for income tax purposes. As a
result of its conversion to a taxable “C” corporation
for income tax purposes, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (now known as Las
Vegas Sands, LLC) is no longer making these tax distributions.



Immediately prior to the July 29, 2004 acquisition of
Interface Group Holding Company, Inc. (“Interface
Holding”) by Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Interface Holding
distributed approximately $15.2 million to its sole
stockholder. The distribution was comprised of
$12.9 million of cash, $1.9 million of receivables due
from the principal stockholder of Interface Holding and
$.4 million of certain fixed and other assets.

Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities

There has not been any sales of equity securities in the last
fiscal year that have not been registered under the Securities
Act of 1933.

Uses of Proceeds from Registered Securities

During the first quarter of 2005, we used $327.3 million of
the approximately $738.7 million in net proceeds from our
initial public offering to redeem approximately
$291.1 million in principal amount of the 11% mortgage
notes issued by Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Venetian Casino
Resort, LLC and to pay $36.2 million in related premiums
and accrued interest and expenses. During the second quarter of
2005 we used $70.0 million of the net proceeds to redeem
the VML senior secured notes. None of the amounts paid to redeem
the 11% mortgage notes or the VML senior secured notes were paid
to our directors, officers, general partners or their
associates, to persons owning 10% or more of our equity
securities or to our affiliates. In addition, during 2005, we
used approximately $149.4 million (net of interest income)
of the net proceeds for other general corporate purposes.



ITEM 6. —

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The historical selected financial data set forth below should be
read in conjunction with “Item 7 —
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual
Report on
Form

10-K.

The
statements of operations and cash flow data for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and the balance sheet
data at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are derived from, and
are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated
financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

The
statements of operations and cash flow data for the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001 and the balance sheet data at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 are derived from the
Company’s audited consolidated financial statements that do
not appear herein. The balance sheet data at December 31,
2001 is derived from the Company’s unaudited consolidated
financial information. The historical results are not
necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be
expected in the future.

At December 31,






(In thousands)

BALANCE SHEET DATA

Total assets

$

3,879,739

$

3,601,478

$

1,917,035

$

1,606,762

$

1,363,555

Long-term debt

$

1,625,901

$

1,485,064

$

1,525,116

$

1,343,762

$

945,431

Stockholders’ equity

$

1,609,538

$

1,316,001

$

162,108

$

100,384

$

112,187



ITEM 7. —

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
    CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and
is qualified in its entirety by, the audited consolidated
financial statements, and the notes thereto and other financial
information included in this
Form

10-K.

Certain
statements in this “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
are forward-looking statements. See “— Special
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”

General

We own and operate The Venetian and The Sands Expo Center in Las
Vegas, Nevada and The Sands Macao in Macao, China. We are also
developing two other casino resorts: The Palazzo, which will be
adjacent to and connected with The Venetian, and The Venetian
Macao in Macao, China as well as additional projects on the
Cotai Strip in Macao.

We currently offer hotel, gaming, dining, entertainment, retail,
spa and other amenities at The Venetian, convention and trade
show space at The Sands Expo Center and gaming, dining and VIP
suites at The Sands Macao. Approximately 43.7% of our gross
revenue at The Venetian in 2005 was derived from gaming and
37.9% was derived from hotel rooms. The percentage of gaming
revenue for The Venetian reflects the resort’s emphasis on
the group convention and trade show business and the resulting
higher occupancy and room rates during mid-week periods.
Approximately 95.7% of The Sands Macao’s gross revenue in
2005 was derived from gaming activities with the remainder
primarily derived from food and beverage services.

Las Vegas Projects

The Palazzo is currently under construction and is expected to
open during the summer of 2007. The cost of The Palazzo could
reach as high as $1.8 billion (exclusive of land), of which
the Phase II mall is expected to cost approximately
$280.0 million (exclusive of certain incentive payments to
executives made in July 2004). In addition, we expect tenants
will make significant additional capital expenditures to build
out stores and restaurants in The Palazzo. On August 20,
2004, we entered into a $1.0 billion senior secured credit
facility (the “Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility”)
to, among other things, finance The Palazzo’s



construction costs. On February 22, 2005, we entered into
the Senior Secured Credit Facility, which amended and restated
the Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility and increased the size
of the facility to $1.6 billion. In addition, on
September 30, 2004, we entered into a $250.0 million
Phase II Mall Construction Loan to fund a portion of the
Phase II mall construction costs. See
“— Aggregate Indebtedness and Contractual
Obligations.” We intend to use $361.8 million (plus
the interest earnings) of the proceeds from the
$970.0 million Term B Facility and $200.0 million from
the Term B Delayed Draw Facility from the Senior Secured Credit
Facility, $221.5 million of proceeds from the Phase II
Mall Construction Loan, cash on hand, borrowings under the
Revolving Facility under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and
operating cash flow to fund the development and construction
costs for The Palazzo (including the Phase II mall) and to
pay related fees and expenses.

Macao Projects

We are building The Venetian Macao, a 3,000 all-suites hotel,
casino and convention center complex, with a Venetian-style
theme similar to that of our Las Vegas property. Under our
gaming subconcession in Macao, we are obligated to develop and
open The Venetian Macao and a convention center by December
2007. We are also obligated to invest at least 4.4 billion
patacas (approximately $527.4 million at exchange rates in
effect on December 31, 2005) in various development
projects in Macao by June 2009. As of December 31, 2005, we
had spent more than the required minimum amount. We currently
expect to open The Venetian Macao in mid-2007. If we fail to
meet the December 2007 deadline we could lose our right to
continue to operate The Sands Macao or any other facilities
development under our Macao gaming subconcession and our
investment to date in The Venetian Macao could be lost. In
addition, we are constructing The Venetian Macao on land for
which we have not yet been granted a concession. If we do not
obtain a land concession, we could forfeit all or a part of our
investment in the site and construction of The Venetian Macao
and would not be able to open and operate that facility as
planned.

In addition, we broke ground in October 2005 on an expansion of
The Sands Macao that will enhance the size and scope of the
property and increase gaming capacity by more than 65.0%.
Construction of The Venetian Macao and the expansion of The
Sands Macao is progressing according to plan. In connection with
the development of The Venetian Macao, we are sponsoring a
master plan for the development of multiple properties on the
Cotai Strip. We have submitted development plans to the Macao
government for six casino-resort developments in addition to The
Venetian Macao on an area of approximately 200 acres on the
Cotai Strip. The developments are expected to include hotels,
exhibition and conference facilities, casinos, showrooms,
shopping malls, spas, world-class restaurants and entertainment
facilities and other attractions, as well as common public
areas. We plan to own and operate all of the casinos in these
developments under our Macao gaming subconcession.

We intend to develop the other Cotai Strip developments as
follows:

•

One of them is intended to be a Four Seasons hotel and casino
    which will be adjacent to The Venetian Macao and is expected to
    be a boutique hotel with 400 luxury hotel rooms, up to 600 Four
    Seasons-serviced vacation suites, distinctive dining
    experiences, full service spas and other amenities, a 25,000
    square foot casino and a 190,000 square foot mall with upscale
    retail offerings. We will own the hotel and vacation suites. We
    have entered into an exclusive nonbinding letter of intent and
    are currently negotiating definitive agreements under which Four
    Seasons Hotels Inc. will manage the hotel and vacation suites.
    The completion of The Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons is not
    dependent upon the Macao government’s overall approval of
    our Cotai Strip master development plan.

•

One of them is intended to include a two hotel complex with
    1,500 luxury and mid-sized hotel rooms, luxury vacation suites
    and a casino. We will own the entire development, and we have
    entered into a management agreement with Shangri-La Hotels and
    Resorts to manage the hotels and vacation suites under its
    Shangri-La and Traders brands.



•

One of them is intended to include a two-hotel complex with
    luxury and mid-sized hotel rooms, luxury vacation suites and a
    casino. We will own the entire development, and we are
    negotiating with Starwood Hotel and Resorts to manage the hotels
    and vacation suites under its brands.

•

We expect to develop and own two other Cotai Strip developments,
    each of which is intended to include a two-hotel complex with
    luxury and mid-sized hotel rooms, luxury vacation suites and a
    casino. We will own the entire development and are in
    discussions with experienced and well-known hotel management
    companies to manage the hotel portions of these resorts for us
    under their brands.

•

We have signed a non-binding memorandum of agreement with an
    independent developer for another Cotai Strip Development. We
    are currently negotiating definitive agreements pursuant to
    which we plan to partner with this developer to build a
    multi-hotel complex under several hotel brands.

We do not yet have all the Macao government approvals that we
will need in order to develop the Cotai Strip developments.

We expect to make land premium payments relating to The Venetian
Macao and other Macao properties under development in amounts to
be determined. We currently estimate that the cost for The
Venetian Macao will be approximately $2.3 billion
(exclusive of land) and the cost for The Sands Macao expansion
will be approximately $99.0 million. VML is finalizing
commitments for a $2.5 billion senior secured credit
facility to partially fund The Sands Macao expansion and the
design, development, construction and pre-opening costs for The
Venetian Macao, the Four Seasons Hotel and our other development
projects on the Cotai Strip, and to pay related fees and
expenses. We have not yet finalized our estimate of the cost of
our other Cotai Strip developments; however we will need to
arrange additional debt financing to finance those costs as well.

The Grand Canal Shops

On April 12, 2004, we sold The Grand Canal Shops mall and
leased certain restaurant and other retail assets of The
Venetian for approximately $766.0 million. As required by
generally accepted accounting principles, we deferred a portion
of the gain from the sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall. First,
we deferred $109.2 million of the gain from the transaction
deemed prepaid operating lease payments, which related to
19 spaces currently occupied by various tenants and which
we leased to GGP, the purchaser of The Grand Canal Shops mall,
for an annual rent of one dollar per year under an

89-year

operating
lease. GGP assumed, and is entitled to rent payments under, the
tenant leases for these 19 spaces. This deferred amount is
amortized over the

89-year

lease term on a
straight-line basis. Second, we deferred $77.2 million,
which constitutes the estimated net present value of payments we
make to GGP under three lease back arrangements. This deferred
gain will be amortized to reduce lease expense on a
straight-line basis over the life of the leases.

We are party to two tenant lease termination and asset purchase
agreements. As of December 31, 2005, the total remaining
payment obligations under these arrangements was
$11.9 million.

In connection with the sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall, we
entered into an agreement with GGP to construct and sell the
Phase II mall. The purchase price that GGP has agreed to
pay for the Phase II mall is the greater of
(i) $250.0 million and (ii) the Phase II
mall’s net operating income for months 19 through 30 of its
operations divided by a capitalization rate. The capitalization
rate is 6.0% up to $38.0 million of net operating income
and 8.0% above $38.0 million.

Interface Holding Acquisition

On July 29, 2004, we acquired all of the capital stock of
Interface Holding from our principal stockholder in exchange for
220,370 shares of common stock (58,625,638 shares of
our common stock after the parent company merger as defined in
“— Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions”). At the time of the acquisition, Interface
Holding indirectly owned The Sands Expo Center and directly held
a redeemable preferred interest in Venetian Casino Resort, LLC,
which had a balance of $255.2 million as of July 29,
2004.



We ceased accrual of the redeemable preferred return as of
July 29, 2004 and cancelled the redeemable preferred
interest in February 2005. Following this acquisition in 2004,
we made an equity contribution of approximately
$27.0 million to Interface Group-Nevada, the direct owner
of The Sands Expo Center. On July 30, 2004, Interface
Group-Nevada entered into a $100.0 million mortgage loan
and used proceeds from the loan and a portion of the equity
contribution to repay in full the amounts outstanding under its
$124.3 million prior mortgage loan and to pay related fees
and expenses.

Other Development Projects

Following the Singapore government’s adoption of gaming
legislation in 2005, we submitted a proposal to the Singapore
government for a license to develop a large integrated resort,
including a casino, in Singapore. There are currently three
competing proposals for this resort/casino license. The
Singapore government is expected to award this license in
mid-2006.

We have entered into a non-binding agreement with the Zhuhai
Municipal People’s Government of the People’s Republic
of China to work with it to create a master plan for, and
develop, a leisure and convention destination resort on Hengqin
Island, located approximately one mile from the Cotai Strip. We
are actively preparing preliminary design concepts for
presentation to the government. This development is subject to a
number of conditions, including receiving further governmental
approvals.

On December 3, 2004, following the enactment of legislation
legalizing slot machine gaming in Pennsylvania, we entered into
a contribution agreement with Bethworks Now, LLC, the owner of
an approximately 124 acre site located in Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania. We have submitted a proposal to obtain one of two
“at large” gaming licenses available in Pennsylvania.
There are several competing proposals for these licenses. If a
slot machine license under the new legislation is granted for
the site, we intend to jointly own and develop the property for
use as a casino complex including a hotel with meeting rooms and
retail, restaurant, movie theater, office and other commercial
spaces. The Bethlehem development is subject to a number of
conditions, including obtaining the gaming license.

We have also entered into agreements to develop and lease gaming
and entertainment facilities with two prominent football clubs
in the United Kingdom and are in discussions with several others
to build entertainment and gaming facilities in major cities in
the United Kingdom. There are several competing proposals for
the single “regional” casino license currently
authorized by statute. Our agreements to develop and lease
gaming and entertainment facilities are subject to a number of
conditions, including obtaining a gaming license.

We are currently exploring the possibility of operating casino
resorts in additional Asian jurisdictions, the United States and
Europe.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires our management to make
estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing
basis, management evaluates those estimates, including those
related to allowance for doubtful accounts and discounts,
accruals for slot marketing points, self-insurance and
litigation, asset impairment, and income taxes. We state these
accounting policies in the notes to the consolidated financial
statements and in relevant sections in this discussion and
analysis. These estimates are based on historical information,
information that is currently available to us and on various
other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable
under the circumstances. Actual results could vary from those
estimates and we may change our estimates and assumptions in
future evaluations. Changes in these estimates and assumptions
may have a material effect on our results of operations and
financial condition. We believe that the critical accounting
policies discussed below affect our more significant judgments
and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated
financial statements.



Allowance for Doubtful Accounts and Discounts

We maintain an allowance, or reserve, for doubtful accounts and
discounts at our operating casino resorts, The Venetian and The
Sands Macao. The provision for doubtful accounts, an operating
expense, increases the allowance for doubtful accounts and
discounts, while specific write-offs decrease the allowance for
doubtful accounts and discounts. We regularly evaluate the
allowance for doubtful accounts and discounts. At The Venetian,
where credit or marker play is significant, we apply standard
reserve percentages to aged account balances under a specified
dollar amount and specifically analyze the collectibility of
each account with a balance over the specified dollar amount,
based upon the age of the account, the customer’s financial
condition, collection history and any other known information.
We also monitor regional and global economic conditions and
forecasts to determine if reserve levels are adequate. At The
Sands Macao, where credit or marker play is not significant, we
apply a standard reserve percentage to aged account balances.
The mix of credit play as a percentage of total casino play has
decreased significantly during 2005 because The Sands Macao
table games play is primarily cash play, while The Venetian
credit table games play represents approximately 60.9% of total
table games play. Our allowance for doubtful accounts and
discounts was $49.0 million, $34.5 million and
$30.2 million or 36.6%, 37.9% and 35.7% of gross accounts
receivable for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and
2003.

Self-Insurance and Slot Club Point Accruals

We maintain accruals for health and workers compensation
self-insurance and slot club point redemption, which are
classified in other accrued liabilities in the consolidated
balance sheets. We determine the adequacy of these accruals by
periodically evaluating the historical experience and projected
trends related to these accruals and in consultation with
outside actuarial experts for the self-insurance accruals. If
such information indicates that the accruals are overstated or
understated, or if business conditions indicate we should adjust
the assumptions utilized, we will reduce or provide for
additional accruals as appropriate.

Litigation Accrual

We are subject to various claims and legal actions. We estimate
the accruals for these claims and legal actions in accordance
with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for
Contingencies,” and include such accruals in the other
accrued liability category in our consolidated balance sheets.

Property and Equipment

At December 31, 2005, we had net property and equipment of
$2.60 billion, representing 67.0% of our total assets. We
depreciate property and equipment on a straight-line basis over
their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are
based on the nature of the assets as well as current operating
strategy and legal considerations such as contractual life.
Future events, such as property expansions, property
developments, new competition, or new regulations, could result
in a change in the manner in which we use certain assets
requiring a change in the estimated useful lives of such assets.
In assessing the recoverability of the carrying value of
property and equipment if events and circumstance warrant such
an assessment, we must make assumptions regarding estimated
future cash flows and other factors. If these estimates or the
related assumptions change, we may be required to record an
impairment loss for these assets. Such an impairment loss would
be recognized as a non-cash component of operating income.

Income Taxes

We are subject to income taxes in the United States, and in
several states and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. We
account for income taxes in accordance with
SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”
Under SFAS No. 109, deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized based on differences between
financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities
using enacted tax rates. SFAS No. 109 requires the
recognition of deferred tax assets, net of any applicable
valuation allowances, related to net operating loss
carryforwards, tax credits and other temporary differences. The
standard requires recognition of a future tax



benefit to the extent that realization of such benefit is more
likely than not; otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied.

Our income tax returns are subject to examination by the
Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax
authorities. While positions taken in tax returns are sometimes
subject to uncertainty in the tax laws, we do not take such
positions unless we have “substantial authority” to do
so under the Internal Revenue Code and applicable regulations.
We may take positions on our tax returns based on substantial
authority that are not ultimately accepted by the IRS. The IRS
is currently examining our federal income tax returns for the
years ended December 31, 1998, 1999, and 2000.

We assess potential unfavorable outcomes based on the criteria
of SFAS No. 5. We establish a tax reserve if an
unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the
unfavorable outcome can be reasonably estimated. We assess the
potential outcomes of tax uncertainties on a quarterly basis. In
determining whether the probable criterion of
SFAS No. 5 is met, we presume that the taxing
authority will focus on the exposure and we assess the probable
outcome of a particular issue based upon the relevant legal and
technical merits. We also apply our judgment regarding the
potential actions by the tax authorities and resolution through
the settlement process.

We maintain required tax reserves until such time as the
underlying issue is resolved. When actual results differ from
reserve estimates, we will adjust the income tax provision and
our tax reserves in the period resolved. For tax years that are
examined by taxing authorities, we will adjust tax reserves in
the year the tax examinations are settled. For tax years that
are not examined by taxing authorities, we will adjust tax
reserves in the year that the statute of limitations expires.
Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax
issue is highly judgmental, and we believe we have adequately
provided for any reasonable and foreseeable outcomes related to
uncertain tax matters.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),
“Share-Based Payment,” which supersedes APB
No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees” and amends SFAS No. 95,
“Statement of Cash Flows.” This statement requires
compensation costs related to share-based payment transactions
to be recognized in financial statements. This statement also
requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized
compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow,
rather than as an operating cash flow. The provisions of this
statement are effective as of the first annual reporting period
that begins after June 15, 2005. This statement requires
public entities to measure the cost of employee services
received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on
the grant-date fair value of the award (with limited
exceptions). This cost will be recognized over the period during
which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for
the award. This statement also addresses the accounting for the
tax effects of share-based compensation awards. We adopted this
standard on January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective
application method. Under the modified prospective application
method, we will expense the cost of share-based compensation
awards issued after January 1, 2006. Additionally, we will
recognize compensation cost for the portion of awards
outstanding on January 1, 2006 for which the requisite
service has not been rendered as the requisite service is to be
rendered on or after January 1, 2006. Based on the stock
options outstanding at December 31, 2005, we estimate that
for those options, we will record approximately
$5.0 million, $4.6 million, $4.2 million and
$1.2 million in stock option expense for the years ending
December 31, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. We
can provide no assurances that the actual amount of stock option
expense to be recorded in future years will approximate our
current estimates.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
“Accounting Changes and Error Corrections — a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement
No. 3,” which changes the requirements for the
accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting
principle. SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary
changes in accounting principle, as well as to changes required
by an accounting pronouncement if the pronouncement does not
include specific transition provisions. This statement requires
retrospective application to prior periods’ financial
statements of changes in accounting principle.
SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and
corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2005. We do



not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 154 to have a
material effect on our consolidated financial position, results
of operations or cash flows.

Summary Financial Results

The following table summarizes our results of operations:

Year Ended December 31,

Percent

Percent


Change


Change


(In thousands, except for percentages)

Net revenues

$

1,740,912

45.4

%

$

1,197,056

73.0

%

$

691,754

Operating expenses

1,251,461

116.3

%

578,588

14.4

%

505,628

Operating income

489,451

(20.9

)%

618,468

232.3

%

186,126

Income before income taxes

287,936

(40.2

)%

481,447

622.5

%

66,634

Net income

283,686

(42.7

)%

495,183

643.1

%

66,634

Percent of Net

Revenues Year Ended

December 31,




Operating expenses

71.9

%

48.3

%

73.1

%

Operating income

28.1

%

51.7

%

26.9

%

Income before income taxes

16.5

%

40.2

%

9.6

%

Net income

16.3

%

41.4

%

9.6

%

Our historical financial results during the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 will not be indicative of our
future results, among other things, for the following items
which are not anticipated to occur to this magnitude in the near
future: we sold The Grand Canal Shops mall on May 17, 2004
and recognized a gain of $417.6 million; we paid incentive
payments of $63.2 million related to the Phase II mall
sale to certain of our executives in July 2004; we incurred a
loss on disposal of assets of $31.6 million in 2004 related
primarily to demolition of space to accommodate the construction
of a showroom; we incurred a stock-based compensation charge of
$49.2 million related to our initial public offering in
2004; and we incurred a loss on retirement of debt of
$137.0 million during 2005 related to the redemption of the
11% Mortgage Notes and VML’s senior secured notes.

Key operating revenue measurements

The Venetian’s operating revenue is dependent upon the
volume of customers who stay at the hotel, which affects the
price that can be charged for hotel rooms and the volume of
table games and slot machine play. The Sands Macao is almost
wholly dependent on casino customers that visit the casino on a
daily basis. Hotel revenues are not expected to be material for
The Sands Macao. Visitors to The Sands Macao arrive by ferry,
automobile, airplane or helicopter from Hong Kong, cities in
China, and other Southeast Asian cities in close proximity to
Macao.

The following are the key measurements we use to evaluate
operating revenue:

Hotel revenue measurements include hotel occupancy rate, which
is the average percentage of available hotel rooms occupied
during a period, and average daily room rate, which is the
average price of occupied rooms per day. Revenue per available
room represents a summary of hotel average daily room rates and
occupancy. Because not all available rooms are occupied, average
daily room rates are higher than revenue per available room.

Casino revenue measurements for Las Vegas:

Table games
drop and slot handle are volume measurements. Win or hold
percentage represents the percentage of drop or handle that is
won by the casino and recorded as casino revenue. Table games
drop represents the sum of markers issued (credit instruments)
less



markers paid at the table, plus cash deposited in the table drop
box. Slot handle is the gross amount wagered or coin placed into
slot machines in aggregate for the period cited. Drop and handle
are abbreviations for table games drop and slot handle. Based
upon our mix of table games, our table games produce a
statistical average table win percentage (calculated before
discounts) as measured as a percentage of table game drops of
20.0% to 21.0% and slot machines produce a statistical average
slot machine win percentage (calculated before slot club cash
incentives) as measured as a percentage of slot machine handle
generally between 6.0% and 7.0%.

Casino revenue measurements for Macao:

We view Macao
table games as being segregated into two groups, consistent with
the Macao market’s convention: Rolling Chip play (all VIP
play) and

Non-Rolling

Chip play (mostly non-VIP players). The volume measurement for
Rolling Chip play is

non-negotiable

gaming
chips wagered. The volume measurement for Non-Rolling Chip is
table games drop as described above. Rolling Chip volume and
Non-Rolling Chip volume are not equivalent because, since
Rolling Chip volume is a measure of amounts wagered versus
dropped, Rolling Chip volume is substantially higher than drop.
Slot handle at The Sands Macao is the gross amount wagered or
coins placed into slot machines in aggregate for the period
cited.

We view Rolling Chip table games win as a percentage of Rolling
Chip volume and we view

Non-Rolling

Chip table
games win as a percentage of drop. Win or hold percentage
represents the percentage of Rolling Chip volume, Non-Rolling
Chip drop or slot handle that is won by the casino and recorded
as casino revenue. Based upon our mix of table games in Macao,
our Rolling Chip table games win percentage (calculated before
discounts and commissions) as measured as a percentage of
Rolling Chip volume is expected to be 2.5% to 2.8% and our
Non-Rolling Chip play table games are expected to produce a
statistical average table win percentage as measured as a
percentage of table game drop (before discounts and commissions)
of 16.5% to 17.5%. Like in Las Vegas, our Macao slot machines
produce a statistical average slot machine win percentage as
measured as a percentage of slot machine handle of generally
between 6.0% and 7.0%.

Actual win may vary from the statistical average. Generally,
slot machine play at The Venetian and The Sands Macao is
conducted on a cash basis, The Venetian’s table games
revenue is approximately 60.9% from credit based guests wagering
and The Sands Macao’s table game play is conducted
primarily on a cash basis.

Year Ended December 31, 2005 compared to the Year Ended
December 31, 2004

Operating Revenues

Our net revenues consisted of the following:

(1)

The Grand Canal Shops mall was sold and certain other retail and
    restaurant venues were leased to GGP on May 17, 2004.

Consolidated net revenues were $1.74 billion for the year
ended December 31, 2005, an increase of $543.9 million
compared to $1.20 billion for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The increase in net revenues was due
primarily to an increase in casino revenue of
$541.5 million. This increase is attributable to our



operation of The Sands Macao for a full year in 2005, compared
to just over seven months in 2004. The increase in net revenues
was partially offset by a decrease in retail and other revenue
of $13.4 million, primarily as a result of the sale of The
Grand Canal Shops mall and the lease of certain other retail and
restaurant venues on May 17, 2004.

Casino revenues were $1.25 billion for the year ended
December 31, 2005, an increase of $541.5 million as
compared to $708.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. Of the increase, $494.6 million was
attributable to the operation of The Sands Macao for a full year
in 2005, compared to just over seven months in 2004 and the
increased volumes associated with junket operations. In
addition, there was a $46.9 million increase at The
Venetian due to an increase in table game drop of
$161.6 million and an increase of 2.7 percentage
points in our win percentage. In our experience, average win
percentages remain steady when measured over extended periods of
time, but can vary considerably within shorter time periods as a
result of the statistical variances that are associated with
games of chance in which large amounts are wagered.

Room revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 were
$323.6 million, an increase of $11.6 million as
compared to $312.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The increase was attributable to the
increase in average daily room rate from $220 in 2004 to $225 in
2005 as well as a slight increase in occupancy rate from 97.0%
in 2004 to 97.3% in 2005 at The Venetian. The Venetian generated
revenue per available room of $218 for the year ended
December 31, 2005 as compared to $213 for the year ended
December 31, 2004.

Food and beverage revenues were $147.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005, an increase of $25.9 million
as compared to $121.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. Of this increase, $15.2 million was
attributable to increased business volumes at The Sands Macao as
well as a full year of operations versus just over seven months
in the prior year. Food and beverage revenues at The Venetian
increased $10.7 million due to increased hotel occupancy
and general group business at the property.

Retail and other revenues were $103.1 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005, a decrease of $13.4 million
as compared to $116.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. Retail and other revenues during 2004
include revenue of $15.9 million related to the operations
of The Grand Canal Shops mall and the lease of retail outlets in
The Venetian. The Grand Canal Shops mall was sold and certain
other retail and restaurant venues were leased to GGP on
May 17, 2004.



Operating Expenses

The breakdown of operating expenses is as follows:

(1)

The Grand Canal Shops mall was sold and certain other retail and
    restaurant venues were leased to GGP on May 17, 2004.

Operating expenses were $1.25 billion for the year ended
December 31, 2005, compared to $578.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2004. Excluding the gain on the
sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall, total operating expenses for
the year ended December 31, 2004 were $996.2 million.
The increase in operating expenses was primarily attributable to
the higher operating revenues and business volumes associated
with the opening and operations of The Sands Macao. This
increase was partially offset by a decrease in corporate expense
of $88.1 million, related to $63.2 million of
incentive payments paid to certain of our executives in July
2004 from the Phase II mall sale and a $49.2 million
stock-based compensation expense resulting from stock options
granted during July 2004.

Casino department expenses were $656.6 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005, an increase of $316.3 million
as compared to $340.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily attributable
to the additional casino expenses related to the opening of The
Sands Macao in May 2004, a full year of expenses from that
property during the 2005 period and increased slot machine and
table games volume at The Venetian. Of the $316.3 million
increase in casino expenses, $229.6 million was due to the
39.0% gross win tax on casino revenues in Macao. Despite the
higher gross win tax, casino operating margins at The Sands
Macao are similar to those at The Venetian primarily because of
lower labor, marketing and sales expenses in Macao. Food and
beverage expense increased $12.6 million, primarily related
to the increased food and beverage revenue noted above.

The provision for doubtful accounts was $9.4 million for
the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to
$8.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The
amount of this provision can vary over short periods of time
because of factors specific to the customers who owe us money
from gaming activities at any given time. We believe that the
amount of our provision for doubtful accounts in the future will
depend upon the state of the economy, our credit standards, our
risk assessments and the judgment of our employees responsible
for granting credit.



General and administrative costs increased $19.7 million,
primarily as a result of the full year of operations for The
Sands Macao in 2005 as compared to just over seven months in
2004.

Corporate expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 was
$38.3 million, a decrease of $88.1 million as compared
to $126.4 million for the year ended December 31,
2004. The decrease was primarily the result of
$112.4 million of expenses related to incentive payments
paid to certain of our executives in July 2004 from the
Phase II mall sale and stock-based compensation expense
resulting from stock options granted during July 2004, partially
offset by a $5.0 million charitable contribution during the
first quarter of 2005 and the addition of corporate staff in the
2005 period, including the reassignment of some employees from
Venetian Casino Resort, LLC to Las Vegas Sands Corp. as we build
our corporate infrastructure as a new public company.

Pre-opening and development expenses were $3.7 million and
$22.2 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2005, compared to $19.0 million and
$14.9 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2004. Pre-opening expense for the year ended
December 31, 2004 included $18.0 million related to
The Sands Macao which opened in May 2004. Pre-opening expense
for the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily related to
The Venetian Macao and The Palazzo projects. We expect that
pre-opening expense will increase as these projects get closer
to their 2007 opening dates. The increase in development
expenses was primarily related to our activities in Macao, the
United Kingdom, Singapore and Pennsylvania. See
“— General — Other Development
Projects” above.

Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended
December 31, 2005 was $95.3 million, an increase of
$25.9 million as compared to $69.4 million for the
year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily
the result of placing into service assets of The Sands Macao
during the second quarter of 2004 and a full year of
depreciation expense from that property during 2005 and due to
various expansion projects placed into service at The Venetian,
including new luxury suites, an entertainment theater and
meeting rooms. In addition, there was $7.0 million of
cumulative depreciation expense related to amounts capitalized
in connection with litigation settlements related to the
original construction of The Venetian recorded during 2005. See
“Item 3 — Legal
Proceedings–Construction Litigation.”

The loss on disposal of assets for the year ended
December 31, 2005 was $1.4 million as compared to
$31.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
The loss on disposal of assets of $31.6 million in 2004
resulted primarily from the demolition of space to accommodate
the construction of a showroom at The Venetian.

Interest Expense

The following table summarizes information related to interest
expense on long-term debt:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands, except for

percentages)

Interest cost

$

118,992

$

142,678

Less: Capitalized interest

(22,700

)

(4,601

)

Interest expense, net

$

96,292

$

138,077

Cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized

$

111,066

$

128,641

Average total debt balance

$

1,520,913

$

1,620,134

Weighted average interest rate

5.2

%

7.4

%

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, was
$96.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, a
decrease of $41.8 million as compared to
$138.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Of the net interest expense incurred for the year ended
December 31, 2005, $70.8 million was related to The
Venetian, $4.7 million was related to The Sands Macao,
$12.7 million was related to litigation settlements and
$8.1 million was related to The Sands Expo Center. This
decrease is primarily attributable to the replacement of a
higher fixed rate debt instrument with lower variable rate bank
debt. During the first quarter of 2005 we



retired Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s $843.6 million in
aggregate principal amount of 11% mortgage notes and VML’s
$120.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior
secured notes. In addition, during the first quarter of 2005 we
increased our borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit
Facility and issued $250.0 million in aggregate principal
amount of 6.375% Senior Notes. The decrease was also due to
the capitalization of $22.7 million of interest during the
year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $4.6 million
of capitalized interest during the year ended December 31,
2004. We capitalized interest costs associated with our
construction projects, principally The Venetian Macao and The
Palazzo. We expect that capitalized interest will continue to
increase as the projects approach their planned openings in 2007.

Other Factors Affecting Earnings

Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was
$33.1 million, an increase of $25.4 million as
compared to $7.7 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The increase was due to the increase in
invested cash and cash equivalent balances, primarily from our
December 2004 initial public offering and our 2005 borrowings
under Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility.

The loss on early retirement of debt of $137.0 million
during the year ended December 31, 2005 was the result of
the redemption of Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
$843.6 million in aggregate principal amount of 11%
mortgage notes and VML’s $120.0 million in aggregate
principal amount of senior secured notes.

Our effective income tax rate for the year ended
December 31, 2005 was 1.5%. The effective tax rate for the
year is significantly lower than the federal statutory rate due
primarily to a zero effective tax rate on our Macao net income
as a result of an income tax holiday in Macao, which is to
expire at the end of 2008. Prior to December 2004, Las Vegas
Sands, Inc. had elected to be taxed as an S corporation and
its wholly owned subsidiaries were either limited liability
companies or S corporations, each of which was a
pass-through entity for federal income tax purposes.

Year Ended December 31, 2004 compared to the Year Ended
December 31, 2003

Operating Revenues

Our net revenues consisted of the following:

(1)

The Grand Canal Shops mall was sold and certain other retail and
    restaurant venues were leased to GGP on May 17, 2004.

Consolidated net revenues were $1.20 billion for the year
ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $505.2 million
as compared to $691.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The increase in net revenues was due to
an increase in casino revenue of $435.8 million, primarily
due to the opening of The Sands Macao, an increase in room
revenue of $60.6 million as a result of the addition of
1,013 hotel rooms with the opening of the Venezia tower on
June 26, 2003, and an increase in food and beverage revenue
of $41.4 million, which resulted from increased banquet
revenues at The Venetian. The increase in net revenues was
partially



offset by a decrease in retail and other revenues of
$15.8 million primarily as a result of the sale of The
Grand Canal Shops mall and the lease of certain other retail and
restaurant venues on May 17, 2004.

Casino revenues were $708.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004, an increase of $435.8 million as
compared to $272.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The increase was primarily attributable
to the opening of The Sands Macao on May 18, 2004, which
contributed revenue of $387.6 million during 2004. In our
experience, average win percentages remain steady when measured
over extended periods of time but can vary considerably within
shorter time periods as a result of the statistical variances
that are associated with games of chance in which large amounts
are wagered.

Room revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 were
$312.0 million, an increase of $60.6 million as
compared to $251.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The increase was the result of the
addition of 1,013 hotel rooms with the opening of the Venezia
tower on June 26, 2003, an increase in the average daily
room rate from $204 in 2003 to $220 in 2004 and a slight
increase in room occupancy from 96.0% in 2003 to 97.0% in 2004.
The Venetian generated revenue per available room of $213 for
the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to $195 for
the year ended December 31, 2003. Food and beverage
revenues were $121.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004, an increase of $41.4 million as
compared to $80.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The increase was attributable to the
additional hotel rooms, higher room occupancy, and increased
banquet spaces.

Retail and other revenues were $116.4 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $15.8 million
as compared to $132.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The decrease was primarily due to the
sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall and the lease of retail
outlets in The Venetian.

Operating Expenses

The breakdown of operating expenses is as follows:

Operating expenses were $578.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004, compared to $505.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003. Excluding the gain on the
sale of The Grand Canal Shops mall, total operating expenses for
the year ended December 31, 2004 were $996.2 million.
The increase in operating expenses was attributable to the
higher operating revenues and business volumes associated with
the opening and operations of The Sands Macao and an increase in
corporate expenses related to incentive payments paid



to certain of our executives in July 2004 from the Phase II
mall sale and stock-based compensation expense resulting from
stock options granted during July 2004.

Casino department expenses were $340.2 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004, an increase of $212.1 million
as compared to $128.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The increase was primarily attributable
to the additional casino expenses related to the opening of The
Sands Macao in May 2004 and increased slot machine and table
games volume at The Venetian. Of the $212.1 million
increase in casino expenses, $157.1 million was due to the
39.0% gross win tax on casino revenues in Macao. We expect that
future casino expenses will continue to be higher than before
the opening of The Sands Macao particularly because of the
higher gross win tax. Despite the higher gross win tax; casino
operating margins at The Sands Macao are similar to those at The
Venetian primarily because of lower labor, marketing and sales
expenses in Macao. Room expense increased $12.4 million,
from $64.8 million in 2003 to $77.2 million in 2004,
as a result of an increase in the number of hotel rooms with the
opening of the Venezia tower on June 26, 2003 and a slight
increase in room occupancy.

Food and beverage expense increased $24.0 million as a
result of increased food and beverage sales at The Venetian and
the opening of The Sands Macao.

The provision for doubtful accounts was $8.0 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to
$8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The
amount of this provision can vary over short periods of time
because of factors specific to the customers who owe us money
from gaming activities at any given time. We believe that the
amount of our provision for doubtful accounts in the future will
depend upon the state of the economy, our credit standards, our
risk assessments and the judgment of our employees responsible
for granting credit.

General and administrative costs increased $47.0 million
primarily as the result of the opening of The Sands Macao and
increased utility costs, legal expenses, management bonus
program and property taxes at The Venetian.

Corporate expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 was
$126.4 million, an increase of $116.2 million as
compared to $10.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. The increase was primarily the result of
the payment of incentive payments of $63.2 million to
certain of our executives in July 2004 paid from the
Phase II mall sale and $49.2 million of stock-based
compensation expense resulting from the grant of 3,052,460 stock
options with an exercise price of $5.64 per share during
July 2004. The fair value of the common stock at the dates of
grant for these stock options was originally estimated by
management based principally upon a May 31, 2004 valuation
of the fair value of the common stock of Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
and its subsidiaries by an unaffiliated valuation specialist. We
did not deem it necessary to obtain an additional third party
valuation at the time of the option grants in July because we
had already received an independent valuation as of a date
(May 31) very close in time to the option grant dates.
However, in retrospective review and given the proximity of the
July 2004 grant dates to our initial public offering date, we
believed at the time we prepared our third quarter financial
statements that the fair value of the common stock of
$21.77 per share, based upon the mid-point of a preliminary
estimated range for the proposed valuation in connection with
our initial public offering, was the best estimate of the fair
value of the common stock underlying the options at their date
of grant. As a result, the intrinsic value of the 3,052,460
fully vested options granted during the year ended
December 31, 2004 of $49.2 million ($16.13 per
share) was recorded as corporate expense. The principal factors
used to determine the mid-point of the preliminary estimated
range of the shares sold in our initial public offering were
(i) the projections of our three operating properties, The
Venetian, The Sands Macao and The Sands Expo Center, and two
future projects, the Venetian Macao and The Palazzo,
(ii) the trading multiples of gaming, hospitality and other
leisure industry companies and (iii) discount rates
appropriate for comparable projects. The preliminary estimated
mid-point of the range of $21.77 per share was updated to
be $29.00 per share in conformity with the final price per
share for the initial public offering of our common stock. The
update for the final price had no impact on the compensation
expense charge previously taken by us.

Pre-opening and development expenses were $19.0 million and
$14.9 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2004, compared to $10.5 million and zero,
respectively, for the year ended December 31,



2003. The increase in pre-opening was primarily a result of
increased pre-opening expenses in Macao during the first two
quarters of 2004 and the increase in development expenses was
related to our development activities in Macao and the United
Kingdom.

Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended
December 31, 2004 was $69.4 million an increase of
$15.5 million as compared to $53.9 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003. The increase was the result
of placing into service the Venezia tower at The Venetian and
The Sands Macao during 2004.

The loss on disposal of assets for the year ended
December 31, 2004 of $31.6 million was primarily a
result of the demolition of space to accommodate the
construction of a showroom at The Venetian.

Interest Expense

The following table summarizes information related to interest
expense on long-term debt:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands, except for

percentages)

Interest cost

$

142,678

$

128,082

Less: Capitalized interest

(4,601

)

(5,640

)

Interest expense, net

$

138,077

$

122,442

Cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized

$

128,641

$

118,030

Average total debt balance

$

1,620,134

$

1,465,908

Weighted average interest rate

7.4

%

8.4

%

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized was
$138.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004,
an increase of $15.7 million as compared to
$122.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
Of the net interest expense incurred for the year ended
December 31, 2004, $120.3 million was related to The
Venetian (excluding the Grand Canal Shops mall),
$2.7 million was related to The Grand Canal Shops mall,
$7.0 million was related to The Sands Expo Center and
$8.1 million was related to The Sands Macao. The increase
in interest expense was attributable to increased borrowings
associated with the construction of The Sands Macao and The
Palazzo.

Other Factors Affecting Earnings

Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2004 was
$7.7 million, an increase of $5.6 million as compared
to $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
The increase was due to an increase in cash balances, a portion
of which resulted from the completion of our initial public
offering in December 2004.

Our effective tax rate for 2004 was lower than the federal
statutory rate due primarily to a zero effective tax rate on our
Macao net income as a result of an income tax holiday in Macao,
which is to expire at the end of 2008. In addition, prior to
December 2004, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. had elected to be taxed as
an S corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries were
either limited liability companies or S corporations, each
of which was a pass-through entity for federal income tax
purposes.



Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Flows — Summary

Our cash flows consisted of the following:

Cash Flows — Operating Activities

The Venetian’s slot machine and retail hotel rooms
businesses are generally conducted on a cash basis, its table
games and group hotel businesses are conducted on a cash and
credit basis and its banquet business is conducted primarily on
a credit basis resulting in operating cash flows being generally
affected by changes in operating income and accounts
receivables. The Sands Macao table games and slot machine play
is currently conducted primarily on a cash basis. As of
December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, we held
unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $456.8 million
and $1.29 billion, respectively. Net cash provided by
operating activities for 2005 was $589.9 million, an
increase of $216.5 million as compared with
$373.4 million for 2004. Factors contributing to the
increase in cash flow provided by operating activities were
primarily an increase in the operating results at The Sands
Macao, an increase in the overall operations at The Venetian,
and certain positive changes in our working capital assets and
liabilities.

Cash Flows — Investing Activities

Capital expenditures during 2005 totaled $860.6 million,
including $138.6 million on expansions, improvements and
maintenance capital expenditures at The Venetian and The Sands
Expo Center in Las Vegas; $388.2 million for
construction and development activities in Macao (including The
Sands Macao and The Venetian Macao on the Cotai Strip); and
$333.8 million for The Palazzo.

Restricted cash increased $265.4 million primarily as a
result of drawing $200.0 million under the Senior Secured
Credit Facility for future use in the construction of The
Palazzo.



Capital and Liquidity

We expect to fund our operations, capital expenditures (other
than The Sands Macao expansion construction, The Palazzo, the
Phase II mall, The Venetian Macao, our other Cotai Strip
developments and related Cotai Strip infrastructure development
and construction costs) and debt service requirements from
existing cash balances, operating cash flow and borrowings under
our revolving credit facility. We have a $450.0 million
revolving credit facility for working capital needs, of which
$369.0 million was available, as of December 31, 2005.

On December 20, 2004, the Company issued
27,380,953 shares of common stock in its initial public
offering at an offering price of $29.00 per share,
resulting in net proceeds of approximately $738.7 million
to the Company after deducting underwriting discounts and
commissions and related offering expenses payable by the
Company. We used a portion of these net proceeds as further
described below to pay the redemption or purchase price of the
11% mortgage notes issued by Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Venetian
Casino Resort, LLC, which we redeemed on February 1, 2005,
and $70.0 million to redeem VML’s senior secured notes
on May 23, 2005. We intend to use the remaining net
proceeds from our initial public offering for working capital
purposes and other general corporate purposes, which may include
the construction of The Palazzo and our Macao projects.

On February 10, 2005, the Company issued
$250.0 million of 6.375% senior notes due 2015 in a
private placement. On February 22, 2005, we entered into
the Senior Secured Credit Facility. The Senior Secured Credit
Facility amended and restated the Prior Senior Secured Credit
Facility to increase borrowings by $400.0 million of
additional term loans, expand its revolving credit facility from
$125.0 million to $450.0 million, lower its interest
costs, and revise some of its covenants to provide greater
operational flexibility. The Senior Secured Credit Facility
provides for aggregate borrowings of up to $1.62 billion,
consisting of a $1.17 billion term loan facility and a
$450.0 million revolving credit facility. On
February 1, 2005, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Venetian Casino
Resort, LLC redeemed $291.1 million in aggregate principal
amount of their 11% mortgage notes at a redemption price of 111%
of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid
interest. We used a portion of the proceeds from our initial
public offering to pay the redemption price of these notes. On
February 22, 2005, we repurchased an additional
$542.3 million of the outstanding 11% mortgage notes in a
tender offer, and on March 24, 2005, we redeemed the
remaining $10.2 million. We used the $244.8 million
net proceeds from the 6.375% senior notes offering,
$106.6 million of cash on hand and $311.7 million of
term loan borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facility to
retire the outstanding $552.5 million in aggregate
principal amount of 11% mortgage notes and to pay all fees and
expenses associated with these transactions.

We have commenced construction of The Palazzo and plan to
continue work on The Palazzo during 2006. We currently estimate
that construction will be completed in the summer of 2007 and
that cost to develop and construct The Palazzo could reach as
high as approximately $1.8 billion (exclusive of land), of
which the Phase II mall is expected to cost approximately
$280.0 million (exclusive of certain incentive payments to
executives made in July 2004). In addition, we expect tenants
will make significant additional capital expenditures to build
out stores and restaurants in The Palazzo. As of
December 31, 2005, we had paid $506.4 million in
design, development and construction costs for The Palazzo. We
intend to use $361.8 million (plus the interest earnings)
of the proceeds from the $970.0 million Term B Facility and
$200.0 million from the Term B Delayed Draw Facility from
the Senior Secured Credit Facility, $221.5 million of
proceeds from the Phase II Mall Construction Loan, cash on
hand, borrowings under the Revolving Facility under the Senior
Secured Credit Facility and operating cash flow to fund the
development and construction costs for The Palazzo (including
the Phase II mall) and to pay related fees and expenses.

We currently estimate that the cost for The Venetian Macao will
be approximately $2.3 billion (exclusive of land) and that
we will need to arrange additional debt financing to finance
these costs. We have not yet finalized our estimate of the cost
of our other Cotai Strip developments. We are in the process of
obtaining a new $2.50 billion senior secured credit
facility for the partial funding of The Sands Macao expansion,
the construction of The Venetian Macao and our other Cotai Strip
developments. The documentation for the new facility is still
being negotiated and the potential lenders are not yet legally
committed to lend the funds. The



credit facility is expected to close in March 2006. In addition,
a portion of The Sands Macao’s cash flows is expected to be
used to finance the construction of The Venetian Macao.
Therefore, we may need to incur additional debt to finance The
Venetian Macao if The Sands Macao’s cash flows are not
sufficient. We also expect that our other Cotai Strip
developments will be financed in large part by additional debt.

Aggregate Indebtedness and Other Known Contractual
Obligations

Our total long-term indebtedness and other known contractual
obligations are summarized below as of December 31, 2005:

(1)

The Senior Secured Credit Facility consists of a
    $970.0 million single draw term B loan facility, a
    $200.0 million term B delayed draw facility that was fully
    drawn on August 19, 2005 and a $450.0 million
    revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2005, the
    amounts borrowed were $1.17 billion under the Term B
    facilities (including the delayed draw) and $31.0 million
    under the revolving credit facility. The term B facility and
    delayed draw facility will mature on June 15, 2011 and is
    subject to quarterly amortization payments commencing in the
    first quarter after substantial completion of The Palazzo. The
    revolving credit facility matures on February 22, 2010 and
    has no interim amortization. In addition, $50.0 million of
    letters of credit were outstanding as of December 31, 2005,
    which reduces the amount available for borrowing under the
    revolving credit facility to $369.0 million.

(2)

The FF&E Credit Facility will mature on July 1, 2008
    and is subject to quarterly amortization payments.

(3)

The Phase II Mall Construction Loan commitment is
    $250.0 million and is due March 30, 2008.



In addition, under the terms of our subconcession agreement, we
are obligated to make investments of at least 4.4 billion
patacas (approximately $527.4 million at exchange rates in
effect on December 31, 2005) in various development
projects in Macao by June 2006. We have spent more than the
required minimum amount. We expect to make land premium payments
relating to The Venetian Macao and other Macao properties under
the development in amounts to be determined.

Pursuant to a contribution agreement with Bethworks Now, LLC
(“Bethworks”) for a Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
development, we (a) have expended approximately
$6.6 million, a portion of which was paid to Bethworks to
reimburse Bethworks for property-related expenses, (b) are
required to fund all operating expenses of the property, which
is expected to be approximately $1.0 million per year and
(c) are required to make an additional $2.0 million
payment to Bethworks when and if a gaming license for the
Bethlehem property is obtained. See
“— Business — Overview —
Other Development Projects.”

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have not entered into any transactions with special purpose
entities, nor have we engaged in any derivative transactions
other than straightforward interest rate caps. During 1997, we
entered into off-balance sheet arrangements with the HVAC
provider. Under the terms of these energy service agreements, we
will purchase HVAC energy and services over initial terms
expiring in 2009 with an option to collectively extend the terms
of these agreements for two consecutive five-year periods. We
have fixed payment obligations due during the next twelve months
of $6.8 million under the energy services agreements with
the HVAC provider.



The total remaining payment obligations under these arrangements
was $23.9 million as of December 31, 2005, payable in
equal monthly installments through July 1, 2009. We have
the right to terminate the agreement based upon the failure of
the HVAC provider to provide HVAC services. Upon the sale of The
Grand Canal Shops mall on May 17, 2004, GGP assumed the
responsibility for $1.6 million of annual payments to the
HVAC provider. We have no other off-balance sheet arrangements.

Dividends

Our subsidiary, Las Vegas Sands, Inc., declared and accrued
dividends of $21.1 million in 2004 that were paid during
January 2005. These dividends represented tax distributions to
shareholders during 2004. The tax distributions were permitted
under existing debt instruments while Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was
a subchapter S corporation. As a result of the conversion
to a taxable “C” corporation for income tax purposes,
Las Vegas Sands, Inc. no longer makes such tax distributions.

Restrictions on Distributions

We are a parent company with limited business operations. Our
main asset is the stock and membership interests of our
subsidiaries. The debt instruments of Las Vegas Sands, LLC
contain significant restrictions on the payment of dividends and
distributions to us by Las Vegas Sands, LLC. In particular, the
Senior Secured Credit Facility prohibits Las Vegas Sands, LLC
from paying dividends or making distributions to us, or
investing in us, with limited exceptions. Las Vegas Sands, LLC
may distribute to us up to $25.0 million or
$50.0 million in dividend payments in a twelve-month period
after the substantial completion of The Palazzo, depending on
whether certain financial tests are met.

In addition, the debt instrument of our Phase II Mall
Subsidiary also restricts the payment of dividends and
distributions to us. Subject to limited exceptions, the
Phase II Mall Construction Loan prohibits the Phase II
Mall Subsidiary from paying dividends or making distributions to
us, or making investments in us, other than tax distributions
and a limited basket amount.

The debt instruments of our subsidiaries also contain, and the
proposed new credit facility for the construction of The
Venetian Macao is expected to contain, certain restrictions
that, among other things, limit the ability of our company
and/or certain subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness,
issue disqualified stock or equity interests, pay dividends or
make other distributions, repurchase equity interests or certain
indebtedness, create certain liens, enter into certain
transactions with affiliates, enter into certain mergers or
consolidations or sell our assets of our company without prior
approval of the lenders or noteholders. Financial covenants
included in our Senior Secured Credit Facility include a minimum
interest coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum net
worth covenant and maximum capital expenditure limitations. See
“Note 7 — Long-Term Debt” to our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Inflation

We believe that inflation and changing prices have not had a
material impact on our net sales, revenues or income from
continuing operations during the past year.

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This report contains forward-looking statements that are made
pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements
include the discussions of our business strategies and
expectations concerning future operations, margins,
profitability, liquidity, and capital resources. In addition, in
certain portions included in this report, the words:
“anticipates,” “believes,”
“estimates,” “seeks,” “expects,”
“plans,” “intends” and similar expressions,
as they relate to our company or its management, are intended to
identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that
these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot
assure you that any forward-looking statements will prove to be
correct. These forward-looking statements involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause
our actual results, performance or achievements to be



materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements. These factors include, among others, the risks
associated with:

All future written and verbal forward-looking statements
attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are
expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary
statements contained or referred to in this section. New risks
and uncertainties arise from time to time, and it is impossible
for us to predict these events or how they may affect us.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update
any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as
a result of new information, future events or developments,
except as required by federal securities laws.

ITEM 7A. —

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
    RISK

Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in
market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign
currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Our primary
exposure to market risk is interest



rate risk associated with our long-term debt. We attempt to
manage our interest rate risk by managing the mix of our
long-term fixed-rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings,
and by use of interest rate cap agreements. The ability to enter
into interest rate cap agreements allows us to manage our
interest rate risk associated with our variable rate debt. We do
not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes and
do not enter into derivative transactions that would be
considered speculative positions. Our derivative financial
instruments consist exclusively of interest rate cap agreements,
which do not qualify for hedge accounting. Interest
differentials resulting from these agreements are recorded on an
accrual basis as an adjustment to interest expense.

To manage exposure to counterparty credit risk in interest rate
cap agreements, we enter into agreements with highly rated
institutions that can be expected to fully perform under the
terms of such agreements. Frequently, these institutions are
also members of the bank group providing our credit facilities,
which management believes further minimizes the risk of
nonperformance.

The table below provides information about our financial
instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For
debt obligations, the table presents notional amounts and
weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates
for the years ending December 31:

(1)

The fair values are based on the borrowing rates currently
    available for debt instruments with similar terms and maturities
    and market quotes of our publicly traded debt.

(2)

Based upon contractual interest rates for fixed rate
    indebtedness or current LIBOR rates for variable rate
    indebtedness.

(3)

As of December 31, 2005, we have three interest rate cap
    agreements with a fair value of $0.6 million based on a
    quoted market value from the institution holding the agreement.

Borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facility bear
interest at our election at either LIBOR plus 1.75% or the base
rate plus 0.75% per annum, subject to downward adjustments
based upon our credit rating. Borrowings under the
$250.0 million Phase II Mall construction loan
facility bear interest at our election at either a base rate
plus 0.75% per annum or at LIBOR plus 1.75% per annum.
Borrowings under the Interface Mortgage Loan bear interest at an
interest rate equal to LIBOR plus 3.75%.

Foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material
to our results of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2005, but may be in future periods in relation
to activity associated with our Macao subsidiaries. We do not
hedge our exposure to foreign currency; however, we maintain a
significant amount of our operating funds in the same currencies
in which we have obligations thereby reducing our exposure to
currency fluctuations.

See also “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and
“Note 7 — Long Term Debt” to our
Consolidated Financial Statements.



ITEM 8. —

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The financial information included in the financial statement
schedule should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements. All other financial statement schedules
have been omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is included in the consolidated financial
statements or the notes thereto.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Directors and Stockholders of Las Vegas Sands Corp.

We have completed an integrated audit of Las Vegas Sands
Corp.’s 2005 consolidated financial statements and of its
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 and audits of its 2004 and 2003
consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
presented below.

Consolidated financial statements

In our opinion, the financial statements listed in the index
appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Las Vegas Sands
Corp. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Internal control over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the
Company maintained effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2005 based on criteria
established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”), is
fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those
criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on
criteria established in

Internal Control —
Integrated Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on management’s
assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An
audit of internal control over financial reporting includes
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we consider
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and



expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Las Vegas, Nevada

March 1, 2006



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and
Comprehensive Income

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 —

Organization and Business of Company

Las Vegas Sands Corp. (“LVSC”) was incorporated in
Nevada during August 2004 and completed an initial public
offering of its common stock in December 2004. Immediately prior
to the initial public offering LVSC acquired 100% of the capital
stock of Las Vegas Sands, Inc., which was converted into a
Nevada limited liability company, Las Vegas Sands, LLC
(“LVSLLC”) in July 2005. The acquisition of LVSLLC by
LVSC has been accounted for as a reorganization of entities
under common control, in a manner similar to

pooling-of

-interests.
LVSC is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
“LVS.”

Las Vegas Properties

LVSC and its subsidiaries (collectively, the
“Company”) own and operate The Venetian Resort Hotel
Casino (“The Venetian”), a Renaissance Venice-themed
resort situated on the Las Vegas Strip (the “Strip”).
The Venetian is located across from The Mirage and the Treasure
Island Hotel and Casino and next to the Wynn Las Vegas Resort.
The Venetian includes the first all-suites hotel on the Strip
with 4,027 suites; a gaming facility of approximately
116,000 square feet; an enclosed retail, dining and
entertainment complex of approximately 440,000 net leasable
square feet (the “Grand Canal Shops” or the
“Mall”); which was sold to a third party in 2004 (see
Note 14 — Mall Sale), a meeting and conference
facility, which was recently expanded to approximately
1.1 million square feet; and an expo and convention center
of approximately 1,150,000 square feet (“The Sands
Expo Center”). The Company has commenced construction work
on the site of The Palazzo Resort Hotel Casino (“The
Palazzo”), a second resort similar in size to The Venetian,
which is situated on a 14 acre site adjacent to The
Venetian and The Sands Expo Center and next to the Wynn Las
Vegas Resort. The Palazzo is expected to consist of an
all-suites, 50-floor luxury hotel tower with approximately 3,025
suites, a gaming facility of approximately 105,000 square
feet, an enclosed shopping, dining and entertainment complex of
approximately 450,000 square feet (the “Phase II
Mall”), which the Company has contracted to sell to a third
party (see Note 14 — Mall Sale).

Macao Projects

The Company also owns and operates The Sands Macao, a Las
Vegas-style casino in Macao, China, which was opened on
May 18, 2004. In addition to The Sands Macao, the Company
is also constructing The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel Casino
(“The Venetian Macao”), a 3,000 all-suites hotel,
casino, and convention center complex, with a Venetian-style
theme similar to that of its Las Vegas property. Under its
gaming subconcession in Macao, the Company was obligated to
develop and open The Venetian Macao by June 2006 and a
convention center by December 2006, and invest, or cause to be
invested, at least 4.4 billion patacas (approximately
$527.4 million at exchange rates in effect on
December 31, 2005) in various development projects in Macao
by June 2009. The Company has spent more than the required
minimum amount. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the
Company received an extension of the June and December 2006
construction deadlines for The Venetian Macao and the convention
center to December 2007. The Company currently expects to open
The Venetian Macao and the Convention Center in mid-2007. If it
fails to meet the December 2007 deadline, the Company could lose
its right to continue to operate The Sands Macao or any other
facilities developed under its Macao gaming subconcession and
its investment to date in construction of The Venetian Macao
could be lost.

The Company commenced construction of The Venetian Macao prior
to obtaining a land concession from the Macao government which
holds title to the land. The Company has applied to the Macao
government for a land concession for a portion of the west side
of the Cotai Strip, including the site of The Venetian Macao.
The land concession will require the Company to pay certain
premiums and rent. The Company is in negotiation with the Macao
government over the cost of the land concession. The Company
believes it will be successful in obtaining the land concession.
However, in the event the Company is unable to successfully
conclude its negotiations with the Macao government with regard
to the land underlying The



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Venetian Macao, the Company could lose all or a substantial part
of its investment in the creation of the land and in
constructing The Venetian Macao.

Interface Holding

LVSC’s principal stockholder (the “Principal
Stockholder”) was also the sole stockholder of Interface
Group Holding Company, Inc. (“Interface”). On
July 29, 2004, LVSC acquired all of the capital stock of
Interface from the Principal Stockholder in exchange for the
issuance to the Principal Stockholder of consideration equal to
58,625,638 additional shares of common stock of LVSC. Interface
indirectly owns The Sands Expo Center and held a
$255.2 million redeemable preferred interest in Venetian
Casino Resort, LLC, which was cancelled in February 2005 and has
been eliminated, as applicable, in these consolidated financial
statements. (See Note 8 — Acquisition of
Interface and Redeemable Preferred Interest in Venetian Casino
Resort, LLC). The acquisition of Interface by the Company has
been accounted for as a reorganization of entities under common
control, in a manner similar to

pooling-of

-interests.

Note 2 —

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
LVSC and its subsidiaries. Significant intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires the Company to make estimates
and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of
contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the
Company evaluates those estimates, including those related to
the allowance for doubtful accounts and discounts, accruals for
slot marketing points, self-insurance, and litigation, asset
impairment, useful lives for depreciable and amortizable assets,
stock option values for pro forma information related to stock
options, and income taxes. These estimates are based on
historical information, information that is currently available
to the Company and on various other assumptions that the Company
believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual
results could vary from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term
investments with original maturities of less than 90 days.
Due to their short maturities, the carrying value of these
investments approximates their fair value.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
determined by the

first-in,

first-out and
specific identification methods. Inventories consist primarily
of food, beverage and retail products.

Accounts Receivable

Accounts receivable are principally comprised of casino and
hotel receivables, which do not bear interest and are recorded
at cost. The allowance for doubtful accounts represents the
Company’s best estimate of the amount of probable credit
losses in the Company’s existing accounts receivable. The
Company determines the allowance based on specific customer
information, historical write-off experience and current
industry and economic data. Account balances are charged off
against the allowance when the Company believes it is probable
the receivable will not be recovered.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation and
amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful lives of the assets, which do not exceed the
lease term for leasehold improvements, as follows:

Building and improvements

15 to 40 years

Furniture, fixtures and equipment

3 to 15 years

Leasehold improvements

5 to 10 years

Maintenance, repairs and renewals that neither materially add to
the value of the property nor appreciably prolong its life are
charged to expense as incurred. Gains or losses on disposition
of property and equipment are included in the consolidated
statements of operations.

The Company evaluates its property and equipment and other
long-lived assets for impairment in accordance with the
Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”)
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets.” For assets to be disposed of, the
Company recognizes the asset to be sold at the lower of carrying
value or fair value less costs of disposal. Fair value for
assets to be disposed of is estimated based on comparable asset
sales, solicited offers, or a discounted cash flow model.

For assets to be held and used, fixed assets are reviewed for
impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. If an
indicator of impairment exists, the estimated future cash flows
of the asset, on an undiscounted basis, are compared to the
carrying value of the asset. If the undiscounted cash flows
exceed the carrying value, no impairment is indicated. If the
undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, then
an impairment is measured based on fair value compared to
carrying value, with fair value typically based on a discounted
cash flow model. If an asset is still under development, future
cash flows include remaining construction costs.

Capitalized Interest

Interest costs associated with major construction projects are
capitalized and included in the cost of the projects. When no
debt is incurred specifically for construction projects,
interest is capitalized on amounts expended using the
weighted-average cost of the Company’s outstanding
borrowings. Capitalization of interest ceases when the project
is substantially complete.

Deferred Offering Costs and Original Issue
    Discounts

Deferred offering costs and original issue discounts are
amortized to interest expense based on the terms of the related
debt instruments using the effective interest method.

Hotel and Food and Beverage Revenues

Hotel revenue recognition criteria are generally met at the time
of occupancy. Food and beverage revenue recognition criteria are
generally met at the time of service. Deposits for future hotel
occupancy or food and beverage services contracts are recorded
as deferred income until revenue recognition criteria are met.
Cancellation fees for hotel and food and beverage services are
recognized upon cancellation by the customer.

Convention and Rental Revenues

Convention revenues are recognized when the related service is
rendered or the event is held. Minimum rental revenues are
included in retail and other revenue and are recognized on a
straight-line basis over the terms of the related lease.
Percentage rents are recognized in the period in which the
tenants exceed their



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

respective percentage rent thresholds. Charges to tenants for
real estate taxes, insurance and other retail operating expenses
are recognized as revenues in the period billed which
approximates the period in which the applicable costs are
incurred.

Slot Club Promotion and Progressive Jackpot Payouts

The Company has established a promotional club to encourage
repeat business from frequent and active slot machine customers
and table games patrons. Members earn points based on gaming
activity and such points can be redeemed for cash. The Company
accrues for club points as a reduction to revenue based upon the
estimates for expected redemptions. The Company maintains a
number of progressive slot machines and table games. As wagers
are made on the respective progressive games, the amount
available to win (to be paid out when the appropriate jackpots
are hit) increases. The Company has recorded the progressive
jackpots as a liability with a corresponding charge against
casino revenue.

Casino Revenue and Promotional Allowances

Casino revenue is the aggregate of gaming wins and losses. Cash
discounts and other cash incentives related to gaming play are
recorded as a reduction of gross casino revenues. In accordance
with industry practice, the retail value of accommodations, food
and beverage, and other services furnished to hotel/casino
guests without charge is included in gross revenue and then
deducted as promotional allowances. The estimated retail value
of such promotional allowances is included in operating revenues
as follows (in thousands):

Revenue

Year Ended December 31,




Food and beverage

$

34,760

$

22,042

$

13,712

Rooms

42,354

36,994

29,819

Other

6,199

2,478

1,325

$

83,313

$

61,514

$

44,856

The estimated departmental cost of providing such promotional
allowances is included primarily in casino operating expenses as
follows (in thousands):

Estimated Cost

Year Ended December 31,




Food and beverage

$

23,153

$

12,715

$

8,362

Rooms

10,862

9,292

8,545

Other

5,973

2,413

1,067

$

39,988

$

24,420

$

17,974

Pre-Opening and Development Expenses

Pre-opening expense represents direct personnel and other costs
incurred prior to the opening of new ventures and are expensed
as incurred. Development expense includes the costs associated
with the Company’s evaluation and pursuit of new business
opportunities, which are also expensed as incurred.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Advertising Costs

Costs for advertising are expensed as incurred. Advertising
costs included in general and administrative expense were
$4.6 million, $3.3 million, and $2.8 million for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003,
respectively.

Currency Translation

The Company accounts for currency translation in accordance with
SFAS No. 52, “Foreign Currency Translation.”
Balance sheet accounts are translated at the exchange rate in
effect at each balance sheet date. Income statement accounts are
translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during the
period. Translation adjustments resulting from this process are
charged or credited to other comprehensive income.

Comprehensive income

Comprehensive income includes net income and all other
non-stockholder changes in equity, or other comprehensive
income. Elements of the Company’s other comprehensive
income are reported in the accompanying consolidated statements
of stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and the
cumulative balance of these elements consisted solely of foreign
currency translation adjustments.

Earnings Per Share

The weighted average number of common and common equivalent
shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per
share consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,




Weighted-average common shares outstanding (used in the
    calculation of basic earnings per share)

354,161,165

326,486,740

324,658,394

Potential dilution from stock options and restricted stock

365,439

362,171

532,065

Weighted-average common and common equivalent shares (used in
    the calculations of diluted earnings per share)

354,526,604

326,848,911

325,190,459

For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003,
outstanding options to purchase 42,820, zero, and
1,463,181 shares of common stock, respectively, were not
included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share
because their effect was antidilutive.

Stock-Based Employee Compensation

The Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board
Opinion (“APB”) No. 25, “Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees,” and accounts for its
stock-based compensation to employees using the intrinsic value
method. Under this method, compensation expense is the
difference between the fair value of the Company’s common
stock and the stock option’s exercise price at the
measurement date. Under APB No. 25, if the exercise price
of the stock options is equal to or greater than the fair value
of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation
expense is recognized. The Company’s stock-based employee
compensation plan is more fully discussed in Note 9.

During July 2004, fully vested options to
purchase 3,052,460 shares of common stock were granted
to employees of the Company by the board of directors under the
Company’s stock option plan at an exercise price of
$5.64 per share. The fair value of the common stock at the
dates of grant for the stock options granted during July



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

2004 was originally estimated by management based principally
upon a May 31, 2004 valuation of the fair value of the
common stock of LVSLLC and its subsidiaries by an unaffiliated
valuation specialist. The Company did not deem it necessary to
obtain an additional third party valuation at the time of the
option grants in July because it had already received an
independent valuation as of a date (May 31) very close
in time to the option grant dates. However, in retrospective
review and given the proximity of the July 2004 grant dates to
the proposed initial public offering date, the Company believed
at the time it prepared its third quarter financial statements
that the fair value of its common stock of $21.77 per
share, based upon the mid-point of a preliminary estimated range
for the proposed valuation in connection with the initial public
offering, was the best estimate of the fair value of the common
stock underlying the options at their date of grant. As a
result, the intrinsic value of the fully vested options granted
during the year ended December 31, 2004 of
$49.2 million ($16.13 per share) was recorded as
compensation expense and is included in corporate expense in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The
principal factors used to determine the mid-point of the
preliminary estimated range of the shares to be sold in the
Company’s initial public offering were (i) the
projections of the Company’s three operating properties,
The Venetian, The Sands Macao and The Sands Expo Center, and two
future projects, The Venetian Macao and The Palazzo,
(ii) the trading multiples of gaming, hospitality and other
leisure industry companies and (iii) discount rates
appropriate for comparable projects.

Had the Company accounted for the plans under the fair value
method allowed by SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,” the Company’s net income
and earnings per share would have been reduced to the following
pro forma amounts (in thousands, except per share data):

The estimated grant date fair value of the options granted under
the Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (the “2004
Plan”) during 2005 was $13.87 per share and was
computed using the Black Scholes option-pricing model with the
following weighted average assumptions: risk free interest rate
of 4.14%; no expected dividend yield; expected volatility of
31.45%; and an expected life of 6 years. The estimated
grant date fair value of the 2,185,783 options granted under the
2004 Plan during 2004 was $12.78 per share and was computed
using the Black Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted average assumptions: risk free interest rate of 3.66%;
no expected dividend yield; expected volatility of 40%; and an
expected life of 6 years. The estimated grant date fair
value of the 3,052,460 options granted under the LVSLLC 1997
Fixed Stock Option Plan (the “1997 Plan”) during 2004
was $21.44 per share and was computed under the



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

minimum value method with the following weighted average
assumptions: risk free interest rate of 3.84%; no expected
dividend yield; an expected life of


/


year. The estimated fair value of options granted during 2003
was $1 per share and was computed using the minimum value
method with the following weighted average assumptions: risk
free interest rate of 3.84%; no-expected dividend yield; and an
expected life of


/


years.

Income Taxes

Prior to its merger into a wholly owned subsidiary of LVSC (the
“Merger”) in December 2004 and its conversion into a
LLC in 2005, LVSLLC had elected to be taxed as an
S corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries were either
limited liability companies or S corporations, each of
which was a pass-through entity for federal income tax purposes.
Nevada does not levy a corporate income tax and the Company has
an income tax holiday in Macao through 2008. Accordingly, no
provision for federal, state, or foreign income taxes is
included in the consolidated statements of operations for the
year ended December 31, 2003 or for the period from
January 1, 2004 through the Merger in December 2004.
LVSLLC’s debt instruments provided for dividends to be paid
to stockholders to pay income taxes associated with its taxable
income attributable to each stockholder during the period LVSLLC
was taxed as an S corporation. During 2004 and 2003, LVSLLC
declared and accrued $129.0 million and $4.2 million
of tax dividends, respectively.

As a result of the Merger and the completion of LVSC’s
initial public offering in December 2004, the Company is now
subject to federal and certain state income taxes. For
information purposes, the consolidated statements of operations
also include pro forma amounts for the income taxes that would
have been recorded if the Company had historically been a C
corporation.

The Company adopted SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for
Income Taxes,” effective with the date of the Merger. Under
SFAS No. 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized based on differences between financial statement and
tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates.
SFAS No. 109 requires the recognition of deferred tax
assets, net of any applicable valuation allowances, related to
net operating loss carryforwards, tax credits and other
temporary differences. The standard requires recognition of a
future tax benefit to the extent that realization of such
benefit is more likely than not; otherwise, a valuation
allowance is applied.

The Company’s income tax returns are subject to examination
by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax
authorities. While positions taken in tax returns are sometimes
subject to uncertainty in the tax laws, the Company does not
take such positions unless it has “substantial
authority” to do so under the Internal Revenue Code and
applicable regulations. The Company may take positions on its
tax returns based on substantial authority that are not
ultimately accepted by the IRS. The IRS is currently examining
federal income tax returns for the years ended December 31,
2000, 1999, and 1998. The Company believes that any liability
arising from the examinations will not have a material impact on
its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

The Company assesses potential unfavorable outcomes based on the
criteria of SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for
Contingencies.” The Company establishes a tax reserve if an
unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the
unfavorable outcome can be reasonably estimated. The Company
assesses the potential outcomes of tax uncertainties on a
quarterly basis. In determining whether the probable criterion
of SFAS No. 5 is met, the Company presumes that the
taxing authority will focus on the exposure and it assesses the
probable outcome of a particular issue based upon the relevant
legal and technical merits. The Company also applies judgment
regarding the potential actions by the tax authorities and
resolution through the settlement process.

The Company maintains required tax reserves until such time as
the underlying issue is resolved. When actual results differ
from reserve estimates, the Company will adjust the income tax
provision and its tax reserves in the period resolved. For tax
years that are examined by taxing authorities, the Company will
adjust



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

tax reserves in the year the tax examinations are settled. For
tax years that are not examined by taxing authorities, the
Company will adjust tax reserves in the year that the statute of
limitations expires. The Company’s estimate of the
potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly
judgmental, and it believes it has adequately provided for any
reasonable and foreseeable outcomes related to uncertain tax
matters.

Tax Indemnification

In connection with the conversion of LVSLLC from a subchapter
S corporation to a taxable C corporation for income
tax purposes, LVSLLC entered into an indemnification agreement
pursuant to which it agreed to:

•

indemnify those of our stockholders who were stockholders of Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. prior to the 2004 initial public offering
    against certain tax liabilities incurred by these stockholders
    as a result of adjustments (pursuant to a determination by, or a
    settlement with, a taxing authority or court, or pursuant to the
    filing of an amended tax return) to the taxable income of Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. with respect to taxable periods during which
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was a subchapter S corporation for
    income tax purposes; and

•

indemnify the Principal Stockholder against certain tax
    liabilities incurred by him as a result of adjustments (pursuant
    to a determination by, or a settlement with, a taxing authority
    or court, or pursuant to the filing of an amended tax return) to
    the taxable income of Interface Holdings with respect to taxable
    periods during which Interface Holdings was a subchapter
    S corporation for income tax purposes.

Concentrations of Credit Risk

Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk, consist principally of cash
equivalents and casino receivables. The cash equivalents
(including restricted cash equivalents) are placed with high
credit quality financial institutions, and are primarily in
money market funds and U.S. Treasury Securities. The
concentration of credit risk associated with casino receivables
principally relates to receivables from customers from foreign
countries. The Company mitigates this risk by issuing credit to
customers after they have been reviewed for creditworthiness.
Management believes that there are no concentrations of credit
risk for which an allowance has not been established.

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities

Generally accepted accounting principles require that an entity
recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the
statement of financial position and measure those instruments at
fair value. If specific conditions are met, a derivative may be
specifically designated as a hedge of specific financial
exposures. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a
derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and, if
used in hedging activities, it depends on its effectiveness as a
hedge.

The Company has a policy aimed at managing interest rate risk
associated with its current and anticipated future borrowings.
This policy enables the Company to use any combination of
interest rate swaps, futures, options, caps and similar
instruments. To the extent the Company employs such financial
instruments pursuant to this policy, and the instruments qualify
for hedge accounting, they are accounted for as hedging
instruments. In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the
underlying hedged item must expose the Company to risks
associated with market fluctuations and the financial instrument
used must be designated as a hedge and must reduce the
Company’s exposure to market fluctuation throughout the
hedge period. If these criteria are not met, a change in the
market value of the financial instrument is recognized as a gain
or loss in results of operations in the period of change.
Otherwise, gains and losses are recognized in comprehensive
income or



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

loss except to the extent that the financial instrument is
disposed of prior to maturity. Net interest paid or received
pursuant to the financial instrument is included as interest
expense in the period.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),
“Share-Based Payment,” which supersedes APB
No. 25 and amends SFAS No. 95, “Statement of
Cash Flows.” This statement requires compensation costs
related to share-based payment transactions to be recognized in
financial statements. This statement also requires the benefits
of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to
be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an
operating cash flow. The provisions of this statement are
effective as of the first annual reporting period that begins
after June 15, 2005. This statement requires public
entities to measure the cost of employee services received in
exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the
grant-date fair value of the award (with limited exceptions).
This cost will be recognized over the period during which an
employee is required to provide service in exchange for the
award. This statement also addresses the accounting for the tax
effects of share-based compensation awards. The Company adopted
this standard as of January 1, 2006 using the modified
prospective application method. Under the modified prospective
application method, the Company will expense the cost of
share-based compensation awards issued after January 1,
2006. Additionally, the Company will recognize compensation cost
for the portion of awards outstanding on January 1, 2006
for which the requisite service has not been rendered as the
requisite service is to be rendered on or after January 1,
2006. Based on the stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2005, the Company estimates that for those
options, it will record approximately $5.0 million,
$4.6 million, $4.2 million and $1.2 million in
stock option expense for the years ending December 31,
2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. The Company can provide
no assurances that the actual amount of stock option expense to
be recorded in future years will approximate its current
estimates.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,
“Accounting Changes and Error Corrections — a
replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement
No. 3,” which changes the requirements for the
accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting
principle. SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary
changes in accounting principles, as well as to changes required
by an accounting pronouncement if the pronouncement does not
include specific transition provisions. This statement requires
retrospective application to prior periods’ financial
statements of changes in accounting principles.
SFAS No. 154 is effective for accounting changes and
corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2005. The Company does not expect the adoption
of SFAS No. 154 to have a material effect on its
consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash
flows.

Note 3 — Restricted Cash and Cash
Equivalents

As required by the Company’s Senior Secured Credit Facility
(See Note 7–Long-Term Debt–Senior Secured Credit
Facility), certain proceeds pursuant to draws under this
facility have been deposited into restricted accounts, invested
in cash or cash equivalents and pledged to a disbursement agent
for the Senior Secured Credit Facility lenders. This restricted
cash amount will be used as required for The Palazzo project
costs under disbursement terms specified in this facility. The
disbursement account is subject to a security interest in favor
of the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facility. As of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, The Palazzo disbursement
account balance was $571.1 million and $356.9 million,
respectively.

Current restricted cash and cash equivalents includes
$21.7 million and $19.3 million consisting primarily
of advance customer deposits for convention facility rentals
that have been paid pursuant to contractual terms for the years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and are
classified as restricted in accordance with the Interface
Mortgage Loan (See Note 7–Long-Term
Debt–Interface Mortgage Loan). In addition, current
restricted cash and cash equivalents includes a restricted cash
deposit of $50.0 million related to a



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

proposal to obtain a gaming license in Pennsylvania as of
December 31, 2005 and certain other restricted cash
balances of $1.2 million as of December 31, 2004.

Note 4 — Accounts Receivable, Net

Accounts receivable consists of the following (in thousands):

At December 31,



Casino

$

99,333

$

63,658

Hotel

29,943

18,095

Other

4,500

9,311

133,776

91,064

Less: allowance for doubtful accounts and discounts

(48,998

)

(34,482

)

$

84,778

$

56,582

The Company extends credit to approved casino customers
following background checks and investigations of
creditworthiness. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, a
substantial portion of the Company’s casino receivables
were due from customers residing in foreign countries. Business
or economic conditions, the legal enforceability of gaming
debts, or other significant events in these countries could
affect the collectibility of such receivables.

An estimated allowance for doubtful accounts and discounts is
maintained to reduce the Company’s receivables to their
estimated net realizable value. Although management believes the
allowance is adequate, it is possible that the estimated amount
of cash collections with respect to the accounts receivable
could change.

Note 5 — Property and Equipment, Net

Property and equipment consists of the following (in thousands):

At December 31,



Land and land improvements

$

202,285

$

170,056

Building and improvements

1,454,462

1,239,291

Equipment, furniture, fixtures and leasehold improvements

351,219

297,287

Construction in progress

957,752

319,640

2,965,718

2,026,274

Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization

(365,250

)

(270,184

)

$

2,600,468

$

1,756,090



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Construction in progress consists of the following (in
thousands):

At December 31,



The Sands Macao

$

22,153

$

3,549

The Venetian Macao

448,861

51,336

The Palazzo and Phase II Mall

454,227

205,165

Other (principally ongoing projects at The Venetian)

32,511

59,590

$

957,752

$

319,640

Capital expenditures during the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 were $860.6 million,
$465.7 million and $279.9 million, respectively. The
2005 expenditures were primarily comprised of construction of
The Palazzo, the Phase II Mall, and The Venetian Macao and
expansion and maintenance activities at The Venetian and The
Sands Macao. The 2004 and 2003 expenditures were primarily
comprised of construction activities on the
1,013-room Venezia tower, The Sands Macao, The Palazzo and
the Phase II Mall. During the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company capitalized interest expense of
$22.7 million, $4.6 million, and $5.6 million,
respectively.

Note 6 — Other Accrued Liabilities

Other accrued liabilities consist of the following (in
thousands):

At December 31,



Customer deposits

$

72,274

$

44,095

Payroll and related

43,301

27,080

Taxes and licenses

49,407

33,591

Outstanding gaming chips and tokens

46,033

12,648

Accrued dividends payable

—

21,052

Other accruals

35,375

32,052

$

246,390

$

170,518



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 7 — Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):

Senior Secured Credit Facility

On August 20, 2004, LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
entered into a senior secured credit facility with a syndicate
of lenders in an aggregate amount of $1.01 billion (the
“Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility”). The Prior
Senior Secured Credit Facility provided for a
$665.0 million single draw senior secured term loan
facility; a $105.0 million senior secured delayed draw
facility required to be drawn within six months; a
$115.0 million senior secured delayed draw facility,
required to be drawn within eighteen months; and a
$125.0 million senior secured revolving facility. As of
December 31, 2004, $665.0 million of indebtedness was
outstanding under the Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility.

On February 22, 2005, LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort,
LLC entered into an amended and restated senior secured credit
facility with a syndicate of lenders in an aggregate amount of
$1.62 billion (the “Senior Secured Credit
Facility”). The Senior Secured Credit Facility amended and
restated the Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility and provides
for a $970.0 million single draw senior secured term loan
facility (the “Term B Facility”), a
$200.0 million senior secured delayed draw facility (the
“Term B Delayed Draw Facility”), which was drawn in
full in August 2005; and a $450.0 million senior secured
revolving facility (the “Revolving Facility”). New
proceeds of $305.0 million from the Term B Facility were
used to retire the 11% Mortgage Notes as further discussed below.

The Term B Facility and Term B Delayed Draw Facility mature on
June 15, 2011 and when fully drawn are subject to quarterly
amortization payments in the amount of $2.9 million from
the first full fiscal quarter following substantial completion
of The Palazzo until June 30, 2010, followed by an
estimated four equal quarterly amortization payments of
approximately $284.5 million each until the maturity date.
The Revolving Facility matures in February 2010 and has no
interim amortization. As of December 31, 2005,
$31.0 million



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

had been drawn on the Revolving Facility. LVSLLC has guaranteed
borrowings under a $50.0 million credit facility of its
wholly owned subsidiary, Venetian Venture Development
Intermediate Limited (“Venetian Intermediate”), to
fund construction and development costs of The Sands Macao. This
guarantee is supported by a $50.0 million letter of credit
that was issued under the Revolving Facility. As a result of the
issuance of this letter of credit and the $31.0 million
draw, the amount available for working capital loans under the
Revolving Facility is $369.0 million as of
December 31, 2005.

The indebtedness under the Senior Secured Credit Facility is
guaranteed by certain of the Company’s domestic
subsidiaries (the “Guarantors”). The obligations under
the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the guarantees of the
Guarantors are secured by a first-priority security interest in
substantially all of LVSLLC’s and its wholly owned
subsidiary, Venetian Casino Resort, LLC’s (the owner of The
Venetian), and the Guarantors’ assets, other than capital
stock. Venetian Macau Limited, Venetian Intermediate and the
Company’s other Macao subsidiaries are not guarantors under
the Senior Secured Credit Facility and are not restricted
subsidiaries under the Senior Secured Credit Facility.
Borrowings under the term loan facilities and revolving loan
facilities bear interest, at the Company’s option, at
either an adjusted Eurodollar rate or at an alternative base
rate, plus a spread of 1.75% or 0.75%, respectively, which
spreads will decrease by 0.25% if the loans achieve a rating of
Ba2 or higher by Moody’s and BB or higher by
Standard & Poor’s subject to certain additional
conditions. The Senior Secured Credit Facility contains
affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary to such
financings. These covenants include restrictions on, among other
things, the ability of the borrowers to incur additional debt,
dispose of assets, and enter into sale and leaseback
transactions. The financial covenants include a minimum
consolidated net worth test, a minimum consolidated interest
coverage ratio, a maximum consolidated capital expenditure test
and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio. In addition, there
are provisions that limit or prohibit certain payments of
dividends or other distributions to LVSC. At December 31,
2005, the net assets of LVSLLC were $1.4 billion, a
substantial portion of which were restricted under the terms of
the Senior Secured Credit Facility.

The weighted average interest rate for the Senior Secured Credit
Facility was 5.3% during the year ended December 31, 2005
and for the Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility was 4.6% during
the year ended December 31, 2004.

The Company is required to maintain an interest rate cap
agreement to limit the impact of increases in interest rates on
its floating rate debt derived from the Senior Secured Credit
Facility. If the fixed portion of the Company’s outstanding
indebtedness falls below 50%, then the Company is obligated to
fix a portion of its floating rate debt to meet the 50%
requirement. To meet this requirement the Company entered into
an interest rate cap agreement during 2005 (the “Senior
Secured Credit Facility Cap Agreement”) that resulted in a
$1.8 million premium payment to counterparties based upon a
$500.0 million notional amount for a three year term. The
provisions of the Senior Secured Credit Facility Cap Agreement
entitle the Company to receive from the counterparties the
amounts, if any, by which the selected market interest rates
exceed the strike rate of 5.75% as stated in such agreement.
There was no net effect on interest expense as a result of the
Senior Secured Credit Facility Cap Agreement for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004. The notional amount of the
Senior Secured Credit Facility Cap Agreement (which expires on
March 30, 2008) at December 31, 2005 was
$500.0 million.

Senior Notes

On February 10, 2005, LVSC sold in a private placement
transaction $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of
its 6.375% Senior Notes due 2015 (the “Senior
Notes”) with an original issue discount of
$2.3 million. Net proceeds after offering costs and
original issue discount were $244.8 million. The Senior
Notes will mature on February 15, 2015. LVSC has the option
to redeem all or a portion of the Senior Notes at any time prior
to February 15, 2010 at a “make-whole” redemption
price. Thereafter, LVSC has the option to redeem all or a
portion of the Senior Notes at any time at fixed prices that
decline over time. In addition,



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

before February 15, 2008, LVSC may redeem up to 35% of the
aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes with the proceeds
of certain equity offerings at a redemption price equal to
106.375% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes. The Senior
Notes are unsecured senior obligations of LVSC and are jointly
and severally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain
of LVSC’s existing domestic subsidiaries (including LVSLLC
and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC). The Senior
Notes Indenture contains covenants that, subject to certain
exceptions and conditions, limit the ability of LVSC and the
subsidiary guarantors to enter into sale and leaseback
transactions in respect of their principal properties, create
liens on their principal properties and consolidate, merge or
sell all or substantially all their assets. The net proceeds of
the Senior Notes offering were utilized to complete the
retirement of the 11% Mortgage Notes as further described below.
In June 2005, the Senior Notes were exchanged for substantially
similar Senior Notes, which had been registered under the
federal securities laws.

Interface Mortgage Loan

On July 30, 2004, Interface entered into a mortgage loan
(the “Interface Mortgage Loan”) pursuant to which it
borrowed $100.0 million to repay a portion of its prior
indebtedness. Interface’s obligations under the loan are
secured by a first priority mortgage on The Sands Expo Center
and by certain other related collateral. Interface must repay in
full all amounts outstanding under the Interface Mortgage Loan
by August 1, 2006, unless it exercises its renewal options.
Interface has two

one-year

and one

six-month

renewal
options. If Interface exercises all of the renewal options then
the loan must be repaid no later than January 30, 2009. The
loan amortizes pursuant to a

20-year

mortgage
schedule, based on a 9.25% interest rate amortization. If cash
flow of Interface (as defined by the loan agreement) is
available after the payment of interest and mandatory
amortization, tax and insurance reserve amounts, operating
expenses, capital expenditures and a reserve for advanced
customer deposits, additional principal payments must be made
equal to the difference between (i) the principal payments
necessary to amortize the loan pursuant to a

15-year

schedule, based
on a 7.0% interest rate and (ii) the amortization payment
required by the aforementioned 9.25% amortization schedule. The
loan bears interest at an interest rate equal to LIBOR plus
3.75%. The loan may be prepaid in whole or in part at par. The
weighted average interest rate on the Interface Mortgage Loan
was 6.9% and 5.5% during the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively. At December 31, 2005, the Company
has classified this debt as long-term because it has both the
ability and intent to exercise the first

one-year

renewal option.

Phase II Mall Construction Loan

On September 30, 2004, two wholly owned subsidiaries of the
Company, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC and Phase II Mall
Subsidiary, LLC (the “Phase II Mall Subsidiary”),
entered into a construction loan agreement with a group of
lenders. The agreement provides for delayed draw loans in an
aggregate principal amount of $250.0 million. The proceeds
are being used to fund the design, development, and construction
of the Phase II Mall. The loan is secured by a
first-priority security interest in substantially all of the
borrowers’ assets, other than capital stock. The loan bears
interest, at the borrowers’ option, at either an adjusted
Eurodollar rate plus 1.75% or an alternative base rate plus
0.75%. Interest is payable on the base rate loans on a quarterly
basis and is payable on Eurodollar loans at the end of the
applicable interest period. The loan is due in full on
March 31, 2008 and there is no interim amortization. The
Company has agreed to repay the loan from the proceeds of the
Phase II Mall sale (See Note 14 — Mall
Sale). As of December 31, 2005, there was
$28.5 million outstanding under this facility. There were
no amounts outstanding under this facility as of
December 31, 2004. The weighted average interest rate on
the Phase II Mall construction loan was 5.5% for the year
ended December 31, 2005.

To meet the requirements of the Phase II Mall construction
loan, the Company entered into an interest rate cap agreement
during December 2004 (the “Phase II Mall Cap
Agreement”) that resulted in a premium payment to
counterparties based upon $125 million notional amount for
a term equal to the term of the Phase II Mall Construction
Loan. The provisions of the Phase II Mall Cap Agreement
entitle the Company to



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

receive from the counterparties the amounts, if any, by which
the selected market interest rates exceed the strike rate of
6.0% as stated in such agreement. There was no net effect on
interest expense as a result of the Phase II Mall Cap
Agreement for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.
The notional amount of the Phase II Mall Cap Agreement
(which expires on June 1, 2007) at December 31, 2005
was $36.6 million.

FF&E Financing

In September 2003, the Company and a lender entered into a
credit facility (the “FF&E Credit Facility”) to
provide $15.0 million of financing for an expansion of The
Venetian. The proceeds from the FF&E Credit Facility were
used to finance certain furniture, fixtures, and equipment (the
“Specified FF&E”) for this expansion and the
facility is secured by the Specified FF&E. The FF&E
Credit Facility provides for a

60-month

basic term
loan. Interest on the term loan is three-month LIBOR plus 3.0%
and is payable quarterly. The FF&E Credit Facility is
subject to nineteen quarterly amortization payments of $600,000
beginning January 1, 2004, and one final payment of
$3,600,000 on October 1, 2008. The weighted average
interest rate for the FF&E Credit Facility was 6.3% and 4.5%
during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Mortgage Notes

On June 4, 2002, LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
issued $850.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 11%
mortgage notes due 2010 (the “Mortgage Notes”). The
Mortgage Notes bore interest at 11%, payable each
June 15th and December 15th. The Mortgage Notes
were redeemable at the option of LVSLLC and Venetian Casino
Resort, LLC at prices ranging from 100% to 105.5% commencing on
or after June 15, 2006, as set forth in the Mortgage Notes
and the indenture pursuant to which the Mortgage Notes were
issued (the “Indenture”). Prior to June 15, 2006,
LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC could redeem the Mortgage
Notes at their principal amount plus an applicable make-whole
premium. On or prior to June 15, 2005, the Company could
redeem up to 35% of the Mortgage Notes with the net cash
proceeds of one or more offerings of equity securities at a
redemption price of 111% of the principal amount of the Mortgage
Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.

As a result of the consummation of the Mall Sale on May 17,
2004 (as further described in Note 14 — Mall
Sale), LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC were obligated to
use the Excess Proceeds (as defined under the Indenture) from
the Mall Sale to make an offer to purchase the maximum principal
amount of Mortgage Notes that could be purchased out of the
Excess Proceeds of the Mall Sale at an offer price in cash equal
to 100% of the principal amount of the Mortgage Notes, plus
accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, to
the closing date of the offer (the “Asset Sale
Offer”). The Asset Sale Offer closed on June 6, 2004,
and $6.4 million of Mortgage Notes were tendered and
re-purchased by the Company.

During February 2005, LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
exercised an equity claw back under the Indenture pursuant to
which the Company retired $291.1 million of the Mortgage
Notes and paid $32.0 million of redemption premiums with
the proceeds from LVSC’s initial public offering.
Additionally, LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC retired
$542.3 million in aggregate principal amount of the
Mortgage Notes pursuant to a tender offer plus a make-whole
premium and accrued interest of $90.3 million, with
proceeds from the Senior Notes offering, cash on hand and
proceeds from the Senior Secured Credit Facility. The total
consideration paid to the tendering holders was
$1,166.56 per $1,000 principal amount of Mortgage Notes
(including a consent payment of $30 per $1,000 principal
amount of Mortgage Notes tendered prior to February 1,
2005). During March 2005, LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
redeemed the remaining $10.2 million aggregate principal
amount of the outstanding Mortgage Notes at a price equal to
100% of the principal amount thereof plus a make-whole premium
and accrued interest.

The Company incurred a charge of approximately
$132.8 million for loss on early retirement of indebtedness
during 2005 as a result of retiring the Mortgage Notes.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Venetian Intermediate Credit Facility

On March 27, 2003, Venetian Intermediate entered into a
credit agreement (the “Venetian Intermediate Credit
Agreement”) with a lender to provide $50.0 million of
financing for The Sands Macao. Venetian Intermediate owns 90% of
the capital stock and 100% of the economic interest in the
shares of Venetian Macau Limited (“Venetian Macau”),
the owner and operator of The Sands Macao. The obligations under
the loans to be made under the Venetian Intermediate Credit
Agreement are guaranteed by LVSLLC and Venetian Casino Resort,
LLC and are supported by a letter of credit, which has been
issued under the Revolving Facility in favor of the Venetian
Intermediate Credit Agreement lender. As a result of the
issuance of the letter of credit, the amounts available for
working capital loans under the Revolving Facility have been
reduced on a dollar for dollar basis. The amounts outstanding
under the Venetian Intermediate Credit Agreement bear interest
at the base rate or the adjusted Eurodollar rate plus
0.5% per annum. Interest is payable on the base rate loans
on a quarterly basis and is payable on Eurodollar loans at the
end of the applicable interest period, and there is no scheduled
principal amortization. The credit facility is due in full on
March 27, 2006. The Company intends to refinance this
facility when due by utilizing availability under its Revolving
Facility. Accordingly the $50.0 million has been classified
as long-term. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
$50.0 million was outstanding under the Venetian
Intermediate Credit Agreement and was supported by a
$50.0 million of letter of credit issued under the
Revolving Facility. The weighted average interest rate on the
Venetian Intermediate Credit Facility was 3.8% and 1.8% for the
years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Venetian Macao Senior Secured Notes

On August 21, 2003, a wholly owned subsidiary of Venetian
Macau, Venetian Macau Finance Company, issued
$120.0 million in aggregate principal amount of floating
rate senior secured notes due August 2008 (the “Venetian
Macao Senior Secured Notes”). The Venetian Macao Senior
Secured Notes issued by Venetian Macau Finance Company were
guaranteed by Venetian Macau. All assets of Venetian Macau and
its subsidiaries secured the Venetian Macao Senior Secured Notes
and restrictions had been placed on the payment of dividends to
LVSLLC and its subsidiaries from Venetian Macau and its
subsidiaries. All of the proceeds from the issuance of the
Venetian Macao Senior Secured Notes had been utilized for the
construction of The Sands Macao.

$75.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the Venetian
Macao Senior Secured Notes bore interest at the rate of three
month LIBOR plus 3.25%, payable quarterly, and
$45.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the Venetian
Macao Senior Secured Notes bore interest at the rate of three
month LIBOR plus 4.00%, payable quarterly. The weighted average
interest rate on the Venetian Macao Senior Secured Notes was
6.2% and 5.1% during the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively.

On May 23, 2005, the Company utilized existing cash to
retire the Venetian Macao Senior Secured Notes and incurred a
charge of $4.2 million for loss on early retirement of
indebtedness.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Scheduled Maturities of Long-Term Debt

Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31,
2005 are summarized as follows (in thousands):


$

7,325


96,001


45,600


11,700


655,763

Thereafter

818,912

$

1,635,301

Estimated fair values of the Company’s debt and related
financial instruments are as follows (in thousands):

The fair values of the Mortgage Notes and Senior Notes are based
on quoted market prices. The fair values of other indebtedness
approximate their respective carrying amounts based on the
variable interest rate nature of these facilities. The fair
value of the interest rate cap agreements are based upon quotes
from brokers.

Note 8 — Acquisition of Interface and
Redeemable Preferred Interest in Venetian Casino Resort, LLC

On July 29, 2004, LVSLLC acquired all of the capital stock
of Interface from the Principal Stockholder in exchange for the
issuance to the Principal Stockholder of 220,370 additional
shares of LVSLLC’s common stock (which converted to
58,625,638 shares of LVSC in the Merger). Interface
indirectly owned The Sands Expo Center and held a
$255.2 million redeemable preferred interest in Venetian
Casino Resort, LLC. The acquisition of Interface by LVSLLC has
been accounted for as a reorganization of entities under common
control, in a manner similar to

pooling-of

-interests.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following information presents certain income statement data
of the separate companies for the periods preceding the Merger
(in thousands):

The companies provided certain facilities usage and travel
charges to each other and such revenues and expenses have been
eliminated in consolidation as noted in the above table. There
were no adjustments to conform the accounting policies of the
companies and since both companies shared the same fiscal year
end there were no adjustments necessary related to changing the
fiscal year of Interface.

Note 9 — Stock-Based Employee Compensation

The Company has two nonqualified stock option plans, which
provide for the granting of stock options pursuant to the
applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and
regulations.

LVSLLC 1997 Fixed Stock Option Plan

The 1997 Plan provides for 19,952,457 shares (on a
post-split basis) of common stock of LVSLLC to be reserved for
issuance to officers and other key employees or consultants of
LVSLLC or any LVSLLC Affiliates or Subsidiaries (each as defined
in the 1997 Plan) pursuant to options granted under the 1997
Plan.

The 1997 Plan provides that the Principal Stockholder may, at
any time, assume the 1997 Plan or certain obligations under the
1997 Plan, in which case the Principal Stockholder will have all
the rights, powers, and responsibilities granted LVSLLC or its
board of directors under the 1997 Plan with respect to such
assumed obligations. The Principal Stockholder assumed
LVSLLC’s obligations under the 1997 Plan to sell shares to
optionees upon the exercise of their options with respect to
options granted prior to July 15, 2004. LVSLLC is
responsible for all other obligations under the 1997 Plan. LVSC
assumed all of the obligations of LVSLLC and the Principal
Stockholder under the 1997 Plan (other than the obligation of
the Principal Stockholder to issue 984,321 shares under
options granted prior to July 15, 2004), in connection with
its initial public offering.

2004 Awards under the 1997 Plan.

On July 30, 2004,
fully vested options to purchase 3,052,460 shares of
LVSLLC’s common stock were granted by the board of
directors under the 1997 Plan at an exercise price of
$5.64 per share. Each of these options could only be
exercised by the delivery of cash or check, or its equivalent.
Four employees of the Company received options to
purchase 942,820, 707,115, 471,410, and 931,115,
respectively, shares of common stock. On August 2, 2004,
one employee exercised all of the options granted to him.
Another employee exercised options granted to him to acquire
353,558 shares of common stock on August 2, 2004 and
353,558 shares of common stock on November 30, 2004.
Another employee exercised options granted to him to
purchase 235,705 shares of common stock on
August 2, 2004 and 235,705 shares of common stock on
November 30, 2004. The final employee exercised all of the
options



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

granted to him during 2005. The board of directors agreed not to
grant any additional options under the 1997 Plan following the
initial public offering and no options remain outstanding under
the 1997 Plan as of December 31, 2005.

Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan

The Company adopted the 2004 Plan for grants of its common
stock, which were made to participants immediately prior to and
following the consummation of its initial public offering. The
purpose of the 2004 Plan is to give the Company a competitive
edge in attracting, retaining, and motivating employees,
directors and consultants and to provide the Company with a
stock plan providing incentives directly related to increases in
its stockholder value.

Administration.

The Company’s compensation committee
administers the 2004 Plan. Except in the case of awards to
non-employee directors which are administered by the
Company’s board of directors, the compensation committee
has the authority to determine the terms and conditions of any
agreements evidencing any awards granted under the 2004 Plan,
and to adopt, alter and repeal rules, guidelines and practices
relating to the 2004 Plan. The compensation committee has full
discretion to administer and interpret the 2004 Plan, to adopt
such rules, regulations, and procedures, as it deems necessary
or advisable and to determine among other things the time or
times at which the awards may be exercised and whether and under
what circumstances an award may be exercised. The compensation
committee has formed a sub-committee to administer those
portions of the 2004 Plan that require administration by
directors meeting certain independence standards.

Eligibility.

Any of the Company’s subsidiaries’
or affiliates’ employees, directors, officers or
consultants are eligible for awards under the 2004 Plan. The
compensation committee has the sole and complete authority to
determine who will be granted an award under the 2004 Plan
(except in the case of awards to non-employee directors, which
are made by the board of directors).

Number of Shares Authorized.

The 2004 Plan provides for
an aggregate of 26,344,000 shares of the Company’s
common stock to be available for awards. No participant may be
granted awards of options and stock appreciation rights with
respect to more than 3,000,000 shares of common stock in
any one year. If any award is forfeited, or if any option
terminates, expires, or lapses without being exercised, shares
of the Company’s common stock subject to such award will
again be available for future grant. If there is any change in
the Company’s corporate capitalization, the compensation
committee in its sole discretion may make substitutions or
adjustments to the number of shares reserved for issuance under
the 2004 Plan, the number of shares covered by awards then
outstanding under the 2004 Plan, the limitations on awards under
the 2004 Plan, the exercise price of outstanding options and
such other equitable substitution or adjustments as it may
determine appropriate.

The 2004 Plan has a term of ten years and no further awards may
be granted after the expiration of the term.

Awards Available for Grant.

The compensation committee
may grant awards of nonqualified stock options, incentive
(qualified) stock options, stock appreciation rights,
restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, stock bonus
awards, performance compensation awards or any combination of
the foregoing. As of December 31, 2005, there were
24,227,152 shares available for grant under the 2004 Plan.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Option Awards

A summary of the status of the 1997 Plan and 2004 Plan for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 is presented
below:

The following tables summarize additional information regarding
the options, which were granted under the 1997 Plan and 2004
Plan and were outstanding at December 31, 2005, 2004, and
2003.




Options exercisable at December 31

234,210

984,322

532,066

Weighted average exercise price per share

$

29.00

$

5.39

$

1.02

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted

Average

Weighted

Weighted

Remaining

Average

Average

Number

Contract

Exercise

Number

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Outstanding

Life (Year)

Price

Exercisable

Price

$29.00 - $30.54

1,960,140

9.0

$

29.11

234,210

$

29.00

$37.18 - $47.70

137,820

9.5

$

40.06

—

—

2,097,960

Restricted Stock Awards

Restricted stock grants totaling 8,088 shares were issued
under the 2004 Plan during the year ended December 31,
2005. No grants occurred during the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003. The grant price per share of
the awards was $37.09 and they vest over one year. The effect of
these grants is to increase the issued and outstanding shares of
the Company’s common stock and to decrease the number of
shares available for grant in the 2004 Plan. Deferred
compensation is recorded for the restricted stock grants equal
to the market value of the Company’s common stock on the
date of grant. The deferred compensation is amortized over the
period the restricted stock vests and is recorded as
compensation expense in the accompanying



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

consolidated statements of operations. During the year ended
December 31, 2005, $0.2 million was recorded as
compensation expense.

Note 10 — Employee Savings Plan

Participation in the Venetian Casino Resort, LLC 401(k) employee
savings plan is available for all full-time employees. The
savings plan allows participants to defer, on a pre-tax basis, a
portion of their salary and accumulate tax-deferred earnings as
a retirement fund. The Company matches 150% of the first $390 of
employee contributions and 50% of employee contributions in
excess of $390 up to a maximum of 3% of participating
employee’s eligible gross wages. For the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company’s
matching contributions under the savings plan were
$3.1 million, $2.7 million, and $2.2 million,
respectively.

Note 11 — Related Party Transactions

The Principal Stockholder is a partner in four entities that
operate restaurants in The Venetian. The terms and conditions of
the leases granted by the Company for such restaurants were at
amounts which management believed would be no less favorable
than those negotiated with independent third parties. Valentino
Las Vegas LLC and Night Market, LLC paid Venetian
$0.5 million and $1.0 million, and Postrio Las Vegas
LLC and Carnevale Coffee Bar LLC paid the Grand Canal
Shops II, LLC (the “Mall Subsidiary”)
$0.5 million and $1.1 million for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company
purchased the lease interest and assets of Carnevale Coffee Bar
LLC during 2003 for $3.1 million, payable in installments
of $0.6 million during 2003, and $0.3 million annually
over ten years, beginning in 2004 through September 1, 2013.

As a result of the sale of the Mall (See
Note 14 — Mall Sale), there were no amounts paid
to the Company for the year ended December 31, 2005 from
the entities noted above.

During 2003, the Company purchased tower cranes from the
Principal Stockholder for $0.8 million and prior to the
purchase paid the Principal Stockholder $1.2 million of
rent for the tower cranes for use during an expansion project at
The Venetian.

The Company paid approximately $3.1 million and
$3.0 million during 2004 and 2005, respectively, to GWV
Travel, a travel agent and charter tour operator for travel
related services. GWV Travel is controlled by the Principal
Stockholder.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Principal
Stockholder purchased certain banquet room and catering goods
and services from The Venetian of approximately
$1.0 million.

The Company purchased hotel guest amenities from a company that
is controlled by the Principal Stockholder’s brother. The
total amount paid was approximately $1.8 million and
$2.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively. In 2004, the Company also paid the
Principal Stockholder’s brother a finder’s fee of
$1.3 million in connection with securing an agreement with
a laundry provider.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company
incurred and paid certain expenses totaling $0.7 million to
its Principal Stockholder related to the Company’s use of
his personal aircraft for business purposes. In addition, during
the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company charged and
received from the Principal Stockholder $1.2 million
related to aviation costs incurred by the Company for the
Principal Stockholder’s use of Company aviation personnel
and assets for personal purposes.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company incurred certain
expenses and had certain payables totaling $1.7 million and
$0.9 million, respectively to its Principal Stockholder
related to the Company’s use of his personal aircraft for
business purposes.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2003, the Company had certain
receivables from its Principal Stockholder totaling
$1.3 million, for advances Interface had made on his behalf
related to his aircraft. As further described in Note 16,
certain assets, including this receivable, were distributed to
the Principal Stockholder immediately prior to LVSLLC’s
acquisition of Interface in July 2004.

In April 2003, the Company made loans totaling $0.8 million
to certain of its executive officers. The loans bore interest at
the greater of 4% per annum and an applicable short-term
federal rate. The loans were to mature on the earlier of
December 31, 2010, the date any public offering of the
Company’s shares commences pursuant to a registration
statement and the date on which the borrower disposes of any of
his shares of the Company. Such loans were repaid in September
2004.

Note 12 —

Commitments and Contingencies

Construction Litigation

The construction of the principal components of The Venetian was
undertaken by Lehrer McGovern Bovis, Inc. (“Bovis”)
pursuant to a construction management agreement. Bovis’
obligations were guaranteed by its corporate parent companies.
In 1999, Venetian Casino Resort, LLC filed a complaint against
Bovis in the United States District Court for the District of
Nevada relating to the construction of The Venetian. In
response, Bovis filed a complaint against Venetian Casino
Resort, LLC in the District Court of Clark County, Nevada (the
“State Court Action”). Commencing in 2000, the Company
participated with Bovis in certain arbitration proceedings
ordered by the federal court. Pursuant to an agreement between
the parties, certain claims brought by Bovis relating to
infrastructure for The Palazzo, which is currently under
construction (the “Lido Claims”), were severed from
the State Court Action and have been settled as discussed below.

The Company purchased an insurance policy for loss coverage in
connection with all litigation relating to the construction of
The Venetian (the “Insurance Policy”). Under the
Insurance Policy, the Company self-insured the first
$45.0 million of covered losses (excluding defense costs)
and the insurance company (the “Insurer”) insured
defense costs and other covered losses up to the next
$80.0 million. The principal exclusions from coverage under
the Insurance Policy are lien claims of Bovis’
subcontractors directly against the Company (“Direct
Claims”) and the Lido Claims.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company paid
$13.5 million and $5.8 million to resolve the Lido
Claims and three Direct Claims, respectively, parts of which
were applied to the $45.0 million self-insured retention
amount. In addition, the Company entered into a global
settlement (the “Agreement”) with Bovis and the
Insurer. Pursuant to the Agreement, Bovis has released the
Company from further liability to it in the litigation in
exchange for certain payments described below. In addition, the
Insurer agreed to indemnify the Company from further liability
for ongoing Direct Claims, except as described below in
connection with claims under the Owner Controlled Insurance
Program (“OCIP”) for the project.

Pursuant to the Agreement the Company paid $30.7 million,
which represents the balance of its self-insured retention under
the Insurance Policy, in part to Bovis and in part to a Bovis
subcontractor to resolve that subcontractor’s Direct Claim.
The Company has no further liabilities in connection with the
matter, except as described below with regard to the OCIP claims.

Pursuant to the Agreement, the Company assigned most of its
rights to its remaining construction defect claims against
Bovis’ subcontractors to the Insurer and the Insurer agreed
to indemnify the Company and hold it harmless from all remaining
exposure from outstanding Direct Claims, except for certain
exposures which might be created in connection with the OCIP
claims as described below. The Company also agreed to dismiss
its construction defect claims against Bovis. In addition, the
Company agreed with the Insurer that the Insurance Policy would
be deemed satisfied and terminated upon the satisfaction of
certain conditions relating to the formal dismissals of the
various matters covered by the settlement.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Under the Agreement, the Company retained the right to bring
claims against certain Bovis subcontractors for amounts owed to
the Company for its provision of insurance coverage to those
subcontractors on the project through the OCIP. Neither Bovis
nor the Insurer have indemnified the Company if a subcontractor
against which it brings an OCIP claim counter-claims against the
Company in response. The Company has not decided at this time
whether to bring any OCIP claims, however it believes any OCIP
related counter-claim exposure will not be material.

The various dismissals required by the Agreement will be filed
with the appropriate courts soon and should become final during
the first quarter 2006.

In connection with the aforementioned aggregate
$50.0 million of settlement payments, the Company
capitalized $37.3 million of these amounts as building
related construction costs and treated $12.7 million of
these amounts as interest expense. In addition, the Company
recorded $7.0 million of depreciation expense during the
year associated with the additional capitalized building related
construction costs. The Company does not expect to incur any
further charges in connection with this matter.

Litigation Relating to Macao Operations

On October 15, 2004, Richard Suen and Round Square Company
Limited filed an action against LVSC, LVSLLC, Sheldon G.
Adelson, and William P. Weidner in the District Court of Clark
County, Nevada, asserting a breach of an alleged agreement to
pay a success fee of $5.0 million and 2.0% of the net
profit from the Company’s Macao resort operations to the
plaintiffs as well as other related claims. In March 2005, LVSC
was dismissed as a party without prejudice based on a
stipulation to do so between the parties. On May 17, 2005,
the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. The defendants
responded with a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim
upon which relief can be granted. On August 23, 2005, the
court postponed ruling on the motion to dismiss and allowed for
limited discovery in order to address defendant’s assertion
that plaintiffs cannot plead fraud with sufficient
particularity. A hearing on the motion to dismiss has been
scheduled for March 6, 2006. Other than the motion to
dismiss, there is currently no pending activity in the matter.
This action is in a preliminary stage and the Company’s
legal counsel has advised that based on proceedings to date, the
probability of recovery by the plaintiffs is remote. The Company
intends to defend this matter vigorously.

On January 26, 2006, Clive Basset Jones, Darryl Steven
Turok a/k/a Dax Turok, and Cheong Jose Vai Chi a/k/a Cliff
Cheong, filed an action against Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas
Sands, LLC, Venetian Venture Development, LLC and various
unspecified individuals and companies in the District Court of
Clark County, Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of an
agreement to pay a success fee in an amount equal to
five-percent of the ownership interest in the LVSC entity that
owns and operates the Macau SAR gaming subconcession as well as
other related claims. Other than the complaint which has been
filed, and the Company’s answer, there is currently no
pending activity in the matter. This action is in a preliminary
stage and the Company’s legal counsel has advised that
based on proceedings to date, the probability of recovery by the
plaintiffs is remote. The Company intends to defend this matter
vigorously.

Interface Nevada Litigation

On October 17, 2003, Bear Stearns Funding, Inc. filed a
lawsuit against Interface Group-Nevada, the Company’s
subsidiary that owns The Sands Expo Center. The plaintiff is
seeking damages against Interface Group-Nevada for alleged
breach of contract in the amount of approximately
$1.5 million, plus interest and costs. The claim asserts
that the amount is due as an agreed-upon additional fee in
connection with Interface Group-Nevada’s prior
$141.0 million mortgage loan, which was paid off in July
2004. Interface Group-Nevada has asserted six counter-claims
against the plaintiff. The counterclaims against Bear Stearns
allege that Bear Stearns’ sale of a subordinated component
of the loan to a competitor constituted a breach of the loan
agreement and a related agreement, that its transmission of
information in connection with that sale constituted a
misappropriation of Interface Group-Nevada’s trade secrets,
and that it misrepresented to



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Interface Group-Nevada certain facts regarding the purchaser of
the subordinated component. The counterclaims also allege that
the Bear Stearns’ demand that Interface Group-Nevada
purchase insurance not required by the loan agreement was
motivated by Bear Stearns’ exclusion from participating in
another financing, and that this action constituted a prima
facie tort under New York law, and together with the other
actions alleged in the counterclaims, constituted a breach of
Bear Stearns’ duty of good faith and fair dealing. The
counterclaims sought damages in an amount to be determined at
trial but not less than $1.5 million, plus punitive damages
of not less than $3.0 million on the fraud and prima facie
tort causes of action. Plaintiff filed a motion for summary
judgment on the complaint seeking (i) judgment on the
complaint in the approximate amount of $1.5 million plus
interest, costs and attorneys fees, and (ii) dismissal of
the counterclaims other than the two breach of contract
counterclaims (the “Motion”). By Opinion and Order
dated March 21, 2005, the Motion was denied in part and
granted in part. The Court denied Bear Stearns’ motion for
judgment on the complaint, granted Bear Stearns’ motion to
dismiss the counterclaims alleging misappropriation of trade
secrets, prima facie tort, and fraud, and granted the request to
dismiss one of the two bases of the counterclaim alleging a
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This
matter is now in the discovery phase. Interface Group-Nevada and
its legal counsel are currently not able to determine the
probability of the outcome of these matters.

Shareholder Derivative Litigation

Two shareholder derivative complaints, brought by plaintiffs
Lily Walker and James Roberts, Jr., were filed in the
District Court, Clark County, Nevada in August 2005 against Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (as a nominal defendant) and several of its
officers and directors, including Sheldon G. Adelson, Irwin
Chafetz, Charles D. Forman, Robert G. Goldstein, Michael A.
Leven, James J. Purcell, Irwin A. Siegel, Bradley H. Stone, and
William P. Weidner. The two actions were consolidated under the
lead case, and are now captioned

“In re Las Vegas Sands
Corp. Shareholder Litigation”

Case No. A507820.
The consolidated complaint alleges breach of fiduciary duty and
unjust enrichment causes of action, including that the
compensation paid to certain of the Company’s officers
pursuant to their employment and other agreements was excessive,
and that the approval of this compensation by certain directors
was improper. The individual defendants filed a motion to
dismiss the allegations of the consolidated complaint for
failure to state a claim in October 2005, to which the Company
filed a joinder. Following a hearing on that motion, the court
dismissed the complaint on January 30, 2006 ending the
matter.

The Company is involved in other litigation arising in the
normal course of business. Management has made certain estimates
for potential litigation costs based upon consultation with
legal counsel. Actual results could differ from these estimates;
however, in the opinion of management, such litigation and
claims will not have a material effect on the Company’s
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Macao Projects

On June 26, 2002, the Macao government granted a concession
to operate casinos in Macao through June 26, 2022, subject
to certain qualifications, to Galaxy Casino Company Limited, a
consortium of Macao and Hong Kong-based investors
(“Galaxy”) on the condition that Venetian Macau be the
management company. During December 2002, Venetian Macau and
Galaxy entered into a subconcession agreement which was
recognized and approved by the Macao government and allows
Venetian Macau to develop and operate casino projects, including
The Sands Macao, separately from Galaxy. The Sands Macao opened
on May 18, 2004. Additional facilities, including
restaurants and entertainment venues and 49 of 52 high-end
suites opened during late August 2004 and additional
improvements have opened from time to time throughout 2005. In
addition to The Sands Macao, the Company also intends to build
The Venetian Macao in Macao.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Under the subconcession agreement, Venetian Macau was obligated
to develop and open The Venetian Macao by June 2006 and a
convention center by December 2006, and invest, or cause to be
invested, at least 4.4 billion patacas (approximately
$527.4 million at exchange rates in effect on
December 31, 2005) in various development projects in Macao
by June 2009. The Company has spent more than the required
minimum amount. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the
Company received an extension of the June and December 2006
construction deadlines for The Venetian Macao and the convention
center to December 2007. The Company currently expects to
open The Venetian Macao and the convention center in mid-2007.
If the Company fails to meet the December 2007 deadline,
the Company could lose its right to continue to operate The
Sands Macao or any other facilities developed under its Macao
gaming subconcession and its investment to date in construction
of The Venetian Macao could be lost. To support this obligation,
a Macao bank and a subsidiary of the Company, Lido Casino Resort
Holding Company, LLC, have guaranteed 500 million patacas
(approximately $59.9 million at exchange rates in effect on
December 31, 2005) of Venetian Macau’s legal and
contractual obligations to the Macao government until
March 31, 2007. Venetian Macau has granted a junior lien on
the Venetian Macau’s rights over the land upon which The
Sands Macao is constructed to support the guarantee issued by
the Macao bank under the Venetian Macau subconcession.

Under the subconcession, the Company is obligated to pay to the
Macao government an annual premium with a fixed portion and a
variable portion based on the number and type of gaming tables
it employs and gaming machines it operates. The fixed portion of
the premium is equal to 30 million patacas (approximately
$3.6 million at exchange rates in effect on
December 31, 2005). The variable portion is equal to
300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for
certain kinds of games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming
table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical or
mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines
(approximately $35,959, $17,980 and $120, respectively, at
exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2005), subject to
a minimum of 45 million patacas (or $5.4 million at
exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2005). The Company
is also obligated to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross
gaming revenues and applicable withholding taxes. The Company
must also contribute 4% of its gross gaming revenue to utilities
designated by the Macao government, a portion of which must be
used for promotion of tourism in Macao. As of December 31,
2005, the Company was obligated under its subconcession to make
minimum future payments of approximately $9.0 million in
each of the next five years and approximately
$103.4 million thereafter through June 2022.

Currently, the gaming tax in Macao is calculated as a percentage
of gross gaming revenue. However, unlike Nevada, gross gaming
revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a
result, if the Company extends credit to its customers in Macao
and is unable to collect on the related receivables, the Company
must pay taxes on its winnings from these customers even though
it was unable to collect on the related receivables. If the laws
are not changed, the Company’s business in Macao may not be
able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to its
customers. Although there are proposals to revise the gaming tax
laws in Macao, there can be no assurance that the laws will be
changed.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

During 2003, Venetian Macau entered into a

25-year

land lease
agreement with the Macao government for six acre parcel of the
land on which The Sands Macao was constructed. The land
concession will expire in 2028 and is renewable. The land
concession requires the Company to pay a premium which is
payable over a number of years. In addition, the Company is also
obligated to pay rent annually for the term of the land
concession. The rent amount may be revised every five years by
the Macao government. As of December 31, 2005, Venetian
Macau was obligated under its leases to make future payments as
follows (in thousands):


$

2,869


2,869


2,869





Thereafter

2,802

$

11,721

During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the
Company recorded $0.7 million and $0.5 million in
rental expense related to this land lease.

The Company commenced construction of The Venetian Macao prior
to obtaining a land concession from the Macao government which
holds title to the land. The Company has applied to the Macao
government for a land concession for a portion of the west side
of the Cotai Strip, including the site of The Venetian Macao.
The land concession will require the Company to pay certain
premiums and rent. The Company is in negotiation with the Macao
government over the cost of the land concession. The Company
believes it will be successful in obtaining the land concession.
However, in the event the Company is unable to successfully
conclude its negotiations with the Macao government with regard
to the land underlying The Venetian Macao, the Company could
lose all or a substantial part of its investment in the creation
of the land and in constructing The Venetian Macao.

Energy Services Agreements

During 1997, Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface, and others
entered into separate energy service agreements with a heating,
ventilation, and air conditioning (“HVAC”) provider
(the “HVAC Provider”). Under the terms of the energy
services agreement and other separate energy services
agreements, HVAC energy and services will be purchased by
Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface, and others over initial
terms expiring in 2009 with an option to collectively extend the
terms of their agreements for two consecutive five-year periods.
The HVAC plant was constructed on land owned by the Company and
leased to the HVAC Provider. The HVAC equipment is owned by the
HVAC Provider, which paid all costs (“HVAC Costs”) in
connection with the purchase and installation of the HVAC
equipment. The total HVAC Costs were $70.0 million. The
charges payable under the separate energy services agreements
include a fixed component applied to the HVAC Costs paid by the
HVAC Provider, reimbursement of operational and related costs
and a management fee.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2005, Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and
Interface were obligated under the energy services agreements to
make future minimum payments as follows (in thousands):

Years Ending December 31,


$

6,828


6,828


6,828


3,414


—

Total minimum payments

$

23,898

Expenses incurred under the energy services agreements were
$6.8 million, $7.4 million and $8.5 million for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003,
respectively.

Operating Lease Agreements

The Company is party to other operating lease agreements, which
are short-term and variable-rate in nature. Expenses incurred
under these operating lease agreements totaled
$1.6 million, $1.7 million and $1.7 million for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003,
respectively.

Other Ventures and Commitments

During 2003, the Company entered into three lease termination
and asset purchase agreements with The Grand Canal Shops mall
tenants. The first agreement provided for payments by the
Company to a tenant of $0.8 million during 2003, with 27
additional annual payments of $0.4 million, thereafter. The
second agreement provided for an initial deposit of
$5.0 million, which was paid by the Company during May 2003
and 15 subsequent monthly payments totaling $10.0 million
beginning January 2004 plus interest at 6.0% per annum. The
third agreement provided for an initial payment of
$0.5 million during 2003 and subsequent quarterly payments
of $0.1 million for ten years. In each case, the Company
has obtained title to leasehold improvements and other fixed
assets, which were originally purchased by The Grand Canal Shops
mall tenants, and which have been recorded at estimated fair
market value, which approximated the discounted present value of
the Company’s obligation to the former tenants. As of
December 31, 2005, the Company was obligated under these
agreements to make future payments of $0.7 million for each
of the next five years and $8.7 million thereafter.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 13 —

Segment Information

The Company reviews the results of operations based on the
following distinct segments, which are The Venetian on the
Strip, The Sands Expo Center in Las Vegas and The Sands Macao in
Macao. The Company’s segments are based on geographic
locations (Las Vegas and Macao) or on the type of business
(casino resort operations or convention operations). The
Company’s segment information is as follows for the three
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 (in
thousands):

(1)

Adjusted EBITDA is net income before interest, income taxes,
    depreciation and amortization, pre-opening expense, development
    expense, other income or expense, gain (loss) on disposal of
    assets, loss on early retirement of debt, and corporate expense.
    Adjusted EBITDA is used by management as the primary measure of
    operating performance of its properties and to compare the
    operating performance of its properties with those of its
    competitors.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Year Ended December 31,




Capital Expenditures

The Venetian

$

137,582

$

117,392

$

203,997

Macao Projects

388,242

197,795

52,788

The Palazzo

333,835

149,466

22,426

The Sands Expo Center


1,095


Total capital expenditures

$

860,621

$

465,748

$

279,948

Year Ended December 31,



Total Assets

Las Vegas Sands Corp.

$

307,679

$

744,927

The Venetian

2,004,427

2,025,905

Macao Projects

885,809

455,374

The Palazzo

605,320

299,761

The Sands Expo Center

76,504

75,511

Total consolidated assets

$

3,879,739

$

3,601,478

Note 14 —

Mall Sale

Mall Sale and Related Matters

On April 12, 2004, the Company entered into an agreement to
sell The Grand Canal Shops mall and lease certain restaurant and
other retail space at the casino level of The Venetian (the
“Master Lease”) to General Growth Properties
(“GGP”) for approximately $766.0 million (the
“Mall Sale”). The Mall Sale closed on May 17,
2004 and the Company realized a gain of $417.6 million in
connection with the Mall Sale. In conjunction with the Mall
Sale, the Company repaid all of its $120.0 million secured
Mall facility and redeemed $6.4 million of the Mortgage
Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer. Under the Master Lease
agreement, The Venetian leased nineteen spaces on the casino
level of The Venetian currently occupied by various tenants to
GGP for

89-years

with
annual rent of one dollar per year and GGP assumed the various
leases. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the
Master Lease agreement does not qualify as a sale of the related
assets, which were not separately legally demised. Accordingly,
$109.2 million of the transaction has been deferred as
prepaid operating lease payments to The Venetian, which will
amortize into income on a straight-line basis over the

89-year

lease term.
During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
$1.2 million and $0.8 million, respectively, of this
deferred item was amortized and is included in retail and other
revenue. In addition the Company agreed with GGP to:
(i) continue to be obligated to fulfill certain lease
termination and asset purchase agreements as further described
in Note 12–Commitments and Contingencies–Other
Ventures and Commitments; (ii) lease the Blue Man Group
Theater space located within The Grand Canal Shops mall from GGP
for a period of 25 years with fixed minimum rent of
$3.3 million per year with cost of living adjustments;
(iii) operate the Gondola ride under an operating agreement
for a period of 25 years for an annual fee of
$3.5 million; and (iv) lease certain office space from
GGP for a period of 10 years, subject to extension options
for a period of up to 65 years, with annual rent of
$860,350. The lease payments under clauses (ii) through
(iv) above are subject to automatic increases beginning on
the sixth lease year. The net present value of the lease
payments under clauses (ii) through (iv) is
$77.2 million. Under generally accepted accounting
principles, a portion of the transaction must be deferred in an
amount equal to the present value of the minimum lease payments
set forth in the lease back



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

agreements. This deferred gain will be amortized to reduce lease
expense on a straight-line basis over the life of the leases.
During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
$3.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively, of this
deferred item was amortized and is included as an offset to
retail and other expense.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company was obligated under
(ii), (iii), and (iv) above to make future payments as
follows (in thousands):


$

7,660


7,660


7,660


7,884


8,043

Thereafter

145,653

$

184,560

Phase II Mall

The Company formed the Phase II Mall Subsidiary on
July 1, 2004 to develop and construct the Phase II
Mall. In connection with the Mall Sale, the Company entered into
an agreement with GGP to construct and sell the Phase II
Mall for an amount equal to the greater of
(i) $250.0 million; or (ii) the Phase II
Mall’s net operating income for months 19 through 30 of its
operations (assuming that the rent due from all tenants in month
30 was actually due in each of months 19 through
30) divided by a capitalization rate. The capitalization
rate is 0.06 for every dollar of net operating income up to
$38.0 million and 0.08 for every dollar of net operating
income above $38.0 million. On the date the Phase II
Mall opens to the public, GGP will be obligated to make an
initial purchase price payment based on projected net operating
income for the first 12 months of operations (but in no
event less than $250.0 million). Every six months
thereafter until the 24 month anniversary of the opening
date, the required purchase price will be adjusted (up or down,
but never to less than $250.0 million) based on projected
net operating income for the upcoming 12 months. The
“final” purchase price adjustment (subject to audit
thereafter) will be made on the

30-month

anniversary of
the Phase II Mall’s opening date based on the formula
described above. For all purchase price and purchase price
adjustment calculations, “net operating income” will
be calculated by using the “accrual” method of
accounting and, for purposes of calculating the final purchase
price adjustment, by applying the base rent payable by all
tenants in the last month of the applicable

12-month

period to the
entire

12-month

period.
The Phase II Mall is expected to cost approximately
$280.0 million (excluding incentive payments described
below). Under the Mall Sale agreement, the Company has agreed to
substantially complete construction of the Phase II Mall
before the earlier of (x) 36 months after the date on which
sufficient permits are received to allow the Phase II Mall
Subsidiary to begin construction of the Phase II Mall and
(y) March 1, 2008. These dates may be extended due to
force majeure or certain other delays. In the event that the
Company does not substantially complete construction of the
Phase II Mall on or before the earlier of these two dates
(as such dates may be extended as described in the preceding
sentences), the Company must pay liquidated damages of
$5,000 per day for the first six months and
$10,000 per day for the following six months if substantial
completion does not occur by the end of six months after the
completion deadline. If substantial completion has not occurred
on or before one year after the deadline, the Company will be
required to pay total liquidated damages in the amount of
$100.0 million. In addition, failure to substantially
complete construction of the Phase II Mall before the
agreed-upon deadline would constitute an event of default under
the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Company’s
disbursement agreement.



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

In the event that the Company complies with all of its
obligations under the aforementioned agreement with GGP
concerning the Phase II Mall, and GGP fails to acquire the
membership interests in the entity owning the Phase II
Mall, the Company will be entitled to:

•

sue GGP for specific performance;

•

liquidated damages in the amount of $100.0 million; or

•

purchase the interest of GGP in The Grand Canal Shops mall for
    the lesser of (i) $766.0 million and (ii) the
    fair market value minus $100.0 million.

The Company made an equity contribution to the Phase II
Mall Subsidiary of $63.2 million on July 15, 2004,
which was used to make certain incentive payments and pay
related payroll taxes to the Principal Stockholder and other
senior executives of the Company for their work in connection
with the Phase II Mall Sale and related financing
transactions. The Company made additional equity contributions
of $25.8 million during 2004 as required under the
Phase II Mall construction loan agreement (See
Note 7 — Phase II Mall Construction Loan)
and further equity contributions of $7.9 million during
2005.

Note 15 —

Income Taxes

As further described in Note 2, prior to the completion of
the Company’s initial public offering in December 2004,
LVSLLC had elected to be taxed as an S corporation.
Following the completion of the Merger and the initial public
offering, the Company became subject to federal income taxes. At
the time of the conversion to a C corporation for income tax
purposes, the Company recognized deferred tax assets and
liabilities as required by SFAS No. 109.

The components of the (benefit) provision for income taxes are
as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended

December 31,



Federal:

Current

$

1,627

$

—

Deferred

2,623


Recognition of net deferred tax assets upon C Corporation
    conversion

—

(13,783

)

Total income tax (benefit) provision

$

4,250

$

(13,736

)

The reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate and
the Company’s effective tax rate for the year ended
December 31, 2005 and from the C corporation conversion
date, December 17, 2004, through December 31, 2004 is
as follows:



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Consolidated income before taxes for U.S. and international
operations is as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended

Period Ended

December 31,

December 31,



Domestic

$

3,271

$


International

284,665

8,608

Total

$

287,936

$

8,688

The primary tax affected components of the Company’s net
deferred tax assets are as follows (in thousands):

Domestic operating loss carryforwards were $8.7 million and
$8.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. If these operating loss carryforwards are
not used, they will begin to expire in 2024. Operating loss
carryforwards of the foreign subsidiaries were
$118.3 million and $29.1 million for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These losses
begin to expire in 2006.

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, there was a
$17.4 million and $6.2 million valuation allowance
provided on the foreign net operating loss carryforwards and
other foreign deferred tax assets because management believes
these assets do not meet the “more likely than not”
criteria for recognition under SFAS No. 109.
Management believes all other deferred tax assets are more
likely than not to be realized because of the future reversal of
existing taxable temporary differences and expected future
taxable income. Accordingly, there are no other valuation
allowances provided at December 31, 2005 and 2004.

Undistributed earnings of a subsidiary are accounted for as a
temporary difference, except that deferred tax liabilities are
not recorded for undistributed earnings of a foreign subsidiary
that are deemed to be indefinitely reinvested in the foreign
jurisdiction. The Company has a plan for reinvestment of
undistributed



LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

earnings of its foreign subsidiaries which demonstrates that
such earnings will be indefinitely reinvested in the applicable
jurisdictions. Should the Company change its plans, it would be
required to record a significant amount of deferred tax
liabilities. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004, the amount of undistributed earnings of foreign
subsidiaries that the Company does not intend to repatriate was
$373.1 million and $87.8 million, respectively. Should
these earnings be distributed in the form of dividends or
otherwise, the distributions would be subject to
U.S. federal income tax at the statutory rate of 35%, less
foreign tax credits applicable to distributions, if any. In
addition, such distributions would be subject to withholding
taxes in the various tax jurisdictions.

As described in Note 2, the Company has an income tax
holiday in Macao through 2008. Had the Company been required to
pay income taxes in Macao, consolidated net income would have
been reduced by $35.3 million and $12.2 million, and
diluted earning per share would have been reduced by $0.10 and
$0.04 per share for the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively.

Note 16 —

Dividends

Immediately prior to the July 29, 2004 acquisition of
Interface by LVSLLC as more fully described in Notes 1
and 8, Interface distributed approximately
$15.2 million to its sole stockholder, who is also the
Principal Stockholder of LVSC. The distribution was comprised of
$12.9 million of cash, $1.9 million of receivables due
from the Principal Stockholder and $0.4 million of certain
fixed and other assets. Additionally, as further described in
Note 2, the Company declared tax distributions to its
stockholders of $129.0 million and $4.2 million during
2004 and 2003, respectively. There were no dividends declared
during 2005.

Note 17 —

Condensed Consolidating Financial Information

In accordance with Rule 3-10 of
Regulation

S-X

of
the Securities and Exchange commission, condensed consolidating
financial information of the Company, the Guarantor Subsidiaries
(as defined below) and the non-guarantor subsidiaries on a
combined basis as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2005, is as follows (in thousands).

LVSC is the obligor of the Senior Notes. LVSLLC, Venetian Casino
Resort, LLC, Mall Intermediate Holding Company, LLC, Venetian
Venture Development, LLC, Venetian Transport, LLC, Venetian
Marketing, Inc., Venetian Operating Company, LLC, Lido
Intermediate Holding Company, LLC and Lido Casino Resort, LLC
(collectively, the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”) have
jointly and severally guaranteed the Senior Notes on a full and
unconditional basis.



CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS

December 31, 2005



CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS

December 31, 2004



CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the year ended December 31, 2005



CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the year ended December 31, 2004



CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the year ended December 31, 2003



CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the year ended December 31, 2005



CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the year ended December 31, 2004



CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the year ended December 31, 2003



Note 18 —

Selected Quarterly Financial Results (Unaudited)

Because earnings (loss) per share amounts are calculated using
the weighted average number of common and dilutive common
equivalent shares outstanding during each quarter, the sum of
the per share amounts for the four quarters may not equal the
total earnings per share amounts for the respective year.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
Financial Statement Schedule

To the Board of Directors of Las Vegas Sands Corp.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements, of
management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting and of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting referred to in our
report dated March 1, 2006 appearing in this Annual Report
on Form

10-K

also
included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in
Item 15 (a)(2) of this
Form

10-K.

In our
opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein when
read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Las Vegas, Nevada

March 1, 2006



Financial Statement Schedule

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
ACCOUNTS

LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

For the Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

Additions

Deductions

Charges

(Accounts

Balance at

to

Charged

Balance

Beginning

Costs and

off)

at End

Description

of Year

Expenses

Recovered

of Year

(In thousands)

Allowance for doubtful accounts and discounts:


$

26,942

8,084

(4,873

)

$

30,153


$

30,153

7,959

(3,630

)

$

34,482


$

34,482

9,358

5,158

$

48,998

Balance at

Balance

Beginning

at End

Description

of Year

Additions

Deductions

of Year

Deferred income tax asset valuation allowance:


$

—

—

—

$

—


$

—

6,175

—

$

6,175


$

6,175

11,211

—

$

17,386



ITEM 9. —

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
    ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A. —

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed in the reports that the
Company files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the
time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and
that such information is accumulated and communicated to our
management, including our principal executive officer and
principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow for timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company’s
Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer have
evaluated the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Rules

13a-15(e)

and

15d-15(e))

of the
Company as of December 31, 2005 and have concluded that
they are effective.

It should be noted that any system of controls, however well
designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not
absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.
In addition, the design of any control system is based in part
upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.
Because of these and other inherent limitations of control
systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed
in achieving its stated goals under all potential future
conditions, regardless of how remote.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter
covered by this Annual Report on
Form

10-K

that
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting

The Company’s management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as defined in
Rules

13a-15(f)

and

15d-15(f)

of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s internal
control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The Company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:

(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
    reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
    transactions and dispositions of the Company’s assets;

(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
    recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles and that the Company’s receipts and expenditures
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of its
    management and directors; and

(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
    timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
    of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect
    on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005. In making this assessment, the
Company’s management used the criteria



set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission in “Internal Control-Integrated
Framework.”

Based on this assessment, management concluded that, as of
December 31, 2005, the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.

Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report that appears
beginning on page 77 herein, which expresses unqualified
opinions on management’s assessment and on the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005.

ITEM 9B. —

OTHER INFORMATION

None.

PART III

ITEM 10. —

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

This section contains information about our current executive
officers and directors, including their names and ages,
positions held and periods during which they have held their
positions as of February 28, 2006. There are no
arrangements or understandings between our officers and/or
directors and any other person pursuant to which they were
selected as officers or directors.

Sheldon G. Adelson

has been Chairman of the Board, Chief
Executive Officer, Treasurer and a director of the Company since
August 2004. He has been Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and a director of the Company’s wholly owned
operating subsidiary, Las Vegas Sands, LLC (formerly known as
Las Vegas Sands, Inc.) since April 1988 when it was formed to
own and operate the former Sands Hotel and Casino.
Mr. Adelson has extensive experience in the convention,
trade show, and tour and travel businesses. Mr. Adelson
also has investments in other business enterprises.
Mr. Adelson created and developed the COMDEX Trade Shows,
including the COMDEX/ Fall Trade Show, which was the
world’s largest computer show in the 1990s, all of which
were sold to Softbank Corporation in April 1995.
Mr. Adelson also created and developed The Sands Expo
Center, which he grew into one of the largest convention and
trade show destinations in the United States before transferring
it to us in July 2004. He has been President and Chairman of
Interface Holding since the mid-1970s and Chairman of our
affiliate Interface Group-Massachusetts Inc. since 1990.



William P. Weidner

has been the President and Chief
Operating Officer and a director of the Company since August
2004. He has been the President and Chief Operating Officer of
Las Vegas Sands, LLC since December 1995 and a director of Las
Vegas Sands, LLC since August 2004. From 1985 to 1995,
Mr. Weidner was President and Chief Operating Officer and
served on the board of Pratt Hotel Corporation. From February
1991 to December 1995, Mr. Weidner was also the President
of Pratt’s Hollywood Casino-Aurora subsidiary and from June
1992 until December 1995, he served on the board of the
Hollywood Casino Corporation. Since September 1993,
Mr. Weidner has served on the board of directors of
Shorewood Packaging Corporation. Mr. Weidner directed the
opening of Hollywood Casino, one of Chicago’s first
riverboat casino hotels, New York City’s Maxim’s de
Paris (now the Peninsula), and hotels in Orlando and Palm
Springs.

Bradley H. Stone

has been Executive Vice President of the
Company since August 2004. He has been Executive Vice President
of Las Vegas Sands, LLC since December 1995. From June 1984
through December 1995, Mr. Stone was President and Chief
Operating Officer of the Sands Hotel in Atlantic City.
Mr. Stone also served as an Executive Vice President of the
parent Pratt Hotel Corporation from June 1986 through December
1995.

Robert G. Goldstein

has been Senior Vice President of the
Company since August 2004. He has been Senior Vice President of
Las Vegas Sands, LLC since December 1995. From 1992 until
joining the Company in December 1995, Mr. Goldstein was the
Executive Vice President of Marketing at the Sands in Atlantic
City as well as an Executive Vice President of the parent Pratt
Hotel Corporation.

Scott D. Henry

has been Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Company since September 2004. From May
2001 until September 2004, Mr. Henry was a Managing
Director in the Telecommunications, Media and Technology Group
at ABN AMRO Incorporated. From January 2000 to May 2001, he was
a Managing Director in the Telecommunications Group at ING
Barings in New York. Prior to joining ING Barings,
Mr. Henry was a Managing Director in the Media,
Entertainment and Communications Group at Prudential Securities
and the head of Prudential’s Gaming and Leisure practice.
Mr. Henry joined Prudential in March 1997.

Bradley K. Serwin

has been the General Counsel and
Secretary of the Company since January 2005. From June 1999
until January 2005, Mr. Serwin served as Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of
Ticketmaster, a ticketing and access company, and its
predecessors. Prior to joining Ticketmaster, Mr. Serwin
served from March 1995 until May 1999 as Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Paula Financial, a
publicly-traded insurance and financial services company. From
1986 until March 1995, Mr. Serwin practiced law with Gibson
Dunn & Crutcher.

Wesley D. Allison

has been Acting Chief Accounting
Officer of the Company since December 2005. Prior to that,
Mr. Allison served as the Vice President, Finance at the
Company’s subsidiary, Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, since
August 2005. From May 2004 until he joined our company,
Mr. Allison was the Senior Vice President, Interim Chief
Financial Officer and Corporate Controller at Caesars
Entertainment, Inc. From July 2002 until May 2004, he was the
Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller and from December
1998 until July 2002, he was the Vice President and Corporate
Controller at Caesars Entertainment, Inc.

Irwin Chafetz

has been a director of the Company since
March 2005. He was a director of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. from
March until July 2005. Mr. Chafetz is a director of The
Interface Group, a Massachusetts business trust which controls
Interface Group-Massachusetts, LLC, a company that owns and
operates GWV Vacations, New England’s largest charter tour
operator, and Sunburst Vacations LLC, a national scheduled
service tour operator. Mr. Chafetz has been associated with
GWV Vacations and its predecessors since 1972. From 1989 to
1995, Mr. Chafetz was a vice president and director of
Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., which owned and operated trade
shows, including COMDEX, which at its peak was the largest
American trade show with a presence in more than 20 countries,
and also owned and operated The Sands Expo Center, the largest
privately-owned convention center in the United States. From
1989 to 1995 Mr. Chafetz was also Vice President and a
director of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. Mr. Chafetz has served on
the boards of directors of



many charitable and civic organizations and is a member of the
Dean’s Advisory Council at Boston University School of
Management and the Board of Trustees at Suffolk University.

Charles D. Forman

has been a director of the Company
since August 2004. He has been a director of Las Vegas Sands,
LLC since March 2004. Mr. Forman has served as Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of Centric Events Group, LLC, a trade
show and conference business since 2002. From 2000 to 2002, he
served as a director of a private company and participated in
various private equity investments. From 1995 to 2000, he held
various positions with subsidiaries of Softbank Corporation.
During 2000, he was Executive Vice President of
International Operations of Key3Media, Inc. From 1998 to 2000,
he was Chief Legal Officer of ZD Events Inc., a tradeshow
business that included COMDEX, which was the largest tradeshow
in the United States in the 1990s. From 1995 to 1998,
Mr. Forman was Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
and Legal Officer of Softbank Comdex Inc. From 1989 to 1995,
Mr. Forman was Vice President and General Counsel of
Interface Group, Inc., a tradeshow and convention business that
owned and operated COMDEX. Mr. Forman was in private law
practice from 1972 to 1988.

Michael A. Leven

has been a director of the Company since
August 2004. He was a director of Las Vegas Sands, LLC from May
2004 until July 2005. Mr. Leven has spent his entire

45-year

career in the
hotel industry. Mr. Leven is the founder, Chairman, Chief
Executive Officer and President of U.S. Franchise Systems,
Inc., which franchises the Microtel Inns & Suites and
Hawthorn Suites brands. Mr. Leven formed
U.S. Franchise Systems, Inc. in 1995. From 1990 to 1995,
Mr. Leven was President and Chief Operating Officer of
Holiday Inns Worldwide. From 1985 to 1990, he was president of
Days Inn of America. Mr. Leven serves as director of Hersha
Hospitality Trust. Mr. Leven serves on many other
non-profit boards.

James L. Purcell

has been a director of the Company since
July 2004. He was a director of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. from June
2004 until July 2005. Mr. Purcell was a partner at the law
firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP
from January 1964 through December 1999. Mr. Purcell has
practiced law in Boca Raton, Florida, since his retirement from
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP.
Mr. Purcell is a Director Emeritus of King’s College.

Irwin A. Siegel

has been a director of the Company since
February 2005. He was a director of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. from
February 2005 until July 2005. Mr. Siegel is a certified
public accountant and was a partner (specializing in the
hospitality industry) in the international accounting and
consulting firm of Deloitte & Touche, LLP from 1973 to
2003, when he retired. From 1996 through 1999 Mr. Siegel
served as the CEO of the Deloitte operations in the former
Soviet Union. Mr. Siegel has been working as a business
consultant since 2003. Mr. Siegel has served on the boards
of directors of many charitable and civic organizations and is
the president of the Weinstein Hospice in Atlanta.

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance

Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
requires the Company’s executive officers and directors to
file reports of ownership of our common stock with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Executive officers and
directors are required to furnish the Company with copies of all
Section 16(a) forms that they file. Based upon a review of
these filings and representations from the Company’s
directors and executive officers that no other reports were
required, the Company notes that all reports for the year 2005
were filed on a timely basis, except that due to administrative
errors, Form 4s for each of Messrs. Chafetz, Forman,
Leven, Purcell and Siegel reporting their annual award of
1,348 shares of the Company’s restricted stock were
filed late and Form 4s for each of Messrs. Serwin and
Siegel reporting their annual award of options to
purchase 12,750 and 5,100 shares of the Company’s
Common Stock, respectively, were filed late.

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation.

The members of the Compensation Committee in
2005 were Messrs. Forman, Chafetz, Leven and Purcell.
Mr. Forman was, from 1989 to 1995, an officer of Interface
Group Massachusetts, Inc. and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc.,
companies controlled by Mr. Adelson (our “principal
stockholder”). Mr. Chafetz is a director of The
Interface Group, a Massachusetts business trust which controls
Interface Group Massachusetts, LLC, a company that owns and



operates GWV Vacations and Sunburst Vacations LLC. From 1989 to
1995, Mr. Chafetz was a vice president and director of
Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. and a director and vice-president
of our subsidiary, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. Except as described
above, none of the other members of our Compensation Committee
are, or have been, an employee or officer of the Company. None
of our executive officers serves, or in the past year has
served, as a member of the Board or Compensation Committee of
any entity that has one or more executive officers who serve on
our Board or Compensation Committee.

Directors’ Compensation

Each non employee director receives an annual cash retainer of
$50,000 and an annual grant of restricted stock equal in value
to $50,000. The restricted stock is subject to a one year
forfeiture period and may not be sold until the director retires
from the Board (except to the extent necessary to cover taxes
incurred as a result of the vesting of the restricted stock). In
addition, each non employee director receives a one time grant
of options upon becoming a non-employee director with an
aggregate value of $100,000 on the date of grant (based on the
Black Scholes Option valuation model). These options vest at a
rate of 20% of the option grant each year over five years. Both
the restricted stock grants and the options are granted to the
directors pursuant to our 2004 Plan. In 2005,
Messrs. Chafetz, Forman, Leven, Purcell and Siegel each
received 1,348 restricted shares of stock and
Messrs. Chafetz and Siegel received options to
purchase 4,970 and 5,100 shares of Common Stock,
respectively, as their one-time option grants upon becoming
non-employee directors.

We pay non employee directors $1,500 for each meeting of the
Board that they attend ($750 for telephonic meetings) and $1,000
for each meeting of a committee of the Board that they attend
($500 for telephonic meetings). Annual retainers are paid to the
chairperson of each committee of the Board as follows: Audit
Committee chairperson, increased from $10,000 to $20,000,
effective January 1, 2006; and Compensation Committee
chairperson, $5,000. The above cash compensation may be deferred
by directors into a deferred compensation plan that we have
established. Directors are also reimbursed for expenses incurred
in connection with their service as directors, including travel
expenses for meeting attendance. As a retired partner of Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP,
Mr. Purcell is obligated to turn over to his former law
firm all consideration he receives as a director of our company.

Corporate Governance

Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.

We have adopted a
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all of the
Company’s directors, officers (including the principal
executive officer, principal financial officer and principal
accounting officer), employees and agents. The Code of Business
Conduct and Ethics establishes policies and procedures that the
Board believes promote the highest standards of integrity,
compliance with the law and personal accountability. The
Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on
our website and is provided to all new directors, officers and
employees. See “— Website Access” below.

Corporate Governance Guidelines.

We have adopted
Corporate Governance Guidelines for the Company setting forth
the general principles governing the conduct of the
Company’s business and the role, functions, duties and
responsibilities of the Board, including, but not limited to
such matters as composition, membership criteria, orientation
and continuing education, retirement, committees, compensation,
meeting procedures, annual evaluation and management succession
planning. The Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines are
posted on our website. See “— Website
Access” below.

Statement on Reporting Ethical Violations.

We have
adopted a Statement on Reporting Ethical Violations to
facilitate and encourage the reporting of any misconduct at the
Company, including violations or potential violations of our
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and ensure that those
reporting such misconduct will not be subject to harassment,
intimidation or other retaliatory action. The Statement on
Reporting Ethical Violations is posted on our website and is
provided to all new directors, officers and employees. See
“— Website Access” below.



Director Independence and Audit Committee

As a “controlled” company pursuant to the rules of the
NYSE, we are not required to have a majority of independent
directors on our Board. The Board has determined that three of
the seven members of the Board currently satisfy the criteria
for independence under applicable Exchange Act and NYSE rules,
namely Messrs. Leven, Purcell and Siegel. In making its
determination, the Board reviewed all the relevant facts and
circumstances (including Mr. Purcell’s status as a
retired partner of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP), the standards set forth in our Corporate
Governance Guidelines, the NYSE rules and other applicable laws
and regulations.

The members of our Audit Committee are Irwin A. Siegel
(Chairman), Michael A. Leven and James L. Purcell. The Board has
determined that each of Messrs. Siegel, Leven and Purcell
is independent under applicable NYSE and federal securities
rules and regulations on independence of Audit Committee
members. The Board has determined that each of the members of
the Audit Committee is “financially literate.”

Two of our directors, Messrs. Chafetz and Forman, have
business and personal relationships with our controlling
stockholder, Mr. Adelson. Mr. Chafetz was a
stockholder, vice president and director of the entity that
owned and operated the COMDEX trade show and The Sands Expo
Center which were created and developed by Mr. Adelson.
Mr. Forman was vice president and general counsel of this
entity. Mr. Chafetz is also a director and a 12.5%
shareholder of entities that control GWV Vacations and Sunburst
Vacations and that are controlled by Mr. Adelson.
Mr. Forman is also a trustee of several trusts for the
benefit of Mr. Adelson and his family that beneficially own
approximately 21.3% of our common stock and a trustee of a trust
for the benefit of Mr. Chafetz’s children. These
relationships with Mr. Adelson also include making joint
investments and other significant financial dealings. As a
result, Messrs. Adelson, Chafetz and Forman may have their
financial interests aligned and therefore, the Board does not
consider Messrs. Chafetz and Forman to be independent
directors.

Audit Committee Financial Expert

The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Siegel
qualifies as an “audit committee financial expert” as
defined in the NYSE’s listing standards and the SEC
regulations and that he is independent as that term is used in
Item 7(d)(3)(iv) of Schedule 14A under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.

Website Access

Copies of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate
Government Guidelines, Statement on Reporting Ethical Violations
and the charters for our Audit Committee and Compensation
Committee are available on our website at

www.lasvegassands.com

by clicking on “Investor
Information,” then “Corporate Governance.” Copies
also are available without charge by sending a written request
to the Corporate Secretary at the following address: Las Vegas
Sands Corp., 3355 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada
89109.

NYSE and SEC Certifications

In January 2006, our Chief Executive Officer provided to the
NYSE the annual CEO certification regarding the Company’s
compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing
standards. As permitted by the listing rules of the NYSE, this
certification was provided within 30 days of the first
anniversary of our listing on the NYSE. Furthermore, the
Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer each filed with the SEC, as an exhibit to this Annual
Report on
Form

10-K,

the
certifications required under Section 302 and
Section 906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.



ITEM 11. —

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The following table sets forth information concerning the
compensation earned by or paid to Sheldon G. Adelson (our
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Treasurer), and each of
our four other most highly compensated executive officers (with
Mr. Adelson, the “named executive officers”)
during each of the past three fiscal years.

Summary Compensation Table

(1)

Bonus amounts reflect bonuses earned for performance during the
    indicated year, regardless of when paid. Since our initial
    public offering, all bonuses have been approved by the
    Compensation Committee or its Performance Subcommittee, as
    applicable. The bonuses reported above in respect of 2005 were
    paid in February 2006. Due to an improper interpretation of
    their employment agreements, the bonus payments made to the
    named executives exceeded the bonuses earned by them under their
    respective employment agreements by the amounts set forth after
    their names as follows: Mr. Adelson ($876,697);
    Mr. Weidner ($712,316); Mr. Stone ($536,977);
    Mr. Goldstein ($458,257); and Mr. Henry ($219,174). On
    March 1, 2006, the Compensation Committee met to consider
    what action should be taken with respect to the overpayments. A
    majority of the Committee concluded that the outstanding
    performance of the Company in 2005 justified payment to the
    executives of supplemental bonuses equal to the overpayments
    made to each of them in February. James L. Purcell, a member of
    the Compensation Committee and of its Performance Subcommittee,
    dissented. In July 2004, we made one-time cash incentive
    payments to Messrs. Adelson, Weidner, Stone and Goldstein
    in the amounts of $30.0 million, $11.2 million,
    $10.2 million and $10.6 million, respectively. These
    incentive payments were paid to these executives for the
    significant value they created in connection with securing the
    financing of the Phase II mall and arranging for the sale
    of the Phase II mall.

(2)

On January 11, 2006, we awarded shares of restricted stock
    under our 2004 Equity Award Plan to Messrs. Weidner, Stone,
    Goldstein and Henry in connection with their employment with our
    company during 2005. The amounts shown in the table represent
    the market value of the shares of restricted stock, based on the
    closing price of $47.32 per share of our common stock on the
    NYSE on the grant date. None of these individuals held any
    shares of restricted stock as of December 31, 2005. Based
    on the



closing price of $39.47 per share of our common stock on the
    NYSE on December 30, 2005, Mr. Weidner held 23,479
    shares of restricted stock having an aggregate value of
    $926,716; Mr. Stone held 20,544 shares of restricted stock
    having an aggregate value of $810,872; Mr. Goldstein held
    17,609 shares of restricted stock having an aggregate value of
    $695,027; and Mr. Henry held 5,869 shares of restricted
    stock having an aggregate value of $231,649. Holders of shares
    of restricted stock are credited with any dividends that would
    be payable on the shares of common stock. Each of the awards of
    restricted stock vests in three equal installments, beginning on
    January 1, 2007. The unvested portion of each restricted
    stock award is subject to forfeiture upon termination of the
    holder’s employment.

(3)

Amounts reported include options granted in such years under our
    1997 Plan and our 2004 Plan. No options were granted to the
    named executive officers during 2005.

(4)

Amounts included in “All Other Compensation” are
    detailed in the following table.

All Other Compensation



medical plan and the aggregate program cost to us during each of
    2003, 2004 and 2005 was $80,512, $54,194 and $48,234,
    respectively.

(vi)

Mr. Adelson reimburses the Company for the portion of the
    Company’s cost to provide security and automobiles to
    Mr. Adelson and his immediate family which the Company has
    determined to be the personal value to him as opposed to a
    business expense for the Company. Accordingly, Mr. Adelson
    did not receive personal compensation for security or
    automobiles and no personal compensation is shown in the table.

(5)

Mr. Henry joined the Company in September 2004.

Stock Option Grants in 2005

No stock options were granted to any of our named executive
officers during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005.

On January 11, 2006, we awarded options to purchase shares
of our common stock under our 2004 Plan to the following
individuals in connection with their employment with our company
during 2006: Mr. Weidner, 71,006 shares; Mr. Stone,
62,130 shares; Mr. Goldstein, 53,254 shares; and
Mr. Henry, 17,751 shares. The exercise price per share for
each of the options is $42.59. Each of the options vests in four
equal installments, beginning on January 1, 2007.

Aggregated Option Exercises in 2005 and Option Values on
December 31, 2005

The following tables show stock options to purchase our common
stock that our named executive officers exercised during 2005
and the number of shares and the value of grants outstanding as
of December 31, 2005 for each named executive officer.

Number of Securities

Underlying Unexercised

Value of Unexercised In-the-

Options/SARs at

Money Options/SARs at

FY-End (#)

FY-End ($)

(a)

Shares Acquired

Named Executive Officer

on Exercise

Value Realized ($)

Exercisable

Unexercisable

Exercisable

Unexercisable

Sheldon G. Adelson

—

—

22,950

68,850

$

240,287

$

720,860

William P. Weidner

—

—

20,873

62,620

218,540

655,631

Bradley H. Stone

—

—

18,264

54,793

191,224

573,683

Robert G. Goldstein

—

—

15,655

46,965

163,908

491,724

Scott D. Henry

—

—

5,218

15,655

54,632

163,908

(a)

Based on the per share price of our common stock at
    December 30, 2005 of $39.47.

Employment Agreements

Messrs. Adelson, Weidner, Stone and Goldstein each has
entered into an employment agreement with Las Vegas Sands,
Inc. (currently known as Las Vegas Sands, LLC) and Las Vegas
Sands Corp. for a five-year term, commencing as of
December 20, 2004, with automatic one-year extension
rights. Mr. Henry has entered into an employment agreement
with Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (currently known as Las Vegas Sands,
LLC) and Las Vegas Sands Corp. for a three-year term, effective
as of September 13, 2004, with automatic one year extension
rights.

Pursuant to these employment agreements, these executive
officers have such powers, duties and responsibilities as are
generally associated with their offices, as may be modified or
assigned by in the case of Mr. Adelson, the board of
directors, and in the case of the other executives, our chief
executive officer and the board of directors and subject to the
supervision of our chief executive officer and the board of
directors. Mr. Adelson also serves as the Chairman of the
board of directors of both Las Vegas Sands Corp. and
Las Vegas Sands, LLC during the term of his employment
agreement except under specific circumstances.



Under the employment agreements, Messrs. Adelson, Weidner,
Stone, Goldstein and Henry receive annual base salaries of
$1,000,000, $1,000,000, $1,000,000, $965,000 and $500,000,
respectively. These executive officers also receive:

•

annual bonuses based on the attainment of certain performance
    targets pursuant to the Executive Cash Incentive Plan (as
    described below); and

•

annual grants of options and, subject to the attainment of
    certain performance targets, restricted stock awards, pursuant,
    in each case, to our 2004 Plan (as described below).

Mr. Adelson is entitled to be reimbursed up to $100,000,
and Mr. Weidner is entitled to be reimbursed up to $50,000,
per fiscal year for personal legal and financial planning fees
and expenses upon the submission of substantiating
documentation. Mr. Adelson is entitled during the term of
his employment, at our sole cost and expense, to the full-time
and exclusive use of an automobile and a driver of his choice,
security services for himself, his spouse and children. In
addition, we have obtained access to a Boeing Business Jet
pursuant to a timesharing agreement with an entity controlled by
Mr. Adelson. Subject to the availability of this aircraft
to us under the timesharing agreement, we make this aircraft
available to Mr. Adelson for business travel. When this
aircraft is not available, we make available a Gulfstream
large-cabin aircraft for Mr. Adelson’s business
travel. The executive officers are also entitled to receive
other employee benefits generally made available to our
employees.

In the event of a termination of the employment of one of these
executive officers for cause (as defined in the applicable
employment agreement) or a voluntary termination by the
executive officer (other than for good reason), all salary and
benefits for the executive officer will immediately cease
(subject to any requirements of law).

In the event of a termination of the employment of one of these
executive officers by us without cause or a voluntary
termination by the executive officer for good reason (as defined
in the applicable employment agreement) other than during the
two year period following a change in control (as defined in the
2004 Plan), we will be obligated to pay or provide the executive
officer with:

In the event of a termination of the employment of one of these
executive officers by us without cause or a termination by the
executive officer for good reason within the two-year period
following a change in control or in the case of
Mr. Adelson, or voluntary termination without good reason
at any time during the one-year period following a change in
control, we will be obligated to pay or provide the executive
officer with:



In the case of a termination of the employment of one of these
executive officers due to his death or disability (as defined in
the applicable employment agreement), the executive officer will
be entitled to receive:

•

continued payments of salary and base bonus, less any applicable
    disability short term insurance payments, for a period of twelve
    months following the date of termination;

•

accelerated vesting of options and restricted stock awards such
    that all such options and awards that would have vested during
    the twelve month period following the date of termination will
    become vested as of the date of termination; and

•

a pro rata annual supplemental bonus payable at the time the
    bonus would normally be paid.

If one of these executive officers terminates employment on or
after the last day of a fiscal year but before the actual grant
date of the restricted stock award for that fiscal year, he will
be granted a fully vested award for that fiscal year on the date
the award would have otherwise been made (and subject to the
applicable performance target being achieved) equal to the
number of shares he would have been awarded multiplied by the
following applicable percentage:

•

0% if the termination was for cause or a voluntary termination
    (other than for good reason or retirement);

•



/


%
    if the termination was due to death or disability; and

•

100% if the termination is by us without cause or by the
    executive for good reason or due to retirement.

The employment agreements may not be amended, changed or
modified except by a written document signed by each of the
parties.

Plans

Las Vegas Sands, Inc. 1997 Fixed Stock Option Plan

We assumed the 1997 Plan on December 20, 2004. The 1997
Plan provides for 19,952,456 shares of our common stock to
be reserved for issuance to officers and other key employees or
consultants of our Company or any of our “affiliates”
or “subsidiaries” (each as defined in the 1997 Plan)
pursuant to options granted under the 1997 Plan. The 1997 Plan
was terminated with respect to future grants effective on
December 20, 2004, and no options remain outstanding under
the 1997 Plan as of December 31, 2005.

Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan

We adopted the 2004 Plan, which became effective on
December 15, 2004. Our Compensation Committee administers
our 2004 Plan. Our Compensation Committee has full discretion to
administer and interpret the 2004 Plan, to adopt such rules,
regulations and procedures as it deems necessary or advisable
and to determine among other things the time or times at which
the awards may be exercised and whether and under what
circumstances an award may be exercised.

The 2004 Plan provides for an aggregate of
26,344,000 shares of our common stock to be available for
awards to any of our, our subsidiaries’ or our
affiliates’ employees, directors, officers or consultants.
The Compensation Committee may grant awards of nonqualified
stock options, incentive (qualified) stock options, stock
appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock
units, stock bonus awards, performance compensation awards or
any combination of the foregoing. Each award granted by our
Compensation Committee is subject to the terms and conditions
established by the Compensation Committee.

No participant may be granted awards of options and stock
appreciation rights with respect to more than
3,000,000 shares of common stock in any one year. No more
than 3,000,000 shares of common stock may be granted under
our 2004 Plan with respect to performance compensation awards in
any one year. Under our 2004 Plan, our non-employee directors
receive automatic awards of options and restricted stock.



2005 Awards under the 2004 Plan.

During 2005, options to
purchase an aggregate of 304,820 shares of our common stock
under our 2004 Plan were granted to two of our directors and
several newly hired key employees of the Company and its
subsidiaries with a weighted average exercise price per share
equal to $35.50. Also during 2005, a total of 8,088 shares
of restricted stock were granted under our 2004 Plan to five of
our directors and one key employee of one of our subsidiaries.

Executive Cash Incentive Plan

The purpose of the Las Vegas Sands Corp. Executive Cash
Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) is to establish
a program of annual incentive compensation awards for designated
officers and other key executives of Las Vegas Sands Corp.
and its subsidiaries and divisions that is directly related to
our performance results and to ensure that bonus payments made
to the named executive officers will be tax deductible to us
under either the “performance-based compensation”
exception to Section 162(m) of the Code or transitional
rules applicable following an initial public offering.

The Incentive Plan is administered by the Las Vegas Sands Corp.
Compensation Committee, which has all the authority that may be
necessary or helpful to enable it to discharge its
responsibilities with respect to the Incentive Plan. Except as
otherwise specifically limited in the Incentive Plan, the Las
Vegas Sands Corp. Compensation Committee has full power and
authority to construe, interpret and administer the incentive
plan.

The Las Vegas Sands Corp. Compensation Committee establishes a
maximum award and goals relating to our and/or its
subsidiaries’, divisions’, departments’, and/or
functional performance for each participant, or
“performance goals” in respect of each performance
period. Participants earn awards only upon the attainment of the
applicable performance goals during the applicable performance
period, as and to the extent established by the Las Vegas Sands,
Corp Compensation Committee. The maximum amount payable to a
participant in respect of an annual bonus award that is intended
to qualify for the “performance-based compensation”
exception to Section 162(m) of the Code is
$10.0 million.

Deferred Compensation Plan

The Las Vegas Sands Corp. Deferred Compensation Plan, which was
effective as of January 1, 2005, provides benefits to
non-employee directors and a select group of management or
highly paid employees to be selected by the Las Vegas Sands
Corp. Compensation Committee. All non-employee directors are
eligible to participate in the Deferred Compensation Plan.

The Deferred Compensation Plan allows participating employees to
defer payment of their base salary and/or bonus and non-employee
directors to defer payment of director fees. With respect to
each calendar year, a participating employee may elect to defer
up to 75% of his base salary and 100% of his bonus, subject to a
minimum deferral of $5,000 in the aggregate. Non-employee
directors may defer 100% of their annual director fees (with no
required minimum deferral). In addition, we may make
contributions to the Deferred Compensation Plan on behalf of a
participant that may be subject to vesting requirements
described in the Deferred Compensation Plan. All amounts
credited to a participant’s accounts under the Deferred
Compensa-



tion Plan are deemed to be invested in one or more measurement
funds selected by the participant, which funds reflect rates of
return under mutual funds selected by the compensation committee.

There are currently no participants in the Deferred Compensation
Plan.

ITEM 12. —

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
    MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Beneficial Ownership of Our Common Stock

The following table sets forth information, as of
February 24, 2006, as to the beneficial ownership of our
common stock, in each case, by:

*

Less than 1%.

(1)

A person is deemed to be a “beneficial owner” of a
    security if that person has or shares voting power, which
    includes the power to vote or direct the voting of such
    security, or investment power, which includes the power to
    dispose of or to direct the disposition of such security. A
    person is also deemed to be a beneficial owner of any securities
    of which that person has a right to acquire beneficial ownership
    within 60 days. Securities that can be so acquired are
    deemed to be outstanding for purposes of computing such
    person’s ownership percentage, but not for purposes of
    computing any other person’s percentage. Under these rules,
    more than one person may be deemed a beneficial owner of the
    same securities and a person may be deemed to be a beneficial
    owner of such securities as to which such person has no economic
    interest. Except as otherwise indicated in these footnotes, each
    of the beneficial owners has, to our knowledge, the sole voting
    and investment power with respect to the indicated shares of
    common stock.



(7)

Mr. Adelson and Mr. Forman may each be deemed to
    beneficially own 7,306,851  shares of our common stock held
    by the Sheldon G. Adelson 2004 Two Year LVSI Annuity Trust as a
    trustee of the trust. Mr. Adelson has sole dispositive
    control over the shares in the trust. Mr. Forman has sole
    voting control over the shares in the trust. Mr. Forman
    disclaims such beneficial ownership and this disclosure shall
    not be deemed an admission that Mr. Forman is a beneficial
    owner of such shares for any purpose.

(8)

This amount includes 23,479 shares of restricted stock and
    options to purchase 20,873 shares of our common stock that
    are vested and exercisable. This amount also includes
    5,252,834 shares of our common stock that Mr. Weidner
    transferred to Weidner Holdings, LLC, a sole member limited
    liability company of which Mr. Weidner is the sole member
    manager.

(9)

This amount includes 20,544 shares of restricted stock and
    options to purchase 18,264 shares of our common stock that
    are vested and exercisable. This amount excludes
    1,667,087 shares that Mr. Stone transferred to The
    Stone Crest Trust and over which he has no voting or dispositive
    control.



Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
Plans

The following table shows certain information with respect to
our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2005.

Number of

Securities

Number of

Remaining Available

Securities to be

for Future Issuance

Issued Upon

Weighted-Average

Under Equity

Exercise of

Exercise Price of

Compensation Plans

Outstanding

Outstanding

(Excluding

Options, Warrants

Options, Warrants

Securities Reflected

Plan Category

and Rights

and Rights ($)

in Column (a))

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plans approved by security
    holders

(1)

2,097,960

(2)

29.83

24,227,152

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

—

—

—

Total

2,097,960

29.83

24,227,152

(3)

(1)

Our 1997 Plan and our 2004 Plan have each been approved by our
    stockholders prior to our initial public offering.

(2)

This includes 2,097,960 options granted pursuant to our 2004
    Plan and 0 options outstanding under our 1997 Plan and takes
    into account the forfeiture of options to
    purchase 381,843 shares in connection with employee
    separations.

(3)

This includes only securities available for issuance pursuant to
    our 2004 Plan. As of December 20, 2004, no additional
    securities are available for grant under our 1997 Plan.

ITEM 13. —

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS

Reorganization Transactions

Immediately prior to the closing of our initial public offering
which occurred on December 20, 2004, we acquired 100% of
the capital stock of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. This was effected by
merging Las Vegas Sands, Inc. with and into our wholly owned
subsidiary, with Las Vegas Sands, Inc. surviving as our
operating subsidiary. We refer to this as the “parent
company merger.” In connection with the parent company
merger, holders of Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s common stock
received 266.0327553 shares of our common stock for each
share of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. common stock that they owned, and
we received all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Las
Vegas Sands, Inc. Each option to purchase one share of common
stock of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was converted into an option to
purchase 266.0327553 shares of our common stock.

On July 29, 2004, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. acquired all of the
capital stock of Interface Holding from Mr. Adelson in
exchange for 220,370 shares of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. common
stock (58,625,638 shares of our common stock after giving
effect to the parent company merger). At that time Interface
Holding indirectly owned The Sands Expo Center and held a
redeemable preferred interest in Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
wholly-owned subsidiary Venetian Casino Resort, LLC. The
acquisition of Interface Holding by Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was
consummated in anticipation of entering into financing
arrangements for The Palazzo. The acquisition of Interface
Holding was approved by a committee of independent directors of
Las Vegas Sands, Inc. The acquisition consideration was the
result of negotiations among Mr. Adelson, senior management
and an independent director of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. The factors
used to determine the value of the capital stock of Interface
Holding included:

•

an independent appraisal that concluded that the value of The
    Sands Expo Center was $170.0 million;

•

the unique value The Sands Expo Center represents to The
    Venetian because of the significant mid-week business generated,
    which was determined subjectively to be $30.0 million;



•

the aggregate liquidation preference of the preferred interest
    in Venetian Casino Resort, LLC at the time of acquisition, which
    was determined to be $255.2 million based on the unpaid
    principal amount at that time of $121.7 million and accrued
    and unpaid preferred return of $133.5 million; and

•

the outstanding indebtedness of Interface Holding and its
    subsidiaries at the time of acquisition, which was
    $124.3 million.

Based upon those factors, the value of the Interface Holding
capital stock received by Las Vegas Sands, Inc. at the time
of the acquisition was determined to be approximately
$331.0 million.

The factors used to determine the $1,500 per share price of
Las Vegas Sands, Inc. common stock ($5.64 per share of our
common stock after giving effect to the parent company merger)
issued to Mr. Adelson in the Interface Holding acquisition
included:

In the Interface Holding acquisition, Mr. Adelson received
220,370 shares of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. common stock. After
giving effect to the parent company merger, those shares were
converted into 58,625,638 of our shares of common stock.

Immediately prior to the consummation of the acquisition of
Interface Holding by Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Interface Holding
made an approximately $15.2 million distribution of cash
and assets unrelated to The Sands Expo Center to
Mr. Adelson. The value of these assets was excluded in
determining the value of the consideration Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
paid to Mr. Adelson for the acquisition of Interface
Holding by Las Vegas Sands, Inc.

Following this acquisition, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. made an equity
contribution of approximately $27.0 million to Interface
Group-Nevada, the direct owner of The Sands Expo Center and then
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Interface Holding. On July 30,
2004, Interface Group-Nevada entered into a $100.0 million
mortgage loan. The approximately $27.0 million equity
contribution enabled Interface Group-Nevada to obtain more
favorable terms for the $100.0 million mortgage loan by
increasing Interface Group-Nevada’s equity. Las Vegas
Sands, Inc. used the proceeds from that loan and a portion of
the equity contribution to repay in full $124.3 million of
outstanding notes payable under its prior mortgage loan from an
unaffiliated entity, and to pay related fees and expenses.

Las Vegas Sands, Inc. converted from a subchapter
S corporation to a taxable “C” corporation for
income tax purposes and declared a tax distribution to all of
its stockholders, which included Mr. Adelson, certain of
the other named executive officers and Mr. Forman prior to
the proposed conversion. A tax distribution of
$21.1 million was paid on January 10, 2005. This
amount was based on the estimated taxable income of Las Vegas
Sands, Inc. for fiscal 2004 and the highest aggregate effective
marginal rate of federal, state and local income tax (or, if
applicable, alternative minimum tax) to which any stockholder of
Las Vegas Sands, Inc. immediately prior to the conversion would
be subject, as provided under Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s debt
instruments. In connection with the conversion, we entered into
the Tax Indemnification Agreement described below.



The table below sets forth the number of our shares of common
stock beneficially owned by certain of our affiliates following
the parent company merger and the tax distribution amounts
received by these affiliates (including payments on behalf of
trusts established by such persons) in connection with the
conversion of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. from a subchapter
S corporation to a taxable “C” corporation.

Common Shares

of Las Vegas

Tax

Sands Corp.

Distribution

Name

Issued

Amount

Sheldon G. Adelson (including certain trusts)

266,957,053

$

18,396,608

Adelson Family Trusts

40,356,105

2,465,508

William P. Weidner (including certain trusts)

6,252,834

92,396

Bradley H. Stone (including certain trusts)

4,689,625

38,965

Robert G. Goldstein (including certain trusts)

3,126,417

25,977

Charles D. Forman

665,082

(31,948

)

(1)

Harry Miltenberger

212,826

22,000

(1)

Mr. Forman had received prior tax distribution payments
    which exceeded those amounts due to him at the time of the
    calculation of the distribution paid on January 10, 2005.

Transactions with Interface Holding.

Prior to our acquisition of Interface Holding, it was owned by
Mr. Adelson, our principal stockholder. The following are
transactions that Las Vegas Sands, Inc. had entered into with
Interface Holding prior its acquisition by Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
on July 29, 2004.

Redeemable Preferred Interest

Until February 2005, Venetian Casino Resort, LLC had two
members, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Interface Holding. Las Vegas
Sands, Inc. is the managing member of Venetian Casino Resort,
LLC and owns 100% of the common equity interest in Venetian
Casino Resort, LLC. Las Vegas Sands, Inc. also owned 100% of
Interface Holding. Until February 2005, Interface Holding held
the redeemable preferred interest in Venetian Casino Resort,
LLC. The redeemable preferred interest was non-voting, not
subject to mandatory redemption or redemption at the option of
the holder and had a preferred return of 12%. As of
July 29, 2004, $133.5 million had accrued on the
redeemable preferred interest and had not yet been paid. Las
Vegas Sands, Inc. ceased accrual of the preferred return as of
July 29, 2004 and retired the redeemable preferred interest
following a merger of Interface Holding into Las Vegas Sands,
Inc. in February 2005.

Cooperation Agreement

Our business plan calls for each of The Venetian, The Congress
Center, The Grand Canal Shops mall, The Sands Expo Center, The
Palazzo and the Phase II mall to be integrally related
parts of a single project. In order to establish terms for the
integrated operation of these facilities, Las Vegas Sands, Inc.,
GGP, Interface Group-Nevada, the owner of The Sands Expo Center,
and Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s subsidiary, Lido Casino Resort,
LLC, are parties to The Second Amended and Restated Reciprocal
Easement, Use and Operating Agreement, dated as of May 17,
2004, which we refer to as the cooperation agreement. The
cooperation agreement sets forth agreements among the parties
regarding, among other things, encroachments, easements,
operating standards, maintenance requirements, insurance
requirements, casualty and condemnation, joint marketing, the
construction of The Palazzo and the sharing of certain
facilities and costs relating thereto. No payments were made
among affiliates under the cooperation agreement in 2003, 2004
or 2005.

Administrative Services Agreement

Pursuant to an administrative services agreement among Las Vegas
Sands, Inc., certain of its subsidiaries and Interface
Operations, LLC, an entity that is controlled by our principal
stockholder and unaffiliated with



us (“Interface”), the parties have agreed to share
ratably in the costs of, and under certain circumstances provide
to one another, shared services, including legal services,
accounting services, insurance administration, benefits
administration, travel services and such other services as each
party may request of the other. In addition, under this
administrative services agreement, the parties have agreed to
share ratably the costs of any shared office space. Prior to
August 2004, Interface Holding and Interface Group-Nevada also
were party to this agreement.

As of November 8, 2004, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. assigned the
interest of Interface Holding and Interface Group-Nevada in this
administrative services agreement to Interface for no
consideration. Prior to the Interface Holding acquisition,
Interface Holding and Interface Group-Nevada provided or
arranged certain services for Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and its
subsidiaries under the administrative services agreement. The
services were provided by certain other entities controlled by
Mr. Adelson. After Interface Holding and Interface
Group-Nevada were acquired by Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and became
subsidiaries of Las Vegas Sands, Inc., it was determined that
the agreement should be assigned to another company controlled
by Mr. Adelson so that the Las Vegas Sands entities would
have a direct claim against the entity providing the services
rather than against a subsidiary of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. The
assignment did not change any of the terms of the administrative
services agreement or what services are being provided.

Prior to January 1, 2005, under this services agreement,
Las Vegas Sands, Inc. used a Gulfstream III aircraft, which
was operated by an affiliate of our principal stockholder. The
aircraft was used for the benefit of executive officers,
including our principal stockholder, and for customers.
(See — Transactions Relating to Aircraft —
Time Sharing Agreement below for a description of the new Time
Sharing Agreement relating to this aircraft.) Charge-backs to
Las Vegas Sands, Inc. in connection with this use were based on
certain actual costs to operate the aircraft allocated in
accordance with the purpose for which the aircraft is used.
Total payments made or accrued by Las Vegas Sands, Inc. to
Interface (Interface Holding, Interface Group-Nevada and their
affiliates prior to August 2004) pursuant to this administrative
services agreement were approximately $1.5 million in 2003
and $1.2 million in 2004. In 2005, total payments from
Interface to Las Vegas Sands, LLC pursuant to this services
agreement were $77,000. Prior to August 2004, in the course of
providing convention services to their customers, Interface
Holding, Interface Group-Nevada or their affiliates might have
been required to use The Venetian’s meeting space to
accommodate requests by their customers. Total payments made or
accrued to Las Vegas Sands, Inc. from Interface Holding,
Interface Group-Nevada or their affiliates for these purposes
were $2.7 million in 2003 and $21,000 in 2004. In 2005,
there were no payments to Las Vegas Sands, LLC for these
purposes.

In addition, under the administrative services agreement, the
Company and its subsidiaries paid approximately
$3.1 million and $3.0 million during 2004 and 2005,
respectively, to Interface Group Massachusetts, LLC, a
Massachusetts limited liability company that operates GWV
Travel, a travel agent and charter tour operator
(“GWV”), for travel and travel related services. GWV
is controlled by entities for which our director Irwin Chafetz
is a director and a 12.5% shareholder and which are controlled
by our principal stockholder, Mr. Adelson. Mr. Forman
is also a trustee of a voting trust that owns 6.2% of the sole
member of GWV Travel. The beneficiaries of that voting trust
include the children of Mr. Chafetz. The payments included
primarily the cost of airline tickets, which are paid by GWV to
third party air carriers on behalf of the Company and its
subsidiaries, and related travel agency commissions and service
fees which are retained by GWV. Approximately $140,000 and
$108,000 of the total paid by the Company and its subsidiaries
was retained as fees and commissions in 2004 and 2005,
respectively.

Hotel Service Agreement

Prior to its acquisition by Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (now Las Vegas
Sands, LLC) in 2004, Interface Group-Nevada provided audio
visual services, telecommunications, electrical, janitorial and
other related services to group customers of The Venetian Resort
Hotel Casino. These services were provided pursuant to a
contract that provided for an equal sharing of revenues after
direct operating expenses. Pursuant to this contract,
Las Vegas Sands, Inc. received $2.7 million during
2003 and $2.8 million during each of 2004 and 2005.



Temporary Lease

On November 1, 1996, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Interface
Group-Nevada entered into a lease agreement whereby Las Vegas
Sands, Inc. agreed to lease approximately 5,000 square feet
in The Sands Expo Center to be used as its temporary executive
offices during the construction of The Venetian Resort Hotel
Casino. Management believes that the lease agreement, which
provided for monthly rent of $5,000 to be paid by Las Vegas
Sands, Inc. to Interface Group-Nevada, were at least as
favorable as that which Las Vegas Sands, Inc. could have
obtained from an independent third party. The rent amount was
determined based upon the rent per square foot of office space
with comparable square footage in Las Vegas at the time. Total
payments made by Las Vegas Sands, Inc. to Interface Group-Nevada
pursuant to the lease agreement totaled $20,000 in 2003. This
lease was terminated as of May 1, 2003.

Preferred Reservation System Agreement

Las Vegas Sands, Inc. entered into a preferred reservation
system agreement with Interface Group-Nevada that governs the
booking of exposition and trade shows in the meeting space in
the Venezia Tower and in The Sands Expo Center. The agreement
provides The Sands Expo Center with the first opportunity or
right of first refusal to book or host expositions and trade
shows prior to these expositions and trade shows being offered
to the Venezia Tower addition meeting space. This agreement has
not been utilized since the acquisition in August 2004.

Registration Rights Agreement

Messrs. Adelson, Forman, Weidner, Stone, Goldstein and
certain other stockholders and employees, former employees and
certain trusts that they established have entered into a
registration rights agreement with us relating to the shares of
common stock they hold. Subject to several exceptions, including
our right to defer a demand registration under certain
circumstances, Mr. Adelson and the trusts he established
may require that we register for public resale under the
Securities Act of 1933 all shares of common stock they request
be registered at any time, subject to certain conditions.
Mr. Adelson and the trusts may demand registrations so long
as the securities being registered in each registration
statement are reasonably expected to produce aggregate proceeds
of $20 million or more. On February 14, 2006, we filed
a registration statement on
Form

S-1

for an
underwritten secondary stock offering by certain trusts for the
benefit of Mr. Adelson and his family. If we become
eligible to register the sale of our securities on
Form

S-3

under the
Securities Act, Mr. Adelson and the trusts have the right
to require us to register the sale of the common stock held by
them on Form

S-3,

subject to offering size and other restrictions.

The other stockholders that are party to this agreement were
granted piggyback registration rights on any registration for
the account of Mr. Adelson or the trusts that he established,
subject to cutbacks if the registration requested by the Adelson
entities is in the form of a firm commitment underwritten
offering and if the underwriters of the offering determine that
the number of securities to be offered would jeopardize the
success of the offering.

In addition, the stockholders and employees that are party to
this agreement and the trusts have been granted piggyback rights
on any registration for our account or the account of another
stockholder, subject to cutbacks if the underwriters in an
underwritten offering determine that the number of securities
offered in a piggyback registration would jeopardize the success
of the offering.

In connection with any registrations described above, we will
indemnify the selling stockholders and pay all fees, costs and
expenses, except that we will not pay underwriting discounts and
commissions and the fees, costs and expenses of the selling
stockholders other than Mr. Adelson and the trusts he
established.



Tax Indemnification

In connection with our 2004 initial public offering, Las Vegas
Sands, Inc. and certain other parties entered into an
indemnification agreement pursuant to which it agreed to:

•

indemnify those of our stockholders who were stockholders of Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. prior to the 2004 initial public offering
    against certain tax liabilities incurred by these stockholders
    as a result of adjustments (pursuant to a determination by, or a
    settlement with, a taxing authority or court, or pursuant to the
    filing of an amended tax return) to the taxable income of Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. with respect to taxable periods during which
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was a subchapter S corporation for
    income tax purposes; and

•

indemnify Mr. Adelson against certain tax liabilities
    incurred by Mr. Adelson as a result of adjustments
    (pursuant to a determination by, or a settlement with, a taxing
    authority or court, or pursuant to the filing of an amended tax
    return) to the taxable income of Interface Holdings with respect
    to taxable periods during which Interface Holdings was a
    subchapter S corporation for income tax purposes.

Transactions Relating to Aircraft

Time Sharing Agreement

On June 18, 2004, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. entered into an
aircraft time sharing agreement with Interface, which is
controlled by our principal stockholder. The agreement provides
for our use on a time sharing basis of a Boeing Business Jet
owned by an entity controlled by our principal stockholder. The
agreement has a term ending on December 31, 2005, but was
automatically extended by one year as neither party to the
agreement has given notice of non-renewal. Either party may
terminate the agreement on thirty days’ notice so long as
the party is not in default of the agreement. In addition, the
agreement automatically terminates upon the termination of the
lease between the owner of the aircraft and Interface. For use
of the aircraft, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. has agreed to pay
Interface fees equal to (1) twice the cost of the fuel, oil
and other additives used, (2) all fees, including fees for
landing, parking, hangar, tie-down, handling, customs, use of
airways and permission for overflight, (3) all expenses for
catering and in-flight entertainment materials, (4) all
expenses for flight planning and weather contract services,
(5) all travel expenses for pilots, flight attendants and
other flight support personnel, including food, lodging and
ground transportation, and (6) all communications charges,
including in-flight telephone, in each of clauses (1)
through (6) above, only during use of the aircraft. In
addition, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. will also be responsible for all
passenger ground transportation and accommodation in connection
with the use of the aircraft. Las Vegas Sands, Inc. paid
$620,000 in 2004 to Interface and was obligated to pay $665,450
to Interface in 2005.

Aviation and Related Personnel

Interface Employee Leasing, LLC (“IEL”), a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Company, is engaged primarily in the
business of providing aviation personnel, including pilots,
aircraft mechanics and flight attendants, and administrative
personnel, to the Company and to Interface. IEL was transferred
in August 2004 by our principal stockholder to Las Vegas Sands,
Inc. for no consideration and is now a wholly owned subsidiary.
IEL charges a fee to each of the Company and Interface for their
respective use of these personnel. The fees charged by IEL are
based upon its actual costs of employing or retaining these
personnel, which are then allocated between the Company and
Interface. The method of allocating these costs varies depending
upon the nature of the service provided. For example, pilot
services are allocated based upon the actual time spent
operating aircraft for the Company and for Interface,
respectively. The services of IEL’s aircraft mechanics and
administrative personnel are allocated based upon the number of
aircraft maintained by the Company and Interface, respectively.
During 2004 and 2005, IEL charged Interface $760,000 and
$1,212,576, respectively, for its use of IEL aviation and
related personnel.



Gulfstream Agreements

During 2005, the Company entered in to an Aircraft Interchange
Agreement (the “Interchange Agreement”) and an
Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement the “Time Sharing
Agreement”) with Interface, which is controlled by the
Company’s principal stockholder. The agreements were
effective as of January 1, 2005.

Under the terms of the Interface Agreement, the Company has
agreed to provide the use of its two Gulfstream G-IV aircraft
(the “G-IV Aircraft”) to Interface in exchange for
equal flight time by the Company’s executive officers and
customers on a Gulfstream III aircraft (the “G-III
Aircraft”) provided by Interface. The G-III Aircraft is
provided to the Company by Interface, and the G-IV Aircraft is
provided to Interface by the Company on an
“as-available” basis. At all times, the Company
retains the crew for, and has operational control of, the G-IV
Aircraft, and Interface retains the crew for, and has
operational control of, the G-III Aircraft.

There are no monetary charges for use of an aircraft under the
Interchange Agreement; however, to the extent that one party
incurs during any month a greater amount of “flight
specific expenses” in providing its aircraft to the other
party, the other party is obligated to pay the differential in
costs within 30 days after its receipt of a statement from
the party that incurred the costs. The “flight specific
expenses” include ferry or positioning costs, all fees
(including fees for landing, parking, hangar tie-down, handling,
customs, use of airways and permission for overflights),
expenses for flight planning and weather contract services,
catering and in-flight entertainment expenses, and travel
expenses for the pilots, flight attendants and other flight
support personnel.

Under the terms of the Time Sharing Agreement, the Company is
entitled to the use, on a time sharing basis, of the G-III
Aircraft provided by Interface. The Time Sharing Agreement is
intended to be used by parties if and when the Company’s
use of the G-III Aircraft exceeds the anticipated use by
Interface of the Company’s G-IV Aircraft (in other words,
there is not an equal exchange of flight time between the
parties under the Interchange Agreement and the Company has
further need for the G-III Aircraft). At all times, Interface
Operations retains the crew for, and has operational control of,
the G-III Aircraft.

For its use of the G-III Aircraft under the Time Sharing
Agreement, the Company is obligated to pay Interface an amount
equal to two times the cost of fuel and other lubricants used on
the Company’s flights, plus specific flight-related
expenses incurred in connection with the Company’s flights,
including travel expenses of the crew, hangar and tie-down costs
while the G-III Aircraft is away from Las Vegas, Nevada, landing
fees, customs fees, in-flight catering, communications charges,
passenger ground transportation, and flight planning and weather
services. Las Vegas Sands, LLC paid Interface $42,071 in 2005
relating to the Time Sharing Agreement.

Each agreement has an initial term ending on December 31,
2006, but is automatically extended by one year if neither party
to the agreement has given notice of non-renewal. Either party
may terminate each agreement on 30 days’ notice, so
long as the party giving the notice is not in default of the
agreement.

Restaurant Leases

Our principal stockholder is a partner in four entities that
operate restaurants in The Venetian. The terms and conditions of
the leases granted by us for these restaurants were at amounts
which management believed would be no less favorable than those
negotiated with independent third parties. Valentino Las Vegas
LLC and Night Market, LLC paid Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
$0.5 million and $1.0 million, and Postrio Las Vegas
LLC and Carnevale Coffee Bar LLC paid the Grand Canal
Shops II, LLC $0.5 million and $1.1 million for
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Las Vegas Sands, Inc. purchased the lease interest and assets of
Carnevale Coffee Bar LLC during 2003 for $3.1 million,
payable $625,000 during 2003 and $250,000 annually over ten
years, beginning in September 2003, of which 50% of these
payments are payable to a family trust of our principal
stockholder that owned a 50% interest in the entity that
operated the coffee bar. In connection with the sale of The
Grand Canal Shops mall, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. leased to GGP the
spaces occupied by the restaurants operated by Valentino Las
Vegas LLC and Night



Market, LLC, and sold to GGP the space occupied by the
restaurant operated by Postrio Las Vegas LLC. As a result, there
were no amounts paid to the Company for 2005.

Stock Option and Other Loans

In January 2002, our principal stockholder made loans to each of
Messrs. Weidner, Stone and Goldstein and to David Friedman, an
executive officer of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. who resigned on
March 1, 2004, to enable them to exercise options that they
had been granted to purchase common stock from the principal
stockholder. Each loan was evidenced by a full recourse demand
promissory note with interest at the short term annual
applicable federal rate (as defined in Section 7872 of the
Internal Revenue Code) determined to be a market rate at the
date of issuance consistent with the financial profile of the
borrower, to be adjusted each January, and compounding annually.
In 2005, this rate was 2.78%. Each note was a full recourse loan
and was collateralized by a pledge of the common stock issued to
each borrower. As of December 31, 2005, the loans to
Messrs. Weidner, Stone, Goldstein and Friedman had all been
repaid in full.

In March 2004, our principal stockholder made a loan to
Mr. Forman to enable him to purchase common stock from the
principal stockholder. The loan was evidenced by a full recourse
demand promissory note with floating interest at the applicable
federal rate (as defined in Section 7872 of the Internal
Revenue Code), compounding annually. In March 2004, this rate
was 1.71%. This note was collateralized by a pledge of the
common stock issued to Mr. Forman. Mr. Forman repaid
all outstanding amounts under his loan on October 19, 2004.

Equipment Purchases

During November 1999, our principal stockholder purchased idle
construction equipment from us (tower cranes) for
$2.0 million, the cost basis of the equipment, which was
its estimated fair value at the time of purchase. During 2003,
Las Vegas Sands, Inc. repurchased the tower cranes for
$0.8 million and paid our principal stockholder
$1.2 million of rent for the tower cranes for use during
the construction period for the Venezia Tower.

Other Transactions with our Principal Stockholder and his
Family

Las Vegas Sands, Inc. has employed Dr. Miriam Adelson, our
principal stockholder’s wife, as the Director of Community
Involvement since August 1990 where, in conjunction with our
Government Relations Department, she oversees and facilitates
our partnership with key community groups and other charitable
organizations. Her annual salary is $50,000 per year.

Las Vegas Sands, Inc. employed our principal stockholder’s
stepdaughter, who previously worked as a member of the Corporate
Finance Group of a national accounting firm, as Executive
Consultant for Corporate Development, and her husband, an
Israeli attorney, as International Business Development
Specialist, from October 2003 to August 2004, both at annualized
salaries of $85,000 per year. Beginning in 2005, Las Vegas
Sands, LLC has employed our principal stockholder’s other
stepdaughter as a member of the Corporate Finance Group and paid
her $49,000 in wages during 2005.

Based on the advice of an independent security consultant, Las
Vegas Sands, Inc. provides security coverage for our principal
stockholder, his spouse and minor children. A portion of the
cost of security coverage which the Company has determined was
non-business related (approximately $26,000 and $451,000 in the
aggregate in 2004 and 2005, respectively) was charged directly
to and paid by the principal stockholder.

Las Vegas Sands, Inc. purchases amenities and other products
used by hotel guests, such as robes, towels and slippers, from
Deluxe Hotels Supply, LLC, an approved Venetian vendor. Deluxe
Hotels Supply is owned by our principal stockholder’s
brother, Leonard Adelson. Las Vegas Sands, Inc. purchased
$935,002 of products from Deluxe Hotels Supply during 2003,
$2.4 million during 2004 and $1.8 million during 2005.
Management believes that the terms and conditions of the
purchases are no less favorable than those negotiated with
independent third parties.



Our principal stockholder’s brother, Leonard Adelson, acted
as a finder in connection with securing an agreement with a
laundry provider, for which he was paid a finder’s fee of
$1.3 million in 2004.

Our principal stockholder purchased banquet room, catering,
lodging and other goods and services from our properties in the
ordinary course during 2005, paying the Company approximately
$1.0 million for these goods and services.

Transactions with our Management

In April 2003, Las Vegas Sands, Inc. made loans to certain of
its executive officers. Loans were made to Messrs. Weidner,
Stone, Goldstein and Friedman with amounts outstanding as of the
repayment date of $336,551, $252,412, $168,275 and $84,137,
respectively. The loans bore interest at the greater of
4% per annum and an applicable short-term federal rate. In
September 2004, Messrs. Weidner, Stone and Goldstein each
repaid his loans in full. Mr. Friedman resigned from his
position as executive officer of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. on
March 1, 2004. His loan has been repaid in full.

Mr. Weidner purchased lodging, food and beverage and other
goods and services from our properties in the ordinary course
during 2005, paying the Company approximately $53,000 for these
goods and services.

Mr. Goldstein purchased lodging, food and beverage and
other goods and services from our properties in the ordinary
course during 2005, paying the Company approximately $77,000 for
these goods and services.

Property and Casualty Insurance

Prior to April 2005 the Company and entities controlled by the
Company’s principal stockholder which are not subsidiaries
of the Company (the “Stockholder Controlled Entities”)
purchased property and casualty insurance (including aviation
related coverages) together. The Stockholder Controlled Entities
and the Company each were allocated their applicable share of
the premiums and were separately invoiced for, and separately
paid for, this insurance. Commencing with the April 2005
coverage renewals, the Company and the Stockholder Controlled
Entities purchased separate insurance coverages, except that the
respective groups continue to bid for aviation related coverages
together, although the are separately invoiced for, and pay for,
this insurance. The two groups allocate the aviation insurance
costs not related to particular aircraft among themselves in
accordance with the other allocations of aviation costs
discussed above. During 2004, the Stockholder Controlled
Entities were separately invoiced for, and separately paid for,
insurance purchased by the Company on behalf of the Stockholder
Controlled Entities in the amount of approximately $405,000. The
allocation of premiums due for coverages placed on behalf of the
Company and the Stockholder Controlled Entities, respectively,
was determined with the assistance of an insurance consultant
who arranged for the placement of the coverages.

ITEM 14. —

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND
SERVICES

The following table sets forth fees paid or payable to our
independent registered public accounting firm in 2004 and 2005
for audit and non-audit services as well as the percentage of
these services approved by our Audit Committee:

% of Services

Approved by

Audit



Committee

Audit Fees

$

2,028,136

$

2,608,786

100%

Audit Related Fees

$

49,206

$

33,898

100%

Tax Fees

$

112,781

$

172,260

100%

All Other Fees

$

—

$

—

100%

The category of “Audit Fees” includes fees for our
annual audit and quarterly reviews, as well as audit related
accounting consultations, work related to our initial public
offering and work related to debt and other securities offerings.



The category of “Audit-Related Fees” includes
non-audit related accounting consultations and services related
to pension and benefit plans.

The category of “Tax Fees” includes tax consultation
and planning fees and tax compliance services.

Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures

Our Audit Committee Charter contains our policies related to
pre-approval of services provided by the independent registered
public accounting firm. The Audit Committee, or one of its
members if such authority is delegated by the Audit Committee,
has the sole authority to review in advance, and grant any
appropriate pre-approvals, of (a) all auditing services
provided by the independent registered public accounting firm
and (b) all non-audit services to be provided by the
independent registered public accounting firm as permitted by
Section 10A of the Securities Act of 1933 and, in
connection therewith, to approve all fees and other terms of
engagement.

The Audit Committee has adopted the following guidelines
regarding the engagement of the Company’s independent
registered public accounting firm to perform services for the
Company. For audit services (including audits of the
Company’s employee benefit plan), the independent
registered public accounting firm will provide the Audit
Committee with an engagement letter each year prior to
commencement of the audit services outlining the scope of the
audit services proposed to be performed during the fiscal year.
Generally a separate engagement letter is also provided for each
statutory audit for our foreign subsidiaries. If the terms of
the engagement letters are agreed to by the Audit Committee, the
engagement letters will be formally accepted. For tax services,
the independent registered public accounting firm will provide
the Audit Committee with a separate scope of the tax services
proposed to be performed during the fiscal year and may also
provide separate tax engagement letters for special projects for
our foreign subsidiaries. If the terms of the tax engagement
letters are agreed to by the Audit Committee, the tax engagement
letters will be formally accepted. All other non-audit services
will require pre-approval from the Board of Directors on a
case-by-case basis.

If the pre-approval authority is delegated to a member, the
pre-approval must be presented to the Audit Committee at its
next scheduled meeting.



PART IV

ITEM 15. —

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES.

(a)

Documents filed as part of the Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

(1) List of Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Balance Sheets

Consolidated Statements of Operations

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and
Comprehensive Income

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Notes to Financial Statements

(2) List of Financial Statement Schedules

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
Financial Statement Schedule

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(3) List of Exhibits













*

Filed herewith.

†

Confidential treatment has been requested and granted with
    respect to portions of this exhibit, and such confidential
    portions have been deleted and replaced with “**” and
    filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    pursuant to Rule 406 under the Securities Act of 1933.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this Annual Report on
Form

10-K

to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
authorized.

LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

March 2, 2006

/s/

Sheldon G. Adelson

Sheldon G. Adelson,

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this Annual Report on
Form

10-K

has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



Index to Exhibits











*

Filed herewith.

†

Confidential treatment has been requested and granted with
    respect to portions of this exhibit, and such confidential
    portions have been deleted and replaced with “**” and
    filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    pursuant to Rule 406 under the Securities Act of 1933.

165