10-K


p14105e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED
    STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

Form 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2008

or

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
    from     to

Commission file number

001-32373

LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Nevada

27-0099920

(State or other jurisdiction
    of

incorporation or organization)

(IRS Employer

Identification No.)

3355 Las Vegas Boulevard South

Las Vegas, Nevada

(Address of principal
    executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone
    number, including area code:

(702) 414-1000

Securities registered pursuant
    to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock ($0.001 par value)

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports); and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

(§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
    and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer
    or a small reporting company. See the definitions of “large
    accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and
    “small reporting company” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
    “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated
    filer” and “smaller reporting company” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer

þ

Accelerated
    filer

o

Non-accelerated
    filer

o

Smaller
    reporting company

o

(Do not check if a smaller
    reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

As of June 30, 2008, the last business day of the
    registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter,
    the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock
    held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $4,997,446,350
    based on the closing sale price on that date as reported on the
    New York Stock Exchange.

The Company had 652,831,025 shares of common stock
    outstanding as of February 19, 2009.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Description of document

Part of the Form 10-K

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be used in
    connection with the registrant’s 2009 Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders

Part III (Item 10 through Item 14)

Las Vegas
    Sands Corp.

Table of
    Contents

ii


PART I

ITEM 1. —

BUSINESS

Overview

Las Vegas Sands Corp. and its subsidiaries (“we” or
    the “Company”) own and operate The Venetian Resort
    Hotel Casino (“The Venetian Las Vegas”), The Palazzo
    Resort Hotel Casino (“The Palazzo”) and The Sands Expo
    and Convention Center (the “Sands Expo Center”) in Las
    Vegas, Nevada, and the Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao Resort
    Hotel (“The Venetian Macao”) and the Four Seasons
    Hotel Macao, Cotai
    Strip

TM

(the “Four Seasons Macao”) in Macao, People’s
    Republic of China (“China”). We are also creating a
    master-planned development of integrated resort properties,
    anchored by The Venetian Macao, which we refer to as the Cotai
    Strip

tm

in Macao. In addition, we are developing Marina Bay Sands, an
    integrated resort in Singapore, and Sands Casino Resort
    Bethlehem (the “Sands Bethlehem”), an integrated
    resort in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.

Our
    Company

Las Vegas Sands Corp. (“LVSC”) was incorporated as a
    Nevada corporation in August 2004. Our common stock is traded on
    the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the
    symbol “LVS.” Immediately prior to our initial public
    offering in December 2004, we acquired 100% of the capital stock
    of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (“LVSI”), a Nevada
    corporation and the direct or indirect owner and operator of The
    Venetian Las Vegas, Sands Expo Center and Sands Macao, by
    merging LVSI with and into our wholly-owned subsidiary, leaving
    LVSI as the surviving subsidiary. LVSI was incorporated in
    Nevada in April 1988. In July 2005, LVSI was converted into a
    limited liability company and changed its name to Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC (“LVSLLC”).

Our principal executive office is located at 3355 Las Vegas
    Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109. Our telephone number
    at that address is

(702) 414-1000.

Our website address is

www.lasvegassands.com.

The
    information on our website under “Investor
    Information” is not part of this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Our Annual Reports on

Form 10-K,

Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q,

Current Reports on

Form 8-K,

proxy statements and other Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”) filings, and any amendments to those reports
    and any other filings that we file with or furnish to the SEC
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available
    free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable
    after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
    SEC.

This Annual Report on

Form 10-K

contains certain forward-looking statements. See
    “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
    Statements.”

Our principal operating and developmental activities occur in
    three geographic areas: Las Vegas, Macao and Singapore.
    Management reviews the results of operations for each of its key
    operating segments: The Venetian Las Vegas, which includes the
    Sands Expo Center; The Palazzo; Sands Macao; The Venetian Macao;
    Four Seasons Macao; and Other Asia (comprised primarily of our
    ferry operations). Management also reviews construction and
    development activities for each of its primary projects, some of
    which have been suspended (as further described below): The
    Venetian Las Vegas; The Palazzo; Sands Macao; The Venetian
    Macao; Four Seasons Macao; Other Asia (comprised of the ferry
    operations and various other operations that are ancillary to
    our properties in Macao); Marina Bay Sands in Singapore; Other
    Development Projects (Cotai Strip parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8); and
    Corporate and Other (comprised primarily of airplanes, our St.
    Regis-branded Las Vegas condominium project and Sands
    Bethlehem). The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo operating
    segments are managed as a single integrated resort and have been
    aggregated as one reportable segment (collectively, the
    “Las Vegas Operating Properties”), considering their
    similar economic characteristics, types of customers, types of
    service and products, the regulatory business environment of the
    operations within each segment and our organizational and
    management reporting structure. See
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 17 — Segment
    Information.”



Operations

Las
    Vegas

With the opening of The Palazzo in December 2007, our Las Vegas
    Operating Properties represent an integrated resort with
    approximately 7,100 suites and approximately 225,000 square
    feet of gaming space, which includes approximately 260 table
    games and 2,850 slot machines.

The Venetian Las Vegas has 4,027 suites situated in a
    3,014-suite, 35-story three-winged tower rising above the casino
    and the 1,013-suite, 12-story Venezia tower situated above a
    parking garage. The casino at The Venetian Las Vegas has
    approximately 120,000 square feet of gaming space and
    includes approximately 130 table games and 1,450 slot machines.
    The Venetian Las Vegas features a variety of amenities for its
    guests, including a Paiza
    Club

tm

offering high-end services and amenities to VIP customers,
    including luxurious suites, spa facilities and private gaming
    rooms; a Canyon Ranch SpaClub, operated by Canyon Ranch; and a
    theater/entertainment complex featuring a wide variety of
    entertainment. The Venetian Las Vegas also includes an enclosed
    retail, dining and entertainment complex of approximately
    440,000 net leasable square feet (“The Grand Canal
    Shoppes”), which was sold to General Growth Partners
    (“GGP”) in 2004.

The Palazzo features modern European ambience and design
    reminiscent of Italian affluent living, is situated adjacent to
    and north of The Venetian Las Vegas, and is directly connected
    to The Venetian Las Vegas and Sands Expo Center. The casino at
    The Palazzo is approximately 105,000 square feet of gaming
    space and has approximately 130 table games and 1,400 slot
    machines. The Palazzo has a 50-floor luxury hotel tower with
    3,066 suites and includes a Canyon Ranch SpaClub; a Paiza Club;
    an entertainment center; and an enclosed shopping and dining
    complex of approximately 400,000 net leasable square feet
    (“The Shoppes at The Palazzo”), which was sold to GGP
    on February 29, 2008.

With approximately 1.2 million gross square feet of exhibit
    and meeting space, Sands Expo Center is one of the largest
    overall trade show and convention facilities in the United
    States (as measured by net leasable square footage). We also own
    and operate an approximately 1.1 million gross square foot
    meeting and conference facility that links Sands Expo Center to
    The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo. Together, we offer
    approximately 2.3 million gross square feet of
    state-of-the-art exhibition and meeting facilities that can be
    configured to provide small, mid-size or large meeting rooms

and/or

accommodate large-scale multi-media events or trade shows.
    Management believes that these combined facilities, together
    with the

on-site

amenities offered by The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo,
    provide a flexible and expansive space for large-scale trade
    shows and conventions.

Management markets the meeting and conference facility to
    complement the operations of Sands Expo Center for business
    conferences and upscale business events typically held during
    the mid-week period, thereby generating room-night demand and
    driving average daily room rates during the weekday
    move-in/move-out phases of Sands Expo Center’s events.
    Events at our exhibition and meeting facilities typically take
    place during the mid-week when Las Vegas hotels and casinos
    experience lower demand, unlike weekends and holidays during
    which occupancy and room rates are at their peaks. Our goal is
    to draw from attendees and exhibitors at these facilities to
    maintain mid-week demand at our hotels from this higher-budget
    market segment, when room demand would otherwise be derived from
    the lower-budget

tour-and-travel-group

market segment. In 2008, approximately 1.3 million visitors
    attended meetings, trade shows and conventions at Sands Expo
    Center and our meeting and conference facilities.

Macao

Our Macao operations consist of the Sands Macao, The Venetian
    Macao, Four Seasons Macao and other ancillary operations that
    support these properties.

We own and operate the Sands Macao, the first Las Vegas-style
    casino in Macao, pursuant to a

20-year

gaming subconcession. The Sands Macao is situated near the
    Macao-Hong Kong Ferry Terminal on a waterfront parcel centrally
    located between the Gonbei border gate and the central business
    district. This location provides the Sands Macao primary access
    to a large customer base, particularly the approximately
    9.7 million visitors who arrived in Macao by ferry in 2008.
    The Sands Macao includes approximately 229,000 square feet
    of gaming space and currently has approximately 450 table games
    and 1,100 slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices.
    The



Sands Macao also includes a 289-suite hotel tower, several
    restaurants, a spacious Paiza Club, a theater and other high-end
    services and amenities.

On August 28, 2007, we opened The Venetian Macao, the
    anchor property for our Cotai Strip development, which is
    located approximately two miles from Macao’s Taipa
    Temporary Ferry Terminal on Macao’s Taipa Island. The
    Venetian Macao includes approximately 550,000 square feet
    of gaming space and has approximately 620 table games and 2,130
    slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices, and a
    designed capacity of approximately 1,150 table games and 7,000
    slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices. The Venetian
    Macao, with a theme similar to that of The Venetian Las Vegas,
    also features a 39-floor luxury hotel tower with over 2,900
    suites; approximately 1.0 million square feet of retail and
    dining offerings; a convention center and meeting room complex
    of approximately 1.2 million square feet; a 15,000-seat
    arena that has hosted a wide range of entertainment and sporting
    events; and a 1,800-seat theater that features Zaia, an original
    production from Cirque Du Soleil.

Management believes that the convention center and meeting room
    complex combined with the

on-site

amenities offered at The Venetian Macao provides a flexible and
    expansive space for large-scale trade shows and conventions. We
    market The Venetian Macao similar to our Las Vegas Operating
    Properties, with events at the convention and meeting room
    complex typically taking place during the week when hotels and
    casinos in Macao normally experience lower demand, unlike
    weekends and holidays during which occupancy and room rates are
    at their peak. Our goal is to draw from attendees and exhibitors
    at our convention and meeting room complex to maintain mid-week
    demand at our hotel from this higher-budget market segment.

On August 28, 2008, we opened the Four Seasons Macao, which
    is located adjacent to The Venetian Macao. The Four Seasons
    Macao features 360 rooms and suites managed by Four Seasons
    Hotels Inc.; approximately 70,000 square feet of gaming
    space with approximately 120 table games and 200 slot machines
    or similar electronic gaming devices; several food and beverage
    offerings; conference and banquet facilities; and retail space
    of approximately 211,000 square feet, which is connected to
    the mall at The Venetian Macao. The property will also feature
    19 Paiza mansions, which are currently expected to open in the
    second quarter of 2009, and the Four Seasons Apartments Macao,
    Cotai
    Strip

tm

(the “Four Seasons Apartments”), which will consist of
    approximately 1.0 million square feet of Four
    Seasons-serviced and -branded luxury apartment hotel units and
    common areas. These units are intended for sale and are
    currently expected to open in the third quarter of 2009. As of
    December 31, 2008, we have capitalized construction costs
    of $873.4 million for this project (including
    $110.0 million of outstanding construction payables). We
    expect to spend approximately $360 million on costs to
    complete the Paiza mansions and Four Seasons Apartments,
    including FF&E, pre-opening costs and additional land
    premiums, and to pay for outstanding construction payables.

Development
    Projects

Given current conditions in the capital markets and the global
    economy and their impact on our ongoing operations, on
    November 10, 2008, we announced our revised development
    plan to suspend portions of our development projects and focus
    our development efforts on those projects with the highest rates
    of expected return on invested capital. Should general economic
    conditions not improve, if we are unable to obtain sufficient
    funding such that completion of our suspended projects is not
    probable, or should management decide to abandon certain
    projects, all or a portion of our investment to date on our
    suspended projects could be lost and would result in an
    impairment charge. In addition, we may be subject to penalties
    under the termination clauses in our construction contracts.

United
    States Development Projects

Sands
    Bethlehem

We are in the process of developing Sands Bethlehem, a gaming,
    hotel, retail and dining complex located on the site of the
    historic Bethlehem Steel Works in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, which
    is approximately 70 miles from midtown Manhattan, New York.
    Sands Bethlehem is also expected to be home to the National
    Museum of Industrial History, an arts and cultural center, and
    the broadcast home of the local PBS affiliate. In August 2007,
    our indirect majority-owned subsidiary, Sands Bethworks Gaming
    LLC (“Sands Bethworks Gaming”), was issued a
    Pennsylvania gaming license by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control
    Board. We own 86% of the economic interest of the gaming, hotel
    and entertainment portion of the property through our ownership
    interest in Sands Bethworks



Gaming and more than 35% of the economic interest of the retail
    portion of the property through our ownership interest in Sands
    Bethworks Retail, LLC (“Sands Bethworks Retail”).

We are continuing construction of the casino component of the

124-acre

development, which will open with 3,000 slot machines (with the
    ability to increase to 5,000 slot machines six months after the
    opening date) and will include a variety of dining options, as
    well as the parking garage and surface parking. As part of the
    revised development plan, construction activities on the
    remaining components, which include a 300-room hotel, an
    approximate 200,000-square-foot retail facility, a
    50,000-square-foot multipurpose event center and a variety of
    additional dining options, have been temporarily suspended and
    are intended to recommence when capital markets and general
    economic conditions improve. As of December 31, 2008, we
    have capitalized construction costs of $417.8 million for
    this project (including $68.3 million of outstanding
    construction payables). We expect to spend approximately
    $360 million on additional costs to complete the
    construction of the casino and parking components, costs to
    prepare the remaining portion of the site for delay, FF&E
    (including the additional 2,000 slot machines to be added six
    months after the opening date), pre-opening and other costs, and
    to pay outstanding construction payables. We expect to open the
    casino and parking components in the second quarter of 2009. The
    impact of the suspension on the estimated overall cost of the
    project’s remaining components is currently not
    determinable.

St.
    Regis Residences

We had been constructing a St. Regis-branded high-rise
    residential condominium tower, the St. Regis Residences at The
    Venetian Palazzo (the “St. Regis Residences”), which
    is situated between The Palazzo and The Venetian Las Vegas on
    the Las Vegas Strip and was expected to feature approximately
    400 luxury residences. As part of our revised development plan,
    we suspended our construction activities for the project due to
    reduced demand for Las Vegas Strip condominiums and the overall
    decline in general economic conditions. We intend to recommence
    construction when these conditions improve and expect that it
    will take approximately 18 months from when construction
    recommences to complete the project. As of December 31,
    2008, we have capitalized construction costs of
    $173.0 million for this project (including
    $49.8 million of outstanding construction payables). We
    expect to spend approximately $60 million on additional
    costs to prepare the site for delay and to complete construction
    of the podium portion (which is part of The Shoppes at The
    Palazzo and includes already leased retail and entertainment
    space), and to pay outstanding construction payables. The impact
    of the suspension on the estimated overall cost of the project
    is currently not determinable.

Macao
    Development Projects

We have submitted plans to the Macao government for our Cotai
    Strip developments, which represent five integrated resort
    developments, in addition to The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons
    Macao on an area of approximately 200 acres (which we refer
    to as parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8). The developments are expected
    to include hotels, exhibition and conference facilities,
    casinos, showrooms, shopping malls, spas, restaurants,
    entertainment facilities and other amenities. We had commenced
    construction or pre-construction for these five parcels and
    planned to own and operate all of the casinos in these
    developments under our Macao gaming subconcession. In addition,
    we were completing the development of some public areas
    surrounding our Cotai Strip properties on behalf of the Macao
    government. We intended to develop our other Cotai Strip
    properties as follows:

•

Parcels 5 and 6 were intended to include multi-hotel complexes
    with a total of approximately 6,400 luxury and mid-scale hotel
    rooms, a casino, a shopping mall and approximately 320 serviced
    luxury apartment hotel units. We will own the entire development
    and have entered into management agreements with
    Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts (“Shangri-La”) to
    manage two hotels under its Shangri-La and Traders brands,
    and Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
    (“Starwood”) to manage hotels under its Sheraton brand
    and a hotel and serviced luxury apartment hotel under its St.
    Regis brand. Under our revised development plan, we will
    sequence the construction of the project due to difficulties in
    the capital markets and the overall decline in general economic
    conditions. Phase I of the project includes the
    Shangri-La and Traders tower and the first Sheraton tower,
    along with the podium that encompasses the casino, associated
    public areas, portions of the shopping mall and approximately
    100,000 square feet of meeting space. We have suspended
    construction of phase I while we pursue project-level financing;
    however, there can be no assurance that such financing will be
    obtained. If and when financing has been obtained, we expect it
    will take approximately twelve months to



complete construction of phase I. Construction of phase II
    of the project, which includes the second Sheraton tower and the
    St. Regis hotel and serviced luxury apartment hotel, has been
    suspended until conditions in the capital markets and general
    economic conditions improve. As of December 31, 2008, we
    have capitalized construction costs of $1.65 billion for
    this project (including $152.6 million of outstanding
    construction payables). We expect to spend approximately
    $540 million on additional costs to prepare the site for
    delay and to pay outstanding construction payables. The impact
    of the revised development plan on the estimated overall cost of
    the project is currently not determinable. Our management
    agreements with Shangri-La and Starwood impose certain
    construction deadlines and opening obligations on us, and the
    delays described above create a significant risk that we may not
    be able to meet these deadlines and obligations. See
    “Item 1A — Risk Factors — Risks
    Associated with Our International Operations — Our
    revised development plan may give certain of our hotel managers
    for our Cotai Strip developments the right to terminate their
    agreements with us.”

•

Parcels 7 and 8 were intended to include multi-hotel complexes
    with luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms, a casino, a shopping mall
    and serviced luxury apartment hotel units. We will own the
    entire development and have entered into non-binding agreements
    with Hilton Hotels to manage Hilton and Conrad brand hotels and
    serviced luxury apartment hotel units on parcel 7, and Fairmont
    Raffles Holdings to manage Fairmont and Raffles brand hotels and
    serviced luxury apartment hotel units on parcel 8. We had
    commenced pre-construction and have capitalized construction
    costs of $119.3 million as of December 31, 2008. We
    intend to commence construction after necessary government
    approvals are obtained, regional and global economic conditions
    improve, future demand warrants it and additional financing is
    obtained.

•

For parcel 3, we have signed a non-binding memorandum of
    agreement with an independent developer. We have signed a
    non-binding letter of intent with Intercontinental Hotels Group
    to manage hotels under the Intercontinental and Holiday Inn
    International brands, and serviced luxury apartment hotel units
    under the Intercontinental brand, on this site. In total, the
    multi-hotel complex was intended to include a casino, a shopping
    mall and the serviced luxury apartment hotels units. We had
    commenced pre-construction and have capitalized construction
    costs of $35.6 million as of December 31, 2008. We
    intend to commence construction after necessary government
    approvals are obtained, regional and global economic conditions
    improve, future demand warrants it and additional financing is
    obtained.

The impact of the delayed construction of our Cotai Strip
    developments on our overall estimated cost to build is currently
    not determinable. As of December 31, 2008, we have
    capitalized an aggregate of $5.3 billion in construction
    costs for these Cotai Strip projects, including The Venetian
    Macao and Four Seasons Macao. We will need to arrange additional
    financing to fund the balance of our Cotai Strip developments
    and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain any of
    the additional financing required.

We have received a land concession from the Macao government to
    build on parcels 1, 2 and 3, including the sites on which The
    Venetian Macao (parcel 1) and Four Seasons Macao (parcel
    2) are located. We do not own these land sites in Macao;
    however, the land concession, which has an initial term of
    25 years and is renewable at our option in accordance with
    Macao law, grants us exclusive use of the land. As specified in
    the land concession, we are required to pay premiums, which are
    either payable over four years or are due upon the completion of
    the corresponding integrated resort, as well as annual rent for
    the term of the land concession. In October 2008, the Macao
    government amended our land concession to separate the retail
    and hotel portions of the Four Seasons Macao parcel and allowed
    us to subdivide the parcel into four separate components,
    consisting of retail, hotel/casino, Four Seasons Apartments and
    parking areas. In consideration for the amendment, we paid an
    additional land premium of approximately $17.8 million and
    will pay adjusted annual rent over the remaining term of the
    concession, which increased slightly due to the revised
    allocation of parcel use.

We do not yet have all the necessary Macao government approvals
    that we will need in order to develop our planned Cotai Strip
    developments on parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8. We have received a
    land concession for parcel 3, as previously noted, but have not
    yet been granted land concessions for parcels 5, 6, 7 and 8. We
    are in the process of negotiating with the Macao government to
    obtain the land concession for parcels 5 and 6, and will
    subsequently negotiate the land concession for parcels 7 and 8.
    Based on historical experience with the Macao government with
    respect to our land concessions for the Sands Macao and parcels
    1, 2 and 3, management believes that the land



concessions for parcels 5, 6, 7 and 8 will be granted; however,
    if we do not obtain these land concessions, we could forfeit all
    or a substantial part of our $1.77 billion in capitalized
    costs related to our developments on parcels 5, 6, 7 and 8 as of
    December 31, 2008.

Under our land concession for parcels 1, 2 and 3, we are
    required to complete the development of parcel 3 by August 2011.
    We believe that if we are not able to complete the development
    of parcel 3 by the deadline, we will be able to obtain an
    extension; however, no assurances can be given that an extension
    will be granted by the Macao government. If we are unable to
    meet the August 2011 deadline and that deadline is not extended
    or the portion of the land concession related to parcel 3 is not
    separated from the portions related to parcels 1 and 2, we could
    lose our land concession for parcels 1, 2 and 3, which would
    prohibit us from continuing to operate The Venetian Macao, Four
    Seasons Macao or any other facilities developed under the land
    concession, and we could forfeit all or a substantial portion of
    our $3.53 billion in capitalized costs related to our
    developments on parcels 1, 2 and 3 as of December 31, 2008.
    See “Item 1A — Risk Factors —
    Risks Associated with Our International Operations —
    We are required to build and open our developments on parcel 3
    of the Cotai Strip by August 2011. Unless we meet this deadline
    or obtain an extension, we may lose our right to continue to
    operate The Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao and any other
    facilities developed under the land concession.”

Singapore
    Development Project

In August 2006, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Marina Bay Sands
    Pte. Ltd. (“MBS”), entered into a development
    agreement (the “Development Agreement”) with the
    Singapore Tourism Board (the “STB”) to build and
    operate an integrated resort called Marina Bay Sands in
    Singapore. Marina Bay Sands is expected to include three 50+
    story hotel towers (totaling approximately 2,600 rooms), a
    casino, an enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex of
    approximately 800,000 net leasable square feet, a
    convention center and meeting room complex of approximately
    1.3 million square feet, theaters and a landmark iconic
    structure at the bay-front promenade that will contain an
    art/science museum. We are continuing to finalize various design
    aspects of the integrated resort and are in the process of
    finalizing our cost estimates for the project. As of
    December 31, 2008, we have capitalized 3.24 billion
    Singapore dollars (“SGD,” approximately
    $2.25 billion at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008) in costs for this project,
    including the land premium and SGD 378.4 million
    (approximately $263.0 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2008) of outstanding construction
    payables. As of December 31, 2008, we expect to spend
    approximately SGD 4.7 billion (approximately
    $3.27 billion at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008) on additional costs to complete the
    construction of the integrated resort, FF&E, pre-opening
    and other costs, and to pay outstanding construction payables
    through 2011, of which approximately SGD 2.59 billion
    (approximately $1.80 billion at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008) is expected to be spent in 2009
    before the project opens. As we have obtained
    Singapore-denominated financing and primarily pay our costs in
    Singapore dollars, our exposure to foreign exchange gains and
    losses is expected to be minimal. Based on our current
    development plan, we intend to continue construction on our
    existing timeline with the majority of the project targeted to
    open in late 2009 or early 2010.

Hengqin
    Island Development Project

We have entered into a non-binding letter of intent with the
    Zhuhai Municipal People’s Government of China to work
    together to create a master plan for, and develop, a leisure and
    convention destination resort on Hengqin Island, which is
    located within mainland China, approximately one mile from the
    Cotai Strip. In January 2007, we were informed that the Zhuhai
    Government established a Project Coordination Committee to act
    as a government liaison empowered to work directly with us to
    advance the development of the project. Under the revised
    development plan, we have indefinitely suspended the project.

Other
    Development Projects

When the current economic environment and access to capital
    improve, we may continue exploring the possibility of developing
    and operating additional properties, including integrated
    resorts, in additional Asian and U.S. jurisdictions, and in
    Europe. In July 2008, we withdrew our previously submitted
    application to develop a casino resort in the Kansas City,
    Kansas, metropolitan area.



The Las
    Vegas Market

The hotel/casino industry is highly competitive. Hotels on the
    Las Vegas Strip compete with other hotels on and off the Las
    Vegas Strip, including hotels in downtown Las Vegas. Competitors
    of our Las Vegas Operating Properties include resorts on the Las
    Vegas Strip, such as the Bellagio, Mandalay Bay, Wynn Las Vegas,
    Encore and Caesars Palace, and properties off the Las Vegas
    Strip. In addition, several large projects are expected to open
    in the next several years; some of these facilities are or will
    be operated by companies that may have significant name
    recognition and financial and marketing resources and may target
    the same customers as we do. We also compete with casinos
    located on Native American tribal lands. The proliferation of
    gaming in California and other areas located in the same region
    as our Las Vegas Operating Properties could have an adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows. Our Las Vegas Operating Properties also compete, to some
    extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and in
    Atlantic City, hotel/casino and other resort facilities
    elsewhere in the country and the world, internet gaming websites
    and state lotteries. As a result of the current economic
    environment and a reduction in discretionary consumer spending,
    the nature of the current operating environment may lend itself
    to increased competition particularly along the Las Vegas Strip.
    See “Item 1A — Risk Factors —
    Risks Related to Our Business — Our business is
    particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer
    spending as a result of downturns in the economy.”

In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may
    legalize, casino gaming in specific areas. The continued
    proliferation of gaming venues could significantly and adversely
    affect our business. In particular, the legalization of casino
    gaming in or near major metropolitan areas from which we
    traditionally attract customers could have a material adverse
    effect on our business. The current global trend toward
    liberalization of gaming restrictions and the resulting
    proliferation of gaming venues could result in a decrease in the
    number of visitors to our Las Vegas Operating Properties, which
    could adversely effect our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

Las Vegas generally competes with trade show and convention
    facilities located in and around major U.S. cities. Within
    Las Vegas, the Sands Expo Center competes with the Las Vegas
    Convention Center (the “LVCC”), which currently has
    approximately 3.2 million gross square feet of convention
    and exhibit facilities. A major expansion project for the LVCC
    is expected to be completed in 2011. In addition to the LVCC,
    Mandalay Bay, MGM Grand Hotel and Casino, Mirage and Wynn Las
    Vegas have convention and conference facilities that compete
    with our Las Vegas Operating Properties. Several large projects,
    which are expected to open in the next several years, may
    include additional convention and conference facilities.

To the extent that any of the competitors of our Las Vegas
    Operating Properties can offer a hotel/casino experience that is
    integrated with substantial trade show and convention,
    conference and meeting facilities, our competitive advantage in
    attracting trade show and convention, conference and meeting
    attendees could be adversely affected. In addition, other
    American cities are in the process of developing, or have
    announced plans to develop, convention center and other meeting,
    trade and exhibition facilities that may compete with ours.

The Macao
    Market

Macao
    as a Gaming and Resort Destination

Macao is regarded as the largest gaming market in the world and
    is the only market in China to offer legalized casino gaming. In
    May 2004, Sands Macao became the first Las Vegas-style casino to
    open in Macao and with our openings of The Venetian Macao in
    August 2007 and the Four Seasons Macao in August 2008, we
    believe that our high-quality gaming product has enabled us to
    capture a meaningful share of the overall market, including the
    VIP player market segment, in Macao.

Gaming revenues in Macao in 2008 reached $13.6 billion, a
    31.0% increase over 2007. Visits to Macao were up 11.8% in 2008,
    when compared to 2007. According to Macao government statistics,
    during 2008 (through November), 21.4% of visitors traveling to
    Macao stayed overnight in hotels and guestrooms and, for those
    who stayed overnight in hotels and guestrooms, the average
    length of stay was between 1 and 2 nights. We expect this length
    of stay to increase with increased visitation, the expansion of
    gaming and non- gaming amenities including



retail, entertainment, meeting and convention facility
    offerings, and the addition of upscale hotel accommodations in
    Macao.

Table games are the dominant form of gaming in Asia with
    baccarat being the most popular game, followed by other
    traditional U.S. and Asian games. Slot machines are offered
    in Macao, but the structure of the gaming market in Macao has
    historically favored table gaming. With the increase in the mass
    gaming market in Macao, slot machines are becoming an important
    feature of the market. We expect the slot machine business to
    grow in Macao, and we intend to continue to introduce more
    modern and popular products that appeal to the Asian marketplace.

We believe that as new facilities and standards of service are
    introduced, Macao will become an even more desirable tourist
    destination. The improved experience of visitors to Macao should
    lead to longer stays, an increase in repeat visitation from
    existing feeder markets and the opening of several new feeder
    markets. In addition, we believe that an expanding Chinese
    middle class will eventually lead to increased travel to Macao
    and generate increased demand for gaming, entertainment and
    resort offerings  as global general economic conditions improve.

Proximity
    to Major Asian Cities

Approximately 1.0 billion people are estimated to live
    within a

three-hour

flight from Macao and approximately 3.0 billion people are
    estimated to live within a

five-hour

flight from Macao. According to Macao government statistics,
    85.2% of the tourists who visited Macao in 2008 came from Hong
    Kong or mainland China. Although the total number of visitors
    from Hong Kong continues to grow, that market has shrunk as a
    percentage of the total visitor distribution from 38.9% in 2003
    to 27.2% in 2008, while visitors from mainland China made up
    58.0% of total visitors to Macao in 2008. Recent travel
    restrictions from mainland China are affecting overall
    visitation to Macao. See “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — Risks Associated with Our International
    Operations — The number of visitors to Macao,
    particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel
    to Macao may be disrupted.”

Gaming customers from Hong Kong, southeast China, Taiwan and
    other locations in Asia can reach Macao in a relatively short
    period of time, using a variety of transportation methods, and
    visitors from more distant locations in Asia can take advantage
    of short travel times by air to Macao, Zhuhai, Shenzhen,
    Guangzhou or to Hong Kong (followed by a road, ferry or
    helicopter trip to Macao). In addition, numerous carriers fly
    directly into Macao International Airport from many major cities
    in Asia. The relatively easy access from major population
    centers promotes Macao as a popular gaming and resort
    destination in Asia.

Macao draws a significant number of gaming customers from both
    visitors to and residents of Hong Kong. One of the major methods
    of transportation to Macao from Hong Kong is the jetfoil ferry
    service, including our ferry service, The Cotai Strip
    CotaiJet

tm

,

    which we opened in late 2007. Macao is also accessible from Hong
    Kong by helicopter. In addition, the proposed bridge linking
    Hong Kong, Macao and Zhuhai is expected to reduce the travel
    time between central Hong Kong and Macao. The bridge is expected
    be completed sometime between 2015 and 2016.

The Macao pataca and the Hong Kong dollar are linked to each
    other and, in many cases, are used interchangeably in Macao;
    however, currency exchange controls and restrictions on the
    export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact
    the success of our operations. For example, there are currently
    existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the
    export of the renminbi, the legal currency in China. In
    addition, restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede
    the flow of gaming customers from mainland China to Macao,
    inhibit the growth of gaming in Macao or negatively impact our
    gaming operations.

Competition
    in Macao

Gaming in Macao is administered through government-sanctioned
    concessions awarded to three different concessionaires and three
    subconcessionaires, of which we are one. The Macao government
    has undertaken contractually not to grant additional gaming
    concessions until April 1, 2009. If the Macao government
    were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macao through
    the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would
    face additional competition, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.



SJM, controlled by Stanley Ho, holds one of the three
    concessions and currently operates 19 facilities throughout
    Macao. Historically, SJM was the only gaming operator in Macao,
    with over 40 years of operating experience in Macao. Many
    of its 19 casinos are relatively small facilities that are
    offered as amenities in hotels; however, a number are large
    operations enjoying significant recognition by gaming customers
    in the marketplace. SJM was obligated to invest at least
    approximately 4.7 billion patacas (approximately
    $588.8 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008) by March 31, 2009, under its
    concession agreement with the Macao government. SJM’s
    projects include the recently expanded Grand Lisboa, the
    Fisherman’s Wharf entertainment complex and other projects.
    MGM Grand Paradise Limited, a joint venture between MGM MIRAGE
    and Stanley Ho’s daughter, Pansy Ho Chiu-King, obtained a
    subconcession in April 2005 allowing it to conduct gaming
    operations in Macao. The MGM Grand Macau opened in December 2007
    and features approximately 600 rooms, 375 table games, 900 slot
    machines, restaurants and entertainment amenities.

Galaxy Casino Company Limited (“Galaxy”) holds a
    concession and has the ability to operate casino properties
    independent of our subconcession agreement with Galaxy and the
    Macao government. Galaxy was obligated to invest at least
    4.4 billion patacas (approximately $551.2 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2008) by June
    2012 under its concession agreement with the Macao government.
    Galaxy currently operates five casinos in Macao, including
    StarWorld Hotel, which opened in October 2006 and has over 500
    hotel rooms and a 140,000 square foot gaming floor. Galaxy
    Macau, which will be located adjacent to The Venetian Macao, is
    currently expected to open in 2010 and upon completion will
    feature approximately 2,500 hotel rooms and capacity for 700
    table games and 4,000 slot machines.

Wynn Resorts (Macau), S.A. (“Wynn Resorts Macau”), a
    subsidiary of Wynn Resorts Limited, holds the third concession.
    Wynn Macau opened in September 2006 and with its expansion in
    late 2007, now includes an approximately 600-room hotel, a
    casino and other non-gaming amenities. In 2006, Wynn Resorts
    Macau sold its subconcession right under its gaming concession
    to an affiliate of Publishing and Broadcasting Limited
    (“PBL”), which permitted the PBL affiliate to receive
    a gaming subconcession from the Macao government. In May 2007,
    the PBL affiliate opened the Crown Macau, which includes an
    approximately 216-room hotel, a casino and other non-gaming
    amenities, and is currently constructing the City of Dreams, an
    integrated casino resort located adjacent to our Cotai Strip
    parcels 5 and 6, the first phase of which is set to open in
    summer of 2009.

Our Macao operations will also face competition from casinos
    located in other areas of Asia, such as the major gaming and
    resort destination Genting Highlands Resort, located outside of
    Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and casinos in South Korea and the
    Philippines, as well as pachinko and pachislot parlors in Japan.
    We will also encounter competition from other major gaming
    centers worldwide.

Advertising
    and Marketing

We advertise in many types of media, including television,
    internet, radio, newspapers, magazines and billboards, to
    promote general market awareness of our properties as unique
    vacation, business and convention destinations due to our
    first-class hotels, casinos, retail stores, restaurants and
    other amenities. We actively engage in direct marketing as
    allowed in various geographic regions, which is targeted at
    specific market segments, including the premium slot and table
    games markets.

Regulation
    and Licensing

State
    of Nevada

The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the
    State of Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and
    the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the
    “Nevada Act”) and various local regulations. Our
    gaming operations are also subject to the licensing and
    regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the
    “Nevada Commission”), the Nevada Gaming Control Board
    (the “Nevada Board”) and the Clark County Liquor and
    Gaming Licensing Board (the “CCLGLB” and together with
    the Nevada Commission and the Nevada Board, the “Nevada
    Gaming Authorities”).



The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada
    Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy
    that are concerned with, among other things:

•

the prevention of unsavory or unsuitable persons from having a
    direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any
    capacity;

•

the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting
    practices and procedures;

•

the maintenance of effective controls over the financial
    practices of licensees, including establishing minimum
    procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of
    assets and revenues, providing reliable record-keeping and
    requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities;

•

the prevention of cheating and fraudulent practices; and

•

the establishment of a source of state and local revenues
    through taxation and licensing fees.

Any change in such laws, regulations and procedures could have
    an adverse effect on our Las Vegas operations.

LVSLLC is licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to operate
    both The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo as a single resort
    hotel as set forth in the Nevada Act. The gaming license
    requires the periodic payment of fees and taxes and is not
    transferable. LVSLLC is also registered as an intermediary
    company of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (“VCR”). VCR is
    licensed as a manufacturer and distributor of gaming devices.
    LVSLLC and VCR are collectively referred to as the
    “licensed subsidiaries.” LVSC is registered with the
    Nevada Commission as a publicly traded corporation (the
    “registered corporation”). As such, we must
    periodically submit detailed financial and operating reports to
    the Nevada Gaming Authorities and furnish any other information
    that the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require. No person may
    become a stockholder of, or receive any percentage of the
    profits from, the licensed subsidiaries without first obtaining
    licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities.
    Additionally, the CCLGLB has taken the position that it has the
    authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock
    of any corporation controlling a gaming licensee. We, and the
    licensed subsidiaries, possess all state and local government
    registrations, approvals, permits and licenses required in order
    for us to engage in gaming activities at The Venetian Las Vegas
    and The Palazzo.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who
    has a material relationship to or material involvement with us
    or the licensed subsidiaries to determine whether such
    individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business
    associate of a gaming licensee. Officers, directors and certain
    key employees of the licensed subsidiaries must file
    applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and may be
    required to be licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Our
    officers, directors and key employees who are actively and
    directly involved in the gaming activities of the licensed
    subsidiaries may be required to be licensed or found suitable by
    the Nevada Gaming Authorities.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for
    licensing or a finding of suitability for any cause they deem
    reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing;
    both require submission of detailed personal and financial
    information followed by a thorough investigation. The applicant
    for licensing or a finding of suitability, or the gaming
    licensee by whom the applicant is employed or for whom the
    applicant serves, must pay all the costs of the investigation.
    Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada
    Gaming Authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny
    an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the
    Nevada Gaming Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a
    change in a corporate position.

If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer,
    director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or to have an
    inappropriate relationship with us or the licensed subsidiaries,
    we would have to sever all relationships with such person. In
    addition, the Nevada Commission may require us or the licensed
    subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any person who
    refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of
    suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject
    to judicial review in Nevada.

We, and the licensed subsidiaries, are required to submit
    periodic detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada
    Commission. Substantially all of our and our licensed
    subsidiaries’ material loans, leases, sales of securities
    and similar financing transactions must be reported to or
    approved by the Nevada Commission.



If it were determined that we or a licensed subsidiary violated
    the Nevada Act, the registration and gaming licenses we then
    hold could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked,
    subject to compliance with certain statutory and regulatory
    procedures. In addition, we and the persons involved could be
    subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the
    Nevada Act at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Further,
    a supervisor could be appointed by the Nevada Commission to
    operate the casinos, and, under certain circumstances, earnings
    generated during the supervisor’s appointment (except for
    the reasonable rental value of the casinos) could be forfeited
    to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension
    of any gaming registration or license or the appointment of a
    supervisor could (and revocation of any gaming license would)
    materially adversely affect our gaming operations.

Any beneficial holder of our voting securities, regardless of
    the number of shares owned, may be required to file an
    application, be investigated, and have its suitability as a
    beneficial holder of our voting securities determined if the
    Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such ownership
    would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of
    the State of Nevada. The applicant must pay all costs of
    investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in
    conducting any such investigation.

The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of
    our voting securities to report the acquisition to the Nevada
    Commission. The Nevada Act requires that beneficial owners of
    more than 10% of our voting securities apply to the Nevada
    Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after
    the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice
    requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an
    “institutional investor” as defined in the Nevada Act,
    which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 15%, of our
    voting securities (subject to certain additional holdings as a
    result of certain debt restructurings or stock re-purchase
    programs under the Nevada Act), may apply to the Nevada
    Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability if such
    institutional investor holds the voting securities only for
    investment purposes.

An institutional investor will be deemed to hold voting
    securities only for investment purposes if it acquires and holds
    the voting securities in the ordinary course of business as an
    institutional investment and not for the purpose of causing,
    directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the
    members of our Board of Directors, any change in our corporate
    charter, by-laws, management, policies or our operations or any
    of our gaming affiliates, or any other action which the Nevada
    Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding our voting
    securities only for investment purposes. Activities that are
    deemed consistent with holding voting securities only for
    investment purposes include:

•

voting on all matters voted on by stockholders;

•

making financial and other inquiries of management of the type
    normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes
    and not to cause a change in management, policies or
    operations; and

•

such other activities as the Nevada Commission may determine to
    be consistent with such investment intent.

If the beneficial holder of voting securities who must be found
    suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit
    detailed business and financial information including a list of
    beneficial owners. If the beneficial holder of nonvoting
    securities who must be licensed or found suitable is a
    corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed
    business and financial information including a list of
    beneficial owners holding more than 5% of its voting securities.
    The applicant is required to pay all costs of investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
    suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered
    to do so by the Nevada Commission or the Chairman of the Nevada
    Board may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a
    record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to
    identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable
    and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership
    of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond such
    period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may
    be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary
    action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable
    to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or
    a licensed subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries:

•

allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any
    voting right conferred through securities held by that person;



•

pay remuneration in any form to that person for services
    rendered or otherwise; or

•

fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable
    person to relinquish his or her voting securities including, if
    necessary, the purchase for cash at fair market value.

Our charter documents include provisions intended to help us
    comply with these requirements.

The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder
    of any debt security of a registered corporation to file an
    application, be investigated and be found suitable to own the
    debt security of such registered corporation. If the Nevada
    Commission determines that a person is unsuitable to own such
    security, then pursuant to the Nevada Act, the registered
    corporation can be sanctioned, including the loss of its
    approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada
    Commission, it:

•

pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest, or any
    distribution whatsoever;

•

recognizes any voting right by such unsuitable person in
    connection with such securities; or

•

pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form.

We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada
    that may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any
    time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a
    nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the
    identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities and we are also required to disclose the identity of
    the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure
    to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record
    holder unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum
    assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner.
    The Nevada Commission has the power to require our stock
    certificates to bear a legend indicating that such securities
    are subject to the Nevada Act; however, to date, no such
    requirement has been imposed on us.

We cannot make a public offering of any securities without the
    prior approval of the Nevada Commission if the securities or the
    proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct,
    acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or
    extend obligations incurred for such purposes. On
    November 20, 2008, the Nevada Commission granted us prior
    approval to make public offerings for a period of two years,
    subject to certain conditions (the “shelf approval”).
    The shelf approval includes prior approval by the Nevada
    Commission permitting us to place restrictions on the transfer
    of the membership interests and to enter into agreements not to
    encumber the membership interests of LVSLLC. However, the shelf
    approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice
    upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the Chairman
    of the Nevada Board. The shelf approval does not constitute a
    finding, recommendation, or approval by the Nevada Commission or
    the Nevada Board as to the investment merits of any securities
    offered under the shelf approval. Any representation to the
    contrary is unlawful.

Changes in our control through a merger, consolidation, stock or
    asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement, or any
    act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control,
    shall not occur without the prior approval of the Nevada
    Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered
    corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada
    Commission concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to
    assuming control of such registered corporation. The Nevada
    Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers,
    directors and other persons having a material relationship or
    involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be
    investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the
    transaction.

The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate
    acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting
    securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming
    licensees, and registered corporations that are affiliated with
    those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive
    corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has established a
    regulatory scheme to ameliorate the potentially adverse effects
    of these business practices upon Nevada’s gaming industry
    and to further Nevada’s policy to:

•

assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and
    their affiliates;

•

preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the
    corporate form; and

•

promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of
    corporate affairs.



Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the
    Nevada Commission before we can make exceptional repurchases of
    voting securities above the current market price thereof and
    before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be
    consummated.

The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of
    recapitalization proposed by the Board of Directors in response
    to a tender offer made directly to our stockholders for the
    purposes of acquiring control of the registered corporation.

License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending upon
    the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the
    State of Nevada and to Clark County, Nevada. Depending upon the
    particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable
    monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon:

•

a percentage of the gross revenues received;

•

the number of gaming devices operated; or

•

the number of table games operated.

The tax on gross revenues received is generally 6.75%. In
    addition, an excise tax is paid by us on charges for admission
    to any facility where certain forms of live entertainment are
    provided. VCR is also required to pay certain fees and taxes to
    the State of Nevada as a licensed manufacturer and distributor.

Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered,
    required to be registered, or under common control with such
    persons (collectively, “licensees”), and who proposes
    to become involved in a gaming operation outside of Nevada, is
    required to deposit with the Nevada Board, and thereafter
    maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the
    expenses of any investigation by the Nevada Board into their
    participation in such foreign gaming operation. The revolving
    fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the
    Nevada Commission. Thereafter, licensees are also required to
    comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada
    Act. Licensees are also subject to disciplinary action by the
    Nevada Commission if they knowingly violate any laws of any
    foreign jurisdiction pertaining to such foreign gaming
    operation, fail to conduct such foreign gaming operation in
    accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required
    of Nevada gaming operations, engage in activities that are
    harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming
    taxes and fees, or employ a person in such foreign operation who
    has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada
    on the ground of personal unsuitability or who has been found
    guilty of cheating at gambling.

The sale of alcoholic beverages by the licensed subsidiaries on
    the casino premises and Sands Expo Center is subject to
    licensing, control and regulation by the applicable local
    authorities. Our licensed subsidiaries have obtained the
    necessary liquor licenses to sell alcoholic beverages. All
    licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies
    involved have full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke
    any such licenses, and any such disciplinary action could (and
    revocation of such licenses would) have a material adverse
    effect upon our operations.

Commonwealth
    of Pennsylvania

Sands Bethworks Gaming is subject to the rules and regulations
    promulgated by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the
    Pennsylvania State Police and other agencies (collectively, the
    “PaGCB”).

On December 20, 2006, we were awarded one of two category 2
    “at large” gaming licenses available in Pennsylvania,
    and a location in the Pocono Mountains was awarded the other
    category 2 “at large” license. On the same day, two
    category 2 licenses were awarded to applicants for locations in
    Philadelphia, one category 2 license was awarded to an applicant
    in Pittsburgh, and six race tracks were awarded permanent
    category 1 licenses. The principal difference between category 1
    and category 2 licenses is that the former is available only to
    certain race tracks. A category 1 or category 2 licensee is
    authorized to open with up to 3,000 slot machines and to
    increase to up to 5,000 slot machines upon approval of the
    PaGCB, which may not take effect earlier than six months after
    opening. In July 2007, we paid a $50.0 million licensing
    fee to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and in August 2007 were
    issued our gaming license by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control
    Board. Just prior to the opening of Sands Bethlehem, we will be
    required to make a deposit of $5.0 million to cover weekly
    withdrawals of our appropriate share of the cost of regulation
    and the amount withdrawn must be replenished weekly.



We must notify the PaGCB if we become aware of any proposed or
    contemplated change of control including more than 5% of the
    ownership interests of Sands Bethworks Gaming or of more than 5%
    of the ownership interests of any entity that owns, directly or
    indirectly, at least 20% of Sands Bethworks Gaming, including
    LVSC. The acquisition by a person or a group of persons acting
    in concert of more than 20% of the ownership interests of Sands
    Bethworks Gaming or of any entity that owns, directly or
    indirectly, at least 20% of Sands Bethworks Gaming with the
    exception of the ownership interest of a person at the time of
    the original licensure when the license fee was paid, would be
    defined as a change of control under applicable Pennsylvania
    gaming law and regulations. Upon a change of control, the
    acquirer of the ownership interests would be required to qualify
    for licensure and to pay a new license fee of
    $50.0 million. The PaGCB retains the discretion to
    eliminate the need for qualification and may reduce the license
    fee upon a change of control. The PaGCB may provide up to
    120 days for any person who is required to apply for a
    license and who is found not qualified to completely divest the
    person’s ownership interest.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of
    our voting securities will be required to apply to the PaGCB for
    licensure, obtain licensure and remain licensed. Licensure
    requires, among other things, that the applicant establish by
    clear and convincing evidence the applicant’s good
    character, honesty and integrity. Additionally, any trust that
    holds 5% or more of our voting securities is required to be
    licensed by the PaGCB and each individual who is a grantor,
    trustee or beneficiary of the trust is also required to be
    licensed by the PaGCB. Under certain circumstances and under the
    regulations of the PaGCB, an “institutional investor”
    as defined under the regulations of the PaGCB, which acquires
    beneficial ownership of 5% or more, but less than 10%, of our
    voting securities, may not be required to be licensed by the
    PaGCB provided the PaGCB grants a waiver of the licensure
    requirement. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting
    securities, regardless of the number of shares beneficially
    owned, may be required at the discretion of the PaGCB to file an
    application for licensure.

In the event a security holder is required to be found qualified
    and is not found qualified, the security holder may be required
    by the PaGCB to divest of the interest at a price not exceeding
    the cost of the interest.

Subsequent to year-end, the PaGCB approved our petition seeking
    its consent of the suspension of the hotel, retail and
    multi-purpose center components of Sands Bethlehem. This
    approval is subject to monthly reviews by the PaGCB’s
    financial suitability task force and our meetings with this task
    force to evaluate our potential to finance the completion of the
    suspended components of the project. Once the task force
    determines that we have the potential the finance the suspended
    components, a public hearing will be set to consider
    establishing a completion date for the overall project.

Macao
    Concession and Our Subconcession

In June 2002, the Macao government granted one of three
    concessions to operate casinos in Macao to Galaxy. During
    December 2002, we entered into a subconcession agreement with
    Galaxy, which was approved by the Macao government. The
    subconcession agreement allows us to develop and operate certain
    casino projects in Macao, including Sands Macao, The Venetian
    Macao and Four Seasons Macao, separately from Galaxy. Under the
    subconcession agreement, we were obligated to develop and open
    The Venetian Macao and a convention center by December 2007,
    which we did. We are also obligated to operate casino games of
    chance or games of other forms in Macao and are required to
    invest, or cause to be invested, at least 4.4 billion
    patacas (approximately $551.2 million at exchange rates in
    effect on December 31, 2008) in various development
    projects in Macao by June 2009, which have been fulfilled.

If the Galaxy concession is terminated for any reason, our
    subconcession will remain in effect. The subconcession may be
    terminated by agreement between ourselves and Galaxy. Galaxy is
    not entitled to terminate the subconcession unilaterally;
    however, the Macao government, with the consent of Galaxy, may
    terminate the subconcession under certain circumstances. Galaxy
    will develop hotel and casino projects separately from us.

We are subject to licensing and control under applicable Macao
    law and are required to be licensed by the Macao gaming
    authorities to operate a casino. We must pay periodic fees and
    taxes, and our gaming license is not transferable. We must
    periodically submit detailed financial and operating reports to
    the Macao gaming authorities and furnish any other information
    that the Macao gaming authorities may require. No person may
    acquire any rights over the shares or assets of Venetian Macau
    Limited and its subsidiaries (“VML”) without first
    obtaining the approval of the Macao gaming authorities.
    Similarly, no person may enter into possession of its premises
    or operate



them through a management agreement or any other contract or
    through step in rights without first obtaining the approval of,
    and receiving a license from, the Macao gaming authorities. The
    transfer or creation of encumbrances over ownership of shares
    representing the share capital of VML or other rights relating
    to such shares, and any act involving the granting of voting
    rights or other stockholders’ rights to persons other than
    the original owners, would require the approval of the Macao
    government and the subsequent report of such acts and
    transactions to the Macao gaming authorities.

Our subconcession agreement requires approval of the Macao
    government for transfers of shares, or of any rights over such
    shares, in any of the direct or indirect stockholders in VML,
    including us, provided that such shares or rights are, directly
    or indirectly, equivalent to an amount that is equal or higher
    than 5% of the share capital in VML. This approval requirement
    will not apply, however, if the securities are listed and
    tradable on a stock exchange. In addition, this agreement
    requires that the Macao government be given notice of the
    creation of any encumbrance or the grant of voting rights or
    other stockholder’s rights to persons other than the
    original owners on shares in any of the direct or indirect
    stockholders in VML, including us, provided that such shares or
    rights are indirectly equivalent to an amount that is equal or
    higher than 5% of the share capital in VML. This notice
    requirement will not apply, however, to securities listed and
    tradable on a stock exchange.

The Macao gaming authorities may investigate any individual who
    has a material relationship to, or material involvement with, us
    to determine whether our suitability

and/or

financial capacity is affected by this individual. Our
    shareholders with 5% or more of the share capital, directors and
    some of our key employees must apply for and undergo a finding
    of suitability process and maintain due qualification during the
    subconcession term, and accept the persistent and long-term
    inspection and supervision exercised by the Macao government.
    VML is required to immediately notify the Macao government
    should VML become aware of any fact that may be material to the
    appropriate qualification of any shareholder who owns 5% of the
    share capital, or any officer, director or key employee. Changes
    in licensed positions must be reported to the Macao gaming
    authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny an
    application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the Macao
    gaming authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in
    corporate position. If the Macao gaming authorities were to find
    one of our officers, directors or key employees unsuitable for
    licensing, we would have to sever all relationships with that
    person. In addition, the Macao gaming authorities may require us
    to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file
    appropriate applications.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
    suitability after being ordered to do so by the Macao gaming
    authorities may be found unsuitable. Any stockholder found
    unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial
    ownership of the common stock of a company incorporated in Macao
    and registered with the Macao Companies and Moveable Assets
    Registrar (a “Macao registered corporation”) beyond
    the period of time prescribed by the Macao gaming authorities
    may lose their rights to the shares. We will be subject to
    disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is
    unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship
    with us, we:

•

pay that person any dividend or interest upon its shares;

•

allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any
    voting right conferred through shares held by that person;

•

pay remuneration in any form to that person for services
    rendered or otherwise; or

•

fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require that unsuitable
    person to relinquish its shares.

The Macao gaming authorities also have the authority to approve
    all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation
    holding a gaming license.

The Macao gaming authorities also require prior approval for the
    creation of liens and encumbrances over VML’s assets and
    restrictions on stock in connection with any financing.

The Macao gaming authorities must give their prior approval to
    changes in control of VML through a merger, consolidation, stock
    or asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement or any
    act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control.
    Entities seeking to acquire control of a Macao registered
    corporation must satisfy the Macao gaming authorities concerning
    a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control. The
    Macao



Gaming Commission may also require controlling stockholders,
    officers, directors and other persons having a material
    relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire
    control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval
    process of the transaction.

The Macao gaming authorities may consider that some management
    opposition to corporate acquisitions, repurchases of voting
    securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Macao gaming
    licensees, and Macao registered corporations that are affiliated
    with those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive
    corporate gaming.

The Macao gaming authorities also have the power to supervise
    gaming licensees in order to:

•

assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and
    their affiliates;

•

preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the
    corporate form; and

•

promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of
    corporate affairs.

The subconcession agreement requires the Macao gaming
    authorities’ prior approval of any recapitalization plan
    proposed by VML’s Board of Directors. The Chief Executive
    of Macao could also require VML to increase its share capital if
    he deemed it necessary.

The Macao government also has the right, after consultation with
    Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate the subconcession agreement at
    any time upon the occurrence of specified events of default,
    including:

•

the operation of gaming without permission or operation of
    business which does not fall within the business scope of the
    subconcession;

•

the suspension of operations of our gaming business in Macao
    without reasonable grounds for more than seven consecutive days
    or more than fourteen non-consecutive days within one calendar
    year;

•

the unauthorized transfer of all or part of our gaming
    operations in Macao;

•

the failure to pay taxes, premiums, levies or other amounts
    payable to the Macao government;

•

the failure to resume operations following the temporary
    assumption of operations by the Macao government;

•

the repeated failure to comply with decisions of the Macao
    government;

•

the failure to provide or supplement the guarantee deposit or
    the guarantees specified in the subconcession within the
    prescribed period;

•

the bankruptcy or insolvency of VML;

•

fraudulent activity by VML;

•

serious and repeated violation by VML of the applicable rules
    for carrying out casino games of chance or games of other forms
    or the operation of casino games of chance or games of other
    forms;

•

the grant to any other person of any managing power over
    VML; or

•

the failure by a controlling shareholder in VML to dispose of
    its interest in VML following notice from the gaming authorities
    of another jurisdiction in which such controlling shareholder is
    licensed to operate casino games of chance to the effect that
    such controlling shareholder can no longer own shares in VML.

In addition, we must comply with various covenants and other
    provisions under the subconcession, including obligations to:

•

ensure the proper operation and conduct of casino games;

•

employ people with appropriate qualifications;

•

operate and conduct casino games of chance in a fair and honest
    manner without the influence of criminal activities;



•

safeguard and ensure Macao’s interests in tax revenue from
    the operation of casinos and other gaming areas; and

•

maintain a specified level of insurance.

The subconcession agreement also allows the Macao government to
    request various changes in the plans and specifications of our
    Macao properties and to make various other decisions and
    determinations that may be binding on us. For example, the Macao
    government has the right to require that we contribute
    additional capital to our Macao subsidiaries or that we provide
    certain deposits or other guarantees of performance in any
    amount determined by the Macao government to be necessary. VML
    is limited in its ability to raise additional capital by the
    need to first obtain the approval of the Macao gaming and
    governmental authorities before raising certain debt or equity.

If our subconcession is terminated in the event of a default,
    the casinos and gaming-related equipment would be automatically
    transferred to the Macao government without compensation to us
    and we would cease to generate any revenues from these
    operations. In many of these instances, the subconcession
    agreement does not provide a specific cure period within which
    any such events may be cured and, instead, we would rely on
    consultations and negotiations with the Macao government to give
    us an opportunity to remedy any such default.

The Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons Macao are
    being operated under our subconcession agreement. This
    subconcession excludes the following gaming activities: mutual
    bets, lotteries, raffles, interactive gaming and games of chance
    or other gaming, betting or gambling activities on ships or
    planes. Our subconcession is exclusively governed by Macao law.
    We are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of
    Macao in case of any dispute or conflict relating to our
    subconcession.

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022.
    Unless our subconcession is extended, on that date, the casinos
    and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred
    to the Macao government without compensation to us and we will
    cease to generate any revenues from these operations. Beginning
    on December 26, 2017, the Macao government may redeem our
    subconcession by giving us at least one year prior notice and by
    paying us fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such
    compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount
    of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the
    redemption. See “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors — Risks Associated with Our International
    Operations — We will stop generating any revenues from
    our Macao gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of
    our subconcession in 2022 or if the Macao government exercises
    its redemption right.”

Under the subconcession, we are obligated to pay to the Macao
    government an annual premium with a fixed portion and a variable
    portion based on the number and type of gaming tables employed
    and gaming machines operated by us. The fixed portion of the
    premium is equal to 30.0 million patacas (approximately
    $3.8 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008). The variable portion is equal to
    300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for
    certain kinds of games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming
    table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical or
    mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines
    (approximately $37,580, $18,790 and $125, respectively, at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2008), subject to
    a minimum of 45.0 million patacas (or $5.6 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2008). We also
    have to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenues
    and applicable withholding taxes. We must also contribute 4% of
    our gross gaming revenue to utilities designated by the Macao
    government, a portion of which must be used for promotion of
    tourism in Macao. This percentage will be subject to change in
    2010.

Currently, the gaming tax in Macao is calculated as a percentage
    of gross gaming revenue; however, unlike Nevada, gross gaming
    revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a
    result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macao and are
    unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we have
    to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we
    were unable to collect on the related receivables. We are
    currently offering credit to customers in Macao on a very
    limited basis. If the laws are not changed, our business in
    Macao may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending
    credit to our customers. Although there are proposals to revise
    the gaming tax laws in Macao, there can be no assurance that the
    laws will be changed.

We have received an exemption from Macao’s corporate income
    tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games of
    chance for the five-year period ending December 31, 2013.
    See “Item 1A — Risk Factors —
    Risks



Associated with Our International Operations — We are
    currently not required to pay corporate income taxes on our
    casino gaming operations in Macao. This tax exemption expires at
    the end of 2013.”

Development
    Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board

On August 23, 2006, MBS entered into the Development
    Agreement with the STB to design, develop, construct and operate
    an integrated resort in Singapore called Marina Bay Sands. The
    Development Agreement includes a concession for MBS to own and
    operate a casino within the integrated resort. In addition to
    the casino, the integrated resort will include, among other
    amenities, a hotel, a retail complex, a convention center and
    meeting room complex, theaters, restaurants and an art/science
    museum. MBS expects the Development Agreement will be amended to
    reflect an agreement between MBS and the STB once approval is
    obtained on the final design plans of the integrated resort. MBS
    is one of two companies that has been awarded a concession to
    operate a casino in Singapore. Under the Development Agreement,
    the STB has provided a ten-year exclusive period (the
    “Exclusivity Period,” which began March 1,
    2007) during which only two licensees will be granted the
    right to operate a casino in Singapore. In connection with
    entering into the Development Agreement, MBS entered into a

60-year

lease with the STB for the parcels underlying the project site
    and entered into an agreement with the Land Transport Authority
    of Singapore for the provision of necessary infrastructure for
    rapid transit systems and roadworks within

and/or

outside the project site.

The term of the casino concession provided under the Development
    Agreement is for 30 years commencing from the date the
    Development Agreement was entered into. In order to renew the
    casino concession, MBS must give notice to the STB and other
    relevant authorities in Singapore at least five years before its
    expiration in August 2036. The Singapore government may
    terminate the casino concession prior to its expiration in order
    to serve the best interests of the public, in which event fair
    compensation will be paid to MBS.

Under the Development Agreement, MBS is required to be licensed
    by the relevant gaming authorities in Singapore before it can
    commence operating the casino under the casino concession. In
    connection with issuing the gaming license, the relevant gaming
    authorities will look into various factors relating to MBS,
    including, but not limited to, (i) its reputation,
    character, honesty and integrity, (ii) whether or not it is
    sound and stable from a financial point of view,
    (iii) confirming that it has a satisfactory corporate
    ownership structure, (iv) the adequacy of its financial
    resources in order to ensure the financial viability of the
    proposed casino operations, (v) whether it has engaged and
    employed persons who have sufficient experience managing and
    operating a casino and that are suitable to act in such
    capacities, (vi) its ability to sufficiently establish and
    maintain a successful casino operation, (vii) confirming
    that there are no business associations with any person, body or
    association who is not of good repute, has a disregard for
    character, honesty and integrity, or has undesirable or
    unsatisfactory financial resources, (viii) determining
    whether the persons associated or connected with the ownership,
    administration or management of the casino operations or
    business are suitable persons to act in such capacity and
    (ix) the development and operation plan for the casino.

The Development Agreement contains, among other things,
    restrictions limiting the use of the leased land to the
    development and operation of the project, requirements that MBS
    obtain prior approval from the STB in order to subdivide the
    hotel and retail components of the project, and prohibitions on
    any such subdivision during the Exclusivity Period. The
    Development Agreement also contains provisions relating to the
    construction of the project and associated deadlines for
    substantial completion and opening; the location of the casino
    within the project site and casino licensing issues; insurance
    requirements; and limitations on MBS’ ability to assign the
    lease or sub-lease any portion of the land during the
    exclusivity period. In addition, the Development Agreement
    contains events of default, including, among other things, the
    failure of MBS to perform its obligations under the Development
    Agreement and events of bankruptcy or dissolution.

The Development Agreement requires MBS to invest at least SGD
    3.85 billion (approximately $2.68 billion at exchange
    rates in effect on December 31, 2008) in the
    integrated resort, which investment is to be allocated in
    specified amounts among the casino, hotel, food and beverage
    outlets, retail areas, meeting, convention and exhibition
    facilities, key attractions, entertainment venues and public
    areas. This minimum investment requirement must be satisfied in
    full upon the earlier of eight years from the date of the
    Development Agreement or three years from the issuance of the
    casino license, which will not be granted by the relevant
    authorities in Singapore until at



least 50% of the required investment has been made and at least
    50% of the construction of the integrated resort is complete.
    MBS must complete the construction of the Marina Bay Sands by no
    later than August 22, 2014. MBS continues to pursue a
    construction schedule targeting the completion of the casino and
    a substantial portion of the integrated resort by the end of
    2009 with the balance of the integrated resort to open in 2010,
    according to a timetable currently being discussed with the STB
    and Singapore government. Under the terms of the Development
    Agreement, MBS has agreed to design, develop and construct the
    integrated resort in accordance with the plans set forth in its
    response to the request for proposal which was ultimately
    accepted by the STB. Any changes in the overall design and the
    components of the integrated resort from what was contained in
    the response to the request for proposal will require the prior
    approval of the Singapore government.

Employees whose job duties relate to the operations of the
    casino will need to be licensed by the relevant authorities in
    Singapore. MBS will also have to comply with internal control
    standards concerning the location, floor plans and layout of the
    casino; internal controls with respect to casino operations;
    relationships with and permitted payments to junket operators;
    security; casino access by Singaporeans and non-Singaporeans;
    and those relating to social controls and maintaining law and
    order. Final regulations and internal control standards have not
    been published, but MBS is actively engaged in a regular
    dialogue with the relevant authorities in Singapore in
    connection with the drafting, adoption and compliance with these
    regulatory requirements.

Under the Development Agreement, MBS will have to pay an annual
    license fee that will cover the costs of implementing and
    enforcing the proposed regulations. This is expected to be
    between SGD 12.5 million to SGD 15.0 million
    (approximately $8.7 million and $10.4 million,
    respectively, at exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2008) and will be reviewed every three years. During the
    Exclusivity Period, the Company must continue to be the single
    largest entity with a direct or indirect controlling interest of
    at least 20% in MBS. The Company is currently a 100% indirect
    controlling shareholder of MBS.

There will be a casino tax of 15% imposed on the gross gaming
    revenue from the casino, except in the case of gaming by premium
    players, in which case a casino tax of 5% will be imposed on the
    gross gaming revenue generated from such players. The tax rates
    will not be changed for at least 15 years. The casino tax
    will be deductible against the corporate income tax payable by
    MBS to the Singapore tax authorities. The provision for bad
    debts arising from the extension of credit granted to gaming
    patrons will not be deductible against gross gaming revenue when
    calculating the casino tax, but will be deductible for the
    purposes of calculating corporate income tax (subject to the
    prevailing law). MBS will be permitted to extend casino credit
    to persons who are not Singapore citizens or permanent
    residents, but will not be permitted to extend casino credit to
    Singapore citizens or permanent residents except to premium
    players.

The key constraint imposed on the casino under the Development
    Agreement is the total size of the gaming area, which must not
    be more than 15,000 square meters (approximately
    161,000 square feet). The following will not be counted
    towards the gaming area: back of house facilities, reception,
    toilets, food and beverage areas, retail shops, stairs,
    escalators and lift lobbies leading to the gaming area,
    aesthetic and decorative displays, performance areas and major
    aisles. The casino located within Marina Bay Sands may not have
    more than 2,500 gaming machines, but there is no limit on the
    number of tables for casino games permitted in the casino. In
    November 2008, the Casino Regulatory Authority of Singapore (the
    “CRA”) informed us, following our submission, that our
    conceptual casino floor plan for Marina Bay Sands complies with
    the CRA’s requirements for casino layout. This floor plan
    would permit Marina Bay Sands to feature up to 1,000 table games
    (increasing its original layout from 600). The layout of our
    final casino floor plan as well as other casino matters will be
    subject to final approval from the CRA when we apply for our
    casino license in 2009.

Employees

We directly employ approximately 28,500 employees worldwide
    and hire temporary employees on an as-needed basis. The
    employees at The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo are not
    covered by collective bargaining agreements. We are not aware of
    any union activity at our Macao operations. We believe that we
    have good relations with our employees.

Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union,
    which merged in 2004 with the Union of Needletrades Industrial
    and Textile Employees forming UNITE HERE currently has local
    unions on the Las Vegas



Strip including Local 226 Culinary and Bartenders Local 165.
    Other unions currently on the Las Vegas Strip include the
    Transport Workers Union of America representing Las Vegas
    Dealers Local 721, the Operating Engineers Union and the
    Teamsters Union. Prior to and after the opening of The Venetian
    Las Vegas, Local 226 has requested that we recognize it as the
    bargaining agent for employees of The Venetian Las Vegas. We
    have declined to do so, believing that current and future
    employees are entitled to select their own bargaining agent, if
    any. In the past, when other hotel/casino operators have taken a
    similar position, Local 226 has engaged in certain
    confrontational and obstructive tactics, including contacting
    potential customers, tenants and investors, objecting to various
    administrative approvals and picketing. Local 226 has engaged in
    these types of tactics in the past with respect to The Venetian
    Las Vegas and may continue to do so. Although we believe we will
    be able to operate despite such tactics, no assurance can be
    given that we will be able to do so or that the failure to do so
    would not result in a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows. Although no
    assurances can be given, if employees decide to be represented
    by labor unions, management does not believe that such
    representation would have a material effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Certain culinary personnel are hired from time to time for trade
    shows and conventions at Sands Expo Center and are covered under
    a collective bargaining agreement between Local 226 and Sands
    Expo Center. This collective bargaining agreement expired in
    December 2000 but automatically renews for annual periods on an
    annual basis. As a result, Sands Expo Center is operating under
    the terms of the expired bargaining agreement with respect to
    these employees.

Intellectual
    Property

Our principal intellectual property consists of, among others,
    the Sands, Venetian, Palazzo and Paiza trademarks, all of which
    have been registered or allowed in various classes in the
    U.S. In addition, we have also registered or applied to
    register numerous other trademarks in connection with our
    properties, facilities and development projects in the U.S.,
    Macao and Singapore. We have also registered

and/or

applied to register many of our trademarks in various foreign
    jurisdictions. These trademarks are brand names under which we
    market our properties and services. We consider these brand
    names to be important to our business since they have the effect
    of developing brand identification. We believe that the name
    recognition, reputation and image that we have developed attract
    customers to our facilities. Once granted, our trademark
    registrations are of perpetual duration so long as they are used
    and periodically renewed. It is our intent to pursue and
    maintain our trademark registrations consistent with our goals
    for brand development and identification, and enforcement of our
    trademark rights.

Agreements
    Relating to the Malls

The
    Grand Canal Shoppes

On April 12, 2004, we entered into an agreement with GGP to
    sell The Grand Canal Shoppes and lease to GGP certain restaurant
    and other retail space at the casino level of The Venetian Las
    Vegas for approximately $766.0 million. We completed the
    sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes on May 17, 2004. On the
    same date, we leased to GGP 19 spaces on the casino level of The
    Venetian Las Vegas currently occupied by various retail and
    restaurant tenants for 89 years with annual rent of one
    dollar, and GGP assumed our interest as landlord under the
    various space leases associated with these 19 spaces. In
    addition, on the same date, we agreed with GGP to:

•

continue to be obligated to fulfill certain lease termination
    and asset purchase agreements;

•

lease the portion of the Blue Man Group theater space located
    within The Grand Canal Shoppes from GGP for a period of
    25 years, subject to an additional 50 years of
    extension options, with initial fixed minimum rent of
    $3.3 million per year;

•

lease the gondola retail store and the canal space located
    within The Grand Canal Shoppes from GGP (and by amendment the
    extension of the canal space extended into The Shoppes at The
    Palazzo) for a period of 25 years, subject to an additional
    50 years of extension options, with initial fixed minimum
    rent of $3.5 million per year; and

•

lease certain office space from GGP for a period of
    10 years, subject to an additional 65 years of
    extension options, with initial annual rent of approximately
    $0.9 million.



The lease payments relating to the Blue Man Group theater, the
    canal space within The Grand Canal Shoppes and the office space
    from GGP are subject to automatic increases of 5% in the sixth
    lease year and each subsequent fifth lease year.

The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo

The Shoppes at The Palazzo opened on January 18, 2008, with
    some tenants not yet open and with construction of certain
    portions of the mall not yet completed. We contracted to sell
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo to GGP pursuant to a purchase and
    sale agreement dated as of April 12, 2004, as amended (the
    “Amended Agreement”). The total purchase price to be
    paid by GGP for The Shoppes at The Palazzo is determined by
    taking The Shoppes at The Palazzo’s net operating income,
    as defined in the Amended Agreement, for months 19 through 30 of
    its operations (assuming that the rent and other periodic
    payments due from all tenants in month 30 was actually due in
    each of months 19 through 30, provided that this

12-month

period can be delayed if certain conditions are satisfied)
    divided by a capitalization rate. The capitalization rate is
    0.06 for every dollar of net operating income up to
    $38.0 million and 0.08 for every dollar of net operating
    income above $38.0 million. On the closing date of the
    sale, February 29, 2008, GGP made its initial purchase
    price payment of $290.8 million based on projected net
    operating income for the first 12 months of operations
    (only taking into account tenants open for business or paying
    rent as of February 29, 2008). Pursuant to the Amended
    Agreement, periodic adjustments to the purchase price (up or
    down, but never to less than $250.0 million) are to be made
    based on projected net operating income for the then upcoming
    12 months. Subject to adjustments for certain audit and
    other issues, the final adjustment to the purchase price will be
    made on the

30-month

anniversary of the closing date (or later if certain conditions
    are satisfied) and will be based on the previously described
    formula. For all purchase price and purchase price adjustment
    calculations, “net operating income” will be
    calculated by using the “accrual” method of
    accounting. Under the Amended Agreement, we leased to GGP
    certain restaurant and retail space on the casino level of The
    Palazzo for 89 years with annual rent of one dollar and GGP
    assumed our interest as landlord under the various space leases
    associated with these spaces.

Pursuant to the Amended Agreement, we received an additional
    $4.6 million in June 2008, representing the adjustment
    payment at the fourth month after closing. Subsequent to
    year-end, we have agreed in principle with GGP to suspend the
    scheduled purchase price adjustments, subsequent to the June
    2008 payment, until March 2010. Due to the general downturn in
    national and local retail, economic and market conditions, there
    can be no assurance of what the final purchase price will be,
    although we currently believe that it will be in excess of costs
    incurred in constructing The Shoppes at The Palazzo; however, if
    circumstances change, we may be required to record an impairment
    charge in the future. Based on GGP’s current financial
    condition, there can be no assurance that GGP will make its
    future periodic payments.

Cooperation
    Agreement

Our business plan calls for each of The Venetian Las Vegas, The
    Palazzo, Sands Expo Center, The Grand Canal Shoppes, The Shoppes
    at The Palazzo and the currently delayed St. Regis Residences,
    though separately owned, to be integrally related components of
    one facility (the “Integrated Resort”). In
    establishing the terms for the integrated operation of these
    components, the cooperation agreement sets forth agreements
    regarding, among other things, encroachments, easements,
    operating standards, maintenance requirements, insurance
    requirements, casualty and condemnation, joint marketing, and
    the sharing of some facilities and related costs. Subject to
    applicable law, the cooperation agreement binds all current and
    future owners of all portions of the Integrated Resort, and has
    priority over the liens securing LVSLLC’s senior secured
    credit facility and in some or all respects any liens that may
    secure any indebtedness of the owners of any portion of the
    Integrated Resort. Accordingly, subject to applicable law, the
    obligations in the cooperation agreement will “run with the
    land” if any of the components change hands.

Operating Covenants.

The cooperation agreement
    regulates certain aspects of the operation of the Integrated
    Resort. For example, under the cooperation agreement, we are
    obligated to operate The Venetian Las Vegas continuously and to
    use it exclusively in accordance with standards of
    first-class Las Vegas Boulevard-style hotels and casinos.
    We are also obligated to operate and to use the Sands Expo
    Center exclusively in accordance with standards of first-class
    convention, trade show and exposition centers. The owners of The
    Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo are obligated
    to operate their properties exclusively in accordance with
    standards of



first-class restaurant and retail complexes. For so long as The
    Venetian Las Vegas is operated in accordance with a
    “Venetian” theme, the owner of The Grand Canal Shoppes
    must operate The Grand Canal Shoppes in accordance with the
    overall Venetian theme.

Maintenance and Repair.

We must maintain The
    Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo as well as some common areas
    and common facilities that are to be shared with The Grand Canal
    Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo. The cost of maintenance
    of all shared common areas and common facilities is to be shared
    between us and the owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo. We must also maintain, repair, and
    restore Sands Expo Center and certain common areas and common
    facilities located in Sands Expo Center. The owners of The Grand
    Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo must maintain,
    repair, and restore The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at
    The Palazzo and certain common areas and common facilities
    located within.

Insurance.

We and the owners of The Grand
    Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo must maintain
    minimum types and levels of insurance, including property
    damage, general liability and business interruption insurance.
    The cooperation agreement establishes an insurance trustee to
    assist in the implementation of the insurance requirements.

Parking.

The cooperation agreement also
    addresses issues relating to the use of the Integrated
    Resort’s parking facilities and easements for access. The
    Venetian Las Vegas, The Palazzo, Sands Expo Center, The Grand
    Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo may use the parking
    spaces in the Integrated Resort’s parking facilities on a
    “first come, first served” basis. The Integrated
    Resort’s parking facilities are owned, maintained, and
    operated by us, with the operating costs proportionately
    allocated among

and/or

billed to the owners of the components of the Integrated Resort.
    Each party to the cooperation agreement has granted to the
    others non-exclusive easements and rights to use the roadways
    and walkways on each other’s properties for vehicular and
    pedestrian access to the parking garages.

Utility Easement.

All property owners have
    also granted each other all appropriate and necessary easement
    rights to utility lines servicing the Integrated Resort.

Consents, Approvals and Disputes.

If any
    current or future party to the cooperation agreement has a
    consent or approval right or has discretion to act or refrain
    from acting, the consent or approval of such party will only be
    granted and action will be taken or not taken only if a
    commercially reasonable owner would do so and such consent,
    approval, action or inaction would not have a material adverse
    effect on the property owned by such property owner. The
    cooperation agreement provides for the appointment of an
    independent expert to resolve some disputes between the parties,
    as well as for expedited arbitration for other disputes.

Sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes or The Shoppes at The Palazzo
    by GGP.

We have a right of first offer in
    connection with any proposed sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes or
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo by GGP. We also have the right to
    receive notice of any default by GGP sent by any lender holding
    a mortgage on The Grand Canal Shoppes or The Shoppes at The
    Palazzo, if any, and the right to cure such default subject to
    our meeting certain net worth tests.

ITEM 1A. —

RISK
    FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below
    as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report
    on

Form 10-K

in connection with evaluating the Company. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently
    deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely effect
    our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are
    forward-looking statements. See “Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Special Note Regarding
    Forward-Looking Statements.”



Risks
    Related to Our Business

Recent
    disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our
    ability to raise additional financing. If we are unable to raise
    additional capital in the near term, we would need to consider
    suspending additional portions, if not all, of our remaining
    global development projects. Should general economic conditions
    not improve, if we are unable to obtain sufficient funding such
    that completion of our suspended projects is not probable, or
    should management decide to abandon certain projects, all or a
    portion of our investment to date on our suspended projects
    could be lost.

Widely documented disruptions in the commercial credit markets
    have resulted in a tightening of credit markets worldwide.
    Liquidity in the global credit markets has been severely
    contracted by these market disruptions, making it difficult and
    costly to obtain new lines of credit or to refinance existing
    debt. The effects of these disruptions are widespread and
    difficult to quantify, and it is impossible to predict when the
    global credit markets will improve or when the credit
    contraction will stop. In particular, our business and financing
    plan is dependent upon completion of various financings,
    including additional financings in Macao and Singapore, as
    described in “Item 7 — Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.”
    Given the state of the current credit environment, it may be
    difficult to obtain any additional financing on acceptable
    terms, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to
    complete our planned development projects, and as a consequence,
    our results of operations and business plans. If we are unable
    to raise additional capital in the near term, we would need to
    consider suspending additional portions, if not all, of our
    remaining global development projects. Should general economic
    conditions not improve, if we are unable to obtain sufficient
    funding such that completion of our suspended projects is not
    probable, or should management decide to abandon certain
    projects, all or a portion of the Company’s investment to
    date on our suspended projects could be lost and would result in
    an impairment charge. In addition, we may be subject to
    penalties under the termination clauses in our construction
    contracts.

In addition, some of our lenders may have suffered losses
    related to their lending and other financial dealings,
    especially because of the general weakening of the global
    economy and increased financial instability of many borrowers.
    As a result, some of the lenders under our credit facilities
    have become and may become insolvent, which could make it more
    difficult for us to borrow under the delayed draw and revolving
    portions of our existing credit facilities. Our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows could be
    adversely effected if we are unable to draw funds under these
    facilities because of a lender default.

Our
    business is particularly sensitive to reductions in
    discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the
    economy.

Consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and
    conventions and for the type of luxury amenities we offer is
    particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the
    corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure
    activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or
    consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as
    perceived or actual general economic conditions; the current
    housing crisis and the credit crisis; high energy, fuel and food
    costs; the increased cost of travel; the potential for bank
    failures; the weakening job market; perceived or actual
    disposable consumer income and wealth; fears of recession and
    changes in consumer confidence in the economy; or fears of war
    and future acts of terrorism. These factors could reduce
    consumer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities
    we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming
    our operations.

The current housing crisis and economic slowdown in the
    U.S. has resulted in a significant decline in the amount of
    tourism and spending in Las Vegas. According to Las Vegas
    visitor statistics, occupancy rates across Las Vegas declined by
    4.2%, room rates declined by 9.8% and gaming revenue declined by
    9.9%, in 2008 compared to 2007. For the quarter ended
    December 31, 2008, occupancy rates across Las Vegas
    declined by 9.3%, room rates declined by 12.3% and gaming
    revenue declined by 22.0%, compared to the quarter ended
    December 31, 2007.

The general global economic slowdown has also resulted in a
    recent decline in the number of visitors and gaming revenue in
    Macao. According to Macao government statistics, while gaming
    revenue increased 31.0% in 2008 as compared to 2007, gaming
    revenue for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, declined
    2.5% as compared to the quarter ended December 31, 2007.
    Visitor arrivals to Macao increased in 2008 by 11.8%; however,
    for the



quarter ended December 31, 2008, the increase was only 2.6%
    compared to the 2007 respective periods. In 2008, occupancy
    rates have declined 3.2%, as compared to 2007. If these recent
    trends continue, our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows may be adversely effected.

There
    are significant risks associated with our planned construction
    projects, which could adversely effect our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows from these planned
    facilities.

Our ongoing and future construction projects, such as our Cotai
    Strip projects, Marina Bay Sands, Sands Bethlehem and the St.
    Regis Residences, entail significant risks. Construction
    activity requires us to obtain qualified contractors and
    subcontractors, the availability of which may be uncertain.
    Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays
    caused by events outside of our control or, in certain cases,
    our contractors’ control, such as shortages of materials or
    skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental

and/or

geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference,
    unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction
    materials or equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing
    problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite
    materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations
    from governmental or regulatory authorities could increase the
    total cost, delay, jeopardize, prevent the construction or
    opening of our projects, or otherwise affect the design and
    features. In addition, the number of ongoing projects and their
    locations throughout the world present unique challenges and
    risks to our management structure. If our management is unable
    to successfully manage our worldwide construction projects, it
    could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows.

We have not entered into a fixed-price or guaranteed maximum
    price contract with a single construction manager or general
    contractor for the construction of our projects. As a result, we
    rely heavily on our in-house development and construction team
    to manage construction costs and coordinate the work of the
    various trade contractors. The lack of any fixed-price contract
    with a construction manager or general contractor will put more
    of the risk of cost-overruns on us. If we are unable to manage
    costs or we are unable to raise additional capital required, we
    may not be able to open or complete these projects, which may
    have an adverse impact on our business and prospects for growth.

The anticipated costs and completion dates for our projects are
    based on budgets, designs, development and construction
    documents and schedule estimates that we have prepared with the
    assistance of architects and other construction development
    consultants and that are subject to change as the design,
    development and construction documents are finalized and as
    actual construction work is performed. A failure to complete our
    projects on budget or on schedule may adversely effect our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Due to
    the suspension of certain of our development projects, the
    estimated costs to complete and open these projects is currently
    not determinable and therefore may have an adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See
    also “—  Risks Associated with Our International
    Operations — We are required to build and open our
    developments on parcel 3 of the Cotai Strip by August 2011.
    Unless we meet this deadline or obtain an extension, we may lose
    our right to continue to operate The Venetian Macao, Four
    Seasons Macao and any other facilities developed under the land
    concession.”

The failure to obtain the necessary financing, or satisfy these
    funding conditions, could adversely effect our ability to
    construct our development projects.

Because
    we are currently dependent upon our properties in two markets
    for all of our cash flow, we will be subject to greater risks
    than a gaming company with more operating properties or that
    operates in more markets.

We currently do not have material operations other than our Las
    Vegas and Macao properties. As a result, we will be entirely
    dependent upon these properties for all of our cash flow until
    we complete the development of our Marina Bay Sands, Sands
    Bethlehem and remaining Cotai Strip projects.

Given that our operations are currently conducted at properties
    in Las Vegas and Macao and that a large portion of our planned
    future development is in Macao and Singapore, we will be subject
    to greater degrees of risk than a



gaming company with more operating properties or that operates
    in more markets. The risks to which we will have a greater
    degree of exposure include the following:

•

local economic and competitive conditions;

•

inaccessibility due to inclement weather, road construction or
    closure of primary access routes;

•

decline in air passenger traffic due to higher ticket costs or
    fears concerning air travel;

•

changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations,
    including gaming laws and regulations;

•

natural and other disasters, including the risk of typhoons in
    the South China region or outbreaks of infectious diseases;

•

an increase in the cost of electrical power for our Las Vegas
    properties as a result of, among other things, power shortages
    in California or other western states with which Nevada shares a
    single regional power grid;

•

changes in the availability of water; and

•

a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas or Macao.

Our
    substantial debt could impair our financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows. We will need to incur additional
    debt to finance our planned construction projects.

We are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service
    obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately
    $10.47 billion of long-term debt outstanding. This
    substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to
    us. For example, it could:

•

make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations;

•

increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;

•

impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future
    for working capital needs, capital expenditures, development
    projects, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;

•

require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow
    from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our
    debt, which would reduce the funds available for our operations
    and development projects;

•

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in the business and the industry in which we operate;

•

place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that have less debt; and

•

subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases
    in interest rates as a significant portion of our debt is and
    will continue to be at variable rates of interest.

We expect that all of our current projects will be funded with
    existing cash balances, cash flows from operations and
    additional borrowings from our existing credit facilities, with
    the exception of those projects currently suspended. We cannot
    assure you that we will obtain all the financing required for
    the construction and opening of our suspended projects.

The
    terms of our debt instruments may restrict our current and
    future operations, particularly our ability to finance
    additional growth, respond to changes or take some actions that
    may otherwise be in our best interests.

Our current debt instruments contain, and any future debt
    instruments likely will contain, a number of restrictive
    covenants that impose significant operating and financial
    restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to:

•

incur additional debt, including providing guarantees or credit
    support;

•

incur liens securing indebtedness or other obligations;



•

dispose of assets;

•

make certain acquisitions;

•

pay dividends or make distributions and make other restricted
    payments, such as purchasing equity interests, repurchasing
    junior indebtedness or making investments in third parties;

•

enter into sale and leaseback transactions;

•

engage in any new businesses;

•

issue preferred stock; and

•

enter into transactions with our stockholders and our affiliates.

In addition, our U.S., Macao and Singapore credit agreements
    contain various financial covenants. See
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 1 — Organization and
    Business of Company — Development Financing
    Strategy” and “Item 8 — Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements —
    Note 8 — Long-Term Debt” for further
    description of these covenants and the potential impact of
    noncompliance.

Our
    insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible
    losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our
    insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain
    the same insurance coverage in the future.

Although we have all-risk property insurance for our operating
    properties covering damage caused by a casualty loss (such as
    fire, natural disasters or terrorism), each policy has certain
    exclusions. In addition, our property insurance coverage is in
    an amount that may be significantly less than the expected
    replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a
    total loss. Our level of insurance coverage also may not be
    adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty.
    In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes,
    nuclear events, loss of income due to cancellation of room
    reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism,
    deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and
    pollution, might not be covered at all under our policies.
    Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured
    losses.

We also have builder’s risk insurance for many of our
    construction projects in Las Vegas, Pennsylvania, Macao and
    Singapore. Builder’s risk insurance provides coverage for
    projects during their construction for damage caused by a
    casualty loss. In general, our builder’s risk coverage is
    subject to the same exclusions, risks and deficiencies as those
    described above for our all-risk property coverage. Our level of
    builder’s risk insurance coverage may not be adequate to
    cover all losses in the event of a major casualty.

In addition, although we currently have insurance coverage for
    occurrences of terrorist acts with respect to our properties and
    for certain losses that could result from these acts, our
    terrorism coverage is subject to the same risks and deficiencies
    as those described above for our all-risk property coverage. The
    lack of sufficient insurance for these types of acts could
    expose us to substantial losses in the event that any damages
    occur, directly or indirectly, as a result of terrorist attacks
    or otherwise, which could have a significant negative impact on
    our operations.

In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty
    loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these
    events or be subject to claims by third parties injured or
    harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and
    general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate
    to cover all losses in any such event.

We renew our insurance policies (other than our builder’s
    risk insurance) on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may
    become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy
    limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Among
    other factors, it is possible that regional political tensions,
    homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events or any
    change in government legislation governing insurance coverage
    for acts of terrorism could materially adversely effect
    available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on
    available coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our
    policy limits), additional exclusions from coverage or higher
    deductibles. Among other potential future adverse changes, in
    the future we may elect to not, or may not be able to, obtain
    any coverage for losses due to acts of terrorism.



Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to
    maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to
    satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default
    under these debt instruments or material agreements.

We
    depend on the continued services of key managers and employees.
    If we do not retain our key personnel or attract and retain
    other highly skilled employees or if our senior managers cannot
    work together effectively, our business will
    suffer.

Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to
    a large degree on the services of our senior management team,
    including Sheldon G. Adelson and our other executive officers.
    As described in “Item 7 — Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Management Developments”, our board
    of directors has instituted additional corporate policies and
    procedures to address governance concerns raised by senior
    management. The success of our business depends on the continued
    cooperation among members of our management team.
    Mr. Adelson, William P. Weidner, Bradley H. Stone, Robert
    G. Goldstein, Kenneth J. Kay and J. Alberto Gonzalez-Pita have
    each entered into employment agreements; however, we cannot
    assure you that any of our executive officers will remain with
    us. These agreements are currently scheduled to expire in
    December 2009 for Messrs. Adelson, Weidner, Stone and
    Goldstein and in December 2011 for Messrs. Kay and
    Gonzalez-Pita. We currently do not have a life insurance policy
    on any of the members of the senior management team. The death
    or loss of the services of any of our senior managers or the
    inability to attract and retain additional senior management
    personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.

We are
    controlled by a principal stockholder whose interest in our
    business may be different than yours.

Mr. Adelson, family members and trusts for the benefit of
    Mr. Adelson

and/or

his
    family members beneficially own (excluding unexercised warrants
    to purchase 87.5 million shares of our common stock)
    approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock as of
    December 31, 2008. Accordingly, Mr. Adelson exercises
    significant influence over our business policies and affairs,
    including the composition of our Board of Directors and any
    action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the
    adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation and the
    approval of a merger or sale of substantially all of our assets.
    The concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or even
    prevent a change in control of our company and may make some
    transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of
    Mr. Adelson. Because Mr. Adelson and trusts for the
    benefit of Mr. Adelson

and/or

his
    family members own more than 50% of the voting power of our
    company, we are considered a controlled company under the NYSE
    listing standards. As such, the NYSE corporate governance rules
    requiring that a majority of our Board of Directors and our
    entire compensation committee be independent do not apply to us.
    As a result, the ability of our independent directors to
    influence our business policies and affairs may be reduced. The
    interests of Mr. Adelson may conflict with your interests.

We are
    a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be
    distributions from our subsidiaries.

We are a parent company with limited business operations of our
    own. Our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We
    conduct most of our business operations through our direct and
    indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our primary sources of cash
    are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership
    interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings
    and cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our
    subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash
    flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. Our
    subsidiaries’ payments to us will be contingent upon their
    earnings and upon other business considerations. In addition,
    our subsidiaries’ debt instruments and other agreements
    limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other
    distributions to us. We expect that future debt instruments for
    the financing of our other developments, including our Cotai
    Strip developments, will contain similar restrictions.



Our
    business is sensitive to the willingness of our customers to
    travel. Acts of terrorism, regional political events and
    developments in the conflicts in certain countries could cause
    severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the number of
    visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel.
    A substantial number of our customers for The Venetian Las Vegas
    and The Palazzo use air travel to come to Las Vegas. On
    September 11, 2001, acts of terrorism occurred in New York
    City, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. As a result of
    these terrorist acts, domestic and international travel was
    severely disrupted, which resulted in a decrease in customer
    visits to Las Vegas, including our properties. Regional
    conflicts could have a similar effect on domestic and
    international travel. Most of our customers travel to reach our
    Las Vegas and Macao properties. Only a small amount of our
    business is generated by local residents. Management cannot
    predict the extent to which disruptions in air or other forms of
    travel as a result of any further terrorist act, outbreak of
    hostilities or escalation of war would adversely effect our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Risks
    Associated with Our U.S. Operations

We
    face significant competition in Las Vegas, which could
    materially adversely effect our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows. Some of our competitors have
    substantial resources and access to capital, and several of them
    are expanding or renovating their facilities. In addition, any
    significant downturn in the trade show and convention business
    could significantly and adversely affect our mid-week occupancy
    rates and business.

The hotel, resort and casino businesses in Las Vegas are highly
    competitive. We also compete, to some extent, with other
    hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and in Atlantic City, as well
    as hotel/casinos and other resort facilities and vacation
    destinations elsewhere in the United States and around the
    world. Many of our competitors are subsidiaries or divisions of
    large public companies and have substantial financial and other
    resources.

In addition, various competitors on the Las Vegas Strip are
    expanding and renovating their existing facilities. If demand
    for hotel rooms does not keep up with the increase in the number
    of hotel rooms, competitive pressures may cause reductions in
    average room rates.

We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on
    Native American tribal lands, including those located in
    California. While the competitive impact on our operations in
    Las Vegas from the continued growth of Native American gaming
    establishments in California remains uncertain, the
    proliferation of gaming in California and other areas located in
    the same region as our Las Vegas Operating Properties could have
    an adverse effect on our results of operations.

In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may
    legalize, casino gaming in specific areas, including
    metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract
    customers. A number of states have permitted or are considering
    permitting gaming at “racinos,” on Native American
    reservations and through expansion of state lotteries. The
    current global trend toward liberalization of gaming
    restrictions and resulting proliferation of gaming venues could
    result in a decrease in the number of visitors to our Las Vegas
    facilities by attracting customers close to home and away from
    Las Vegas, which could adversely effect our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

The Sands Expo Center provides recurring demand for mid-week
    room nights for business travelers who attend meetings, trade
    shows and conventions in Las Vegas. The Sands Expo Center
    presently competes with other large convention centers,
    including convention centers in Las Vegas and other cities.
    Competition will be increasing for the Sands Expo Center as a
    result of planned additional convention and meeting facilities,
    as well as the enhancement or expansion of existing convention
    and meeting facilities, in Las Vegas. Also, other American
    cities are in the process of developing, or have announced plans
    to develop, convention centers and other meeting, trade and
    exhibition facilities. To the extent that these competitors are
    able to capture a substantially larger portion of the trade show
    and convention business, there could be a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.



The
    loss of our gaming license or our failure to comply with the
    extensive regulations that govern our operations could have an
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

Our gaming operations and the ownership of our securities are
    subject to extensive regulation by the Nevada Commission, the
    Nevada Board and the CCLGLB. The Nevada Gaming Authorities have
    broad authority with respect to licensing and registration of
    our business entities and individuals investing in or otherwise
    involved with us.

Although we currently are registered with, and LVSLLC and VCR
    currently hold gaming licenses issued by, the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities, these authorities may, among other things, revoke
    the gaming license of any corporate entity or the registration
    of a registered corporation or any entity registered as a
    holding company of a corporate licensee for violations of gaming
    regulations.

In addition, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may, under certain
    conditions, revoke the license or finding of suitability of any
    officer, director, controlling person, stockholder, noteholder
    or key employee of a licensed or registered entity. If our
    gaming licenses were revoked for any reason, the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities could require the closing of the casino, which would
    have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition,
    compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations or
    licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or
    licenses applicable to our business or gaming licenses could
    require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

For a more complete description of the gaming regulatory
    requirements affecting our business, see
    “Item 1 — Business — Regulation
    and Licensing.”

Certain
    beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to
    file an application with, and be investigated by, the Nevada
    Gaming Authorities, and the Nevada Commission may restrict the
    ability of a beneficial owner to receive any benefit from our
    voting securities and may require the disposition of shares of
    our voting securities, if a beneficial owner is found to be
    unsuitable.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% of
    our voting securities will be required to apply to the Nevada
    Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after
    the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails a written notice
    requiring the filing. Under certain circumstances, an
    “institutional investor” as defined under the
    regulations of the Nevada Commission, which acquires beneficial
    ownership of more than 10%, but not more than 15%, of our voting
    securities (subject to certain additional holdings as a result
    of certain debt restructurings or stock repurchase programs
    under the Nevada Act), may apply to the Nevada Commission for a
    waiver of such finding of suitability requirement if the
    institutional investor holds our voting securities only for
    investment purposes. In addition, any beneficial owner of our
    voting securities, regardless of the number of shares
    beneficially owned, may be required at the discretion of the
    Nevada Commission to file an application for a finding of
    suitability as such. In either case, a finding of suitability is
    comparable to licensing and the applicant must pay all costs of
    investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in
    conducting the investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
    suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered
    to do so by the Nevada Gaming Authorities may be found
    unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the
    record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial
    owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable and who holds, directly
    or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a
    registered corporation beyond such period of time as may be
    prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal
    offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we
    receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder
    or to have any other relationship with us or a licensed
    subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries:

•

allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any
    voting right conferred through securities held by that person;

•

pay remuneration in any form to that person for services
    rendered or otherwise; or

•

fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable
    person to relinquish his or her voting securities including, if
    necessary, purchasing them for cash at fair market value.

For a more complete description of the Nevada gaming regulatory
    requirements applicable to beneficial owners of our voting
    securities, see “Item 1 —
    Business — Regulation and Licensing — State
    of Nevada.”



Certain
    beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to
    file a license application with, and be investigated by, the
    Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania State Police
    and other agencies.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of
    our voting securities will be required to apply to the PaGCB for
    licensure, obtain licensure and remain licensed. Licensure
    requires, among other things, that the applicant establish by
    clear and convincing evidence the applicant’s good
    character, honesty and integrity. Additionally, any trust that
    holds 5% or more of our voting securities is required to be
    licensed by the PaGCB and each individual who is a grantor,
    trustee or beneficiary of the trust is also required to be
    licensed by the PaGCB. Under certain circumstances and under the
    regulations of the PaGCB, an “institutional investor”
    as defined under the regulations of the PaGCB, which acquires
    beneficial ownership of 5% or more, but less than 10%, of our
    voting securities, may not be required to be licensed by the
    PaGCB provided the PaGCB grants a waiver of the licensure
    requirement. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting
    securities, regardless of the number of shares beneficially
    owned, may be required at the discretion of the PaGCB to file an
    application for licensure.

Furthermore, a person or a group of persons acting in concert
    who acquire(s) more than 20% of our securities, with the
    exception of the ownership interest of a person at the time of
    original licensure when the license fee was paid, would trigger
    a “change in control” (as defined under applicable
    law). Such a change in control could require us to re-apply for
    licensure by the PaGCB and incur a $50.0 million license
    fee.

In the event a security holder is required to be found qualified
    and is not found qualified, the security holder may be required
    by the PaGCB to divest of the interest at a price not exceeding
    the cost of the interest.

For a more complete description of the Pennsylvania gaming
    regulatory requirements applicable to beneficial owners of our
    voting securities, see “Item 1 —
    Business — Regulation and Licensing —
    Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.”

If the
    operating results of The Shoppes at The Palazzo continue to be
    less than we initially expected, if GGP (or any future owner of
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo or The Grand Canal Shoppes) breaches
    any of its material agreements with us, or if we are unable to
    maintain an acceptable working relationship with GGP (or any
    future owner), there could be a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

We have entered into agreements with GGP under which, among
    other things:

•

GGP remains obligated to make payments to us in connection with
    their purchase of The Shoppes at The Palazzo, which payments are
    based on projected and, ultimately, actual net operating income
    for The Shoppes at The Palazzo; and

•

GGP has agreed to operate The Grand Canal Shoppes and The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo subject to, and in accordance with, the
    cooperation agreement.

If the local and national economic downturn continues, the net
    operating income for The Shoppes at The Palazzo may continue to
    be significantly worse than expected at the time the complex was
    sold to GGP, and therefore the amounts GGP is obligated to pay
    us may also be significantly less than expected. (Several
    tenants at The Shoppes at The Palazzo whose sales have been less
    than initially expected have already asked for temporary
    reductions in base rent, to which we and GGP have agreed.)
    Further, as a result of GGP’s publicly disclosed liquidity
    and leverage problems, there can be no assurance that GGP will
    be able to pay us future amounts owed.

GGP has also announced that (i) the mortgage loan on The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo was due November 28, 2008, but GGP
    reported that it had obtained an extension from their lenders of
    the forbearance period until March 15, 2009, and was
    seeking a longer term extension and (ii) it is marketing
    the sale of The Shoppes at The Palazzo and The Grand Canal
    Shoppes. If GGP sells either of these properties, or it is
    unsuccessful at refinancing the loan against The Shoppes at The
    Palazzo or extending the maturity date thereof and its lenders
    foreclose on The Shoppes at The Palazzo, the above-described
    agreements could, as explained below, be adversely affected in
    ways that could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows if we are not
    able to maintain an acceptable working relationship with the new
    owner or owners.



Each of the above-described agreements with GGP could be
    adversely affected in ways that could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows if we do not maintain an acceptable working relationship
    with GGP or its successors. For example:

•

if the remaining unleased space at The Shoppes at The Palazzo
    are not rented, the purchase price we will ultimately be paid
    for The Shoppes at The Palazzo could be substantially reduced,
    and there would, at least for a certain period of time, be empty
    space within The Shoppes at The Palazzo; and

•

the cooperation agreement that governs the relationships between
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo and The Palazzo and The Grand Canal
    Shoppes and The Venetian Las Vegas requires that the owners
    cooperate in various ways and take various joint actions, which
    will be more difficult to accomplish, especially in a
    cost-effective manner, if the parties do not have an acceptable
    working relationship.

There could be similar material adverse consequences to us if
    GGP breaches any of its agreements to us, such as its agreement
    under the cooperation agreement to operate The Grand Canal
    Shoppes consistent with the standards of first-class restaurant
    and retail complexes and the overall Venetian theme, and its
    various obligations as our landlord under the leases described
    above. Although our agreements with GGP provide us with various
    remedies in the event of any breaches by GGP and include various
    dispute resolution procedures and mechanisms, these remedies,
    procedures and mechanisms may be inadequate to prevent a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows if breaches by GGP occur or if we do
    not maintain an acceptable working relationship with GGP.

We
    extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not
    be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit
    players.

We conduct our gaming activities on a credit basis as well as a
    cash basis, which credit is unsecured. Table games players
    typically are extended more credit than slot players, and
    high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than
    patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more
    volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss
    results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant
    positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a
    particular quarter.

Credit play at our Las Vegas properties is significant while at
    our Macao properties table games play is primarily cash play. We
    extend credit to those customers whose level of play and
    financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an
    extension of credit. For the year ended December 31, 2008,
    our table games drop at our Las Vegas properties was
    approximately 57.6% from credit-based guest wagering. These
    large receivables could have a significant impact on our results
    of operations if deemed uncollectible.

While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including
    what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” and
    judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws
    of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable
    in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the
    U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that
    enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although
    courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts
    directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may
    be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from
    U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign
    nations.

Risks
    Associated with Our International Operations

Conducting
    business in Macao and Singapore has certain political and
    economic risks which may effect the financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows of our Asian
    operations.

We currently own and operate the Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao
    and the Four Seasons Macao. We plan to operate additional
    hotels, casinos and meeting space on the Cotai Strip in Macao.
    We also plan to own and operate the Marina Bay Sands in
    Singapore. Accordingly, our business development plans,
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be
    materially and adversely effected by significant political,
    social and economic developments in Macao and Singapore, and by
    changes in policies of the governments or changes in laws and
    regulations or their interpretations. See
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 1 — Organization and
    Business of Company — Development



Financing Strategy.” Our operations in Macao are, and our
    operations in Singapore will be, also exposed to the risk of
    changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies
    based in those countries. Tax laws and regulations may also be
    subject to amendment or different interpretation and
    implementation, thereby adversely effecting our profitability
    after tax. Further, the percentage of our gross gaming revenues
    that we must contribute annually to the Macao authorities is
    subject to change in 2010. These changes may have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

As we expect a significant number of consumers to come to our
    Macao properties from mainland China, general economic
    conditions and policies in China could have a significant impact
    on our financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or
    changes of China’s current restrictions on travel and
    currency movements could disrupt the number of visitors from
    mainland China to our casinos in Macao as well as the amounts
    they are willing to spend in the casinos. See
    “— The number of visitors to Macao, particularly
    visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel to Macao may
    be disrupted.”

Current Macao laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming
    concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is
    little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and
    regulations. We believe that our organizational structure and
    operations are in compliance in all material respects with all
    applicable laws and regulations of Macao. These laws and
    regulations are complex and a court or an administrative or
    regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of
    these laws and regulations, or issue regulations, which differs
    from our interpretation and could have a material adverse effect
    on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
    We expect Marina Bay Sands to be the first gaming facility to
    open in Singapore following the government’s adoption of
    gaming legislation in 2005. Accordingly, the laws and
    regulations relating to gaming and their interpretations are
    untested.

In addition, our activities in Macao are, and our operations in
    Singapore will be, subject to administrative review and approval
    by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that we
    will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may
    materially affect our long-term business strategy and
    operations. Macao and Singapore laws permit redress to the
    courts with respect to administrative actions; however, such
    redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues.

We are
    constructing our remaining Cotai Strip projects on land for
    which we have not yet been granted concessions. If we do not
    obtain land concessions, we could forfeit all or a substantial
    part of our investment in these sites and would not be able to
    build or operate the planned facilities on these
    sites.

Land concessions in Macao generally have terms of 25 years,
    with automatic extensions at our option of 10 years
    thereafter in accordance with Macao law and there are common
    rates based on land use generally applied to determine the cost
    of these land concessions. We have not yet obtained land
    concessions from the Macao government for parcels 5, 6, 7 and 8
    on the Cotai Strip. We are currently in the process of
    negotiating with the Macao government to obtain the land
    concession for parcels 5 and 6, and will subsequently negotiate
    the land concession for parcels 7 and 8. If we do not obtain a
    land concession for parcels 5, 6, 7

and/or

8, we
    will not be able to open and operate the planned projects on
    these parcels and we could forfeit all or a substantial part of
    our $1.77 billion in capitalized construction costs related
    to our developments on parcels 5, 6, 7 and 8 as of
    December 31, 2008.

We are
    required to build and open our developments on parcel 3 of the
    Cotai Strip by August 2011. Unless we meet this deadline or
    obtain an extension, we may lose our right to continue to
    operate The Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao and any other
    facilities developed under the land concession.

The land concession we received from the Macao government covers
    parcels 1, 2 and 3, including the sites on which The Venetian
    Macao (parcel 1) and Four Seasons Macao (parcel 2) are
    located. Under the terms of the concession, we are required to
    complete development of parcel 3 by August 2011. We have
    commenced pre-construction on parcel 3 and intend to commence
    construction after necessary government approvals are obtained,
    regional and global economic conditions improve, future demand
    warrants it and additional financing is obtained. As a result,
    there is a significant risk that by the time we are able to
    commence construction, we will not be able to complete it by the
    deadline. See “— Risks Related to Our
    Business — Recent disruptions in the financial markets
    could adversely affect our ability to raise additional
    financing. If we are unable to raise additional capital in the
    near



term, we would need to consider suspending additional portions,
    if not all, of our remaining global development projects. Should
    general economic conditions not improve, if we are unable to
    obtain sufficient funding such that completion of our suspended
    projects is not probable, or should management decide to abandon
    certain projects, all or a portion of our investment to date on
    our suspended projects could be lost,”
    “— Risks Related to Our Business —
    There are significant risks associated with our planned
    construction projects, which could adversely affect our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from
    these planned facilities” and “— Conducting
    business in Macao and Singapore has certain political and
    economic risks which may effect the financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows of our Asian Operations.”
    Although we believe that we will be able to obtain an extension,
    if we are not able to complete the development of parcel 3 by
    the deadline or the portion of the land concession related to
    parcel 3 is not separated from the portions related to parcels 1
    and 2, the Macao government has the right to unilaterally
    terminate our land concession for parcels 1, 2 and 3 without
    compensation to us. The loss of our land concession would
    prohibit us from conducting gaming operations at The Venetian
    Macao and Four Seasons Macao, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

Our
    revised development plan may give certain of our hotel managers
    for our Cotai Strip developments the right to terminate their
    agreements with us.

We have entered into management agreements with Starwood and
    Shangri-La  to manage hotels and serviced luxury apartment
    hotel units located on our Cotai Strip parcels 5 and 6. Under
    our revised development plan, construction of these hotels and
    serviced luxury apartment hotel units has been suspended until
    project-level financing is obtained and conditions in the
    capital markets and general economic conditions improve. Our
    management agreements with Starwood and Shangri-La impose
    certain construction and opening obligations and deadlines on
    us, and the delays and potential delays described above create a
    significant risk that we will fail to meet some or all of these
    obligations and deadlines. We are currently negotiating a
    standstill agreement with Starwood, which we expect to be
    finalized in the first quarter of 2009. If negotiations are
    unsuccessful or we do not obtain a similar agreement with
    Shangri-La, Starwood and Shangri-La would have the right to
    terminate their agreements with us, which would result in our
    having to find new managers and brands for the above-described
    projects, and which could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

The
    Macao government can terminate our subconcession under certain
    circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The Macao government has the right, after consultation with
    Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate our subconcession in the event
    of VML’s serious non-compliance with its basic obligations
    under the subconcession and applicable Macao laws. Upon
    termination of our subconcession, our casinos and gaming-related
    equipment would be automatically transferred to the Macao
    government without compensation to us and we would cease to
    generate any revenues from these operations. The loss of our
    subconcession would prohibit us from conducting gaming
    operations in Macao, which could have a material adverse effect
    on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We
    will stop generating any revenues from our Macao gaming
    operations if we cannot secure an extension of our subconcession
    in 2022 or if the Macao government exercises its redemption
    right.

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022.
    Unless our subconcession is extended, on that date, all of our
    casinos and gaming-related equipment will be automatically
    transferred to the Macao government without compensation to us
    and we will cease to generate any revenues from these
    operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the Macao
    government may redeem the subconcession agreement by providing
    us at least one year prior notice. In the event the Macao
    government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to
    fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation
    or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue
    generated during the tax year prior to the redemption. We cannot
    assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our
    subconcession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. We
    also cannot assure you that if our subconcession is redeemed,
    the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the
    loss of future revenues.



The
    number of visitors to Macao, particularly visitors from mainland
    China, may decline or travel to Macao may be
    disrupted.

Our VIP and mass market gaming patrons typically come from
    nearby destinations in Asia, including mainland China, Hong
    Kong, South Korea and Japan. Increasingly, a significant number
    of gaming patrons come to our casinos from mainland China.

The large investments that we and our competitors are making in
    the construction of new hotels and casinos, are based, in part,
    on projections regarding the number of visitors, and in
    particular, visitors from mainland China. As a result, general
    economic conditions and policies in China could have a
    significant impact on our financial prospects. Any slowdown in
    economic growth or changes of China’s current restrictions
    on travel and currency movements could disrupt the number of
    visitors from mainland China to our casinos in Macao as well as
    the amounts they are willing to spend in the casinos.

In early October 2008, news media reported that certain
    additional proposed restrictions were imposed on exit visa
    applicants for travel to Macao by Chinese authorities. Under the
    measures, residents of mainland China are restricted to making
    only one visit every two months instead of one visit per month.
    In addition, residents of mainland China visiting Hong Kong may
    no longer visit Macao on the same visa, but instead must obtain
    a separate visa for any visit to Macao. These developments have,
    and any future policy developments that may be implemented may
    have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to Macao
    from mainland China, which could adversely impact tourism and
    the gaming industry in Macao.

Our
    Macao operations face intense competition, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The hotel, resort and casino businesses are highly competitive.
    Our Macao operations currently compete with numerous other
    casinos located in Macao. In addition, we expect competition to
    increase in the near future from local and foreign casino
    operators. Our Macao operations will also compete to some extent
    with casinos located elsewhere in Asia, such as Malaysia’s
    Genting Highlands, as well as gaming venues in Australia, New
    Zealand and elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas. In
    addition, certain countries have legalized, and others may in
    the future legalize, casino gaming, including Hong Kong, Japan,
    Taiwan and Thailand. The proliferation of gaming venues in
    Southeast Asia could significantly and adversely effect our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

The
    Macao and Singapore governments could grant additional rights to
    conduct gaming in the future, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

We hold a subconcession under one of only three gaming
    concessions authorized by the Macao government to operate
    casinos in Macao. The Macao government permits existing
    concessionaires to grant subconcessions; however, the Macao
    government has undertaken contractually not to grant additional
    gaming concessions until April 1, 2009. If the Macao
    government were to allow additional competitors to operate in
    Macao through the grant of additional concessions or
    subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

We hold one of two licenses granted by the Singapore government
    to develop an integrated resort, including a casino. Under the
    Exclusivity Period, which began on March 1, 2007, the
    Singapore government will not license another casino for at
    least ten years. If the Singapore government were to license
    additional casinos, we would face additional competition which
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

We may
    not be able to attract and retain professional staff necessary
    for our existing and future properties in Macao and our
    operations in Singapore.

Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract,
    retain, train, manage and motivate skilled employees. In
    addition, the Macao government requires us to only hire Macao
    residents as dealers in our casinos.



There is significant competition in Macao for employees with the
    skills required to perform the services we offer and competition
    for these individuals is likely to increase as we open our
    remaining Cotai Strip developments and as other competitors
    expand their operations. We expect competition in Singapore for
    employees with the skills we require as we develop and open the
    Marina Bay Sands. There can be no assurance that a sufficient
    number of skilled employees will continue to be available, or
    that we will be successful in training, retaining and motivating
    current or future employees. If we are unable to attract, retain
    and train skilled employees, our ability to adequately manage
    and staff our existing and planned casino and resort properties
    in Macao and Singapore could be impaired, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

We are
    dependent upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion
    of our gaming revenues in Macao.

Junket operators, who promote gaming and draw high-roller
    customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion
    of our gaming revenues in Macao. With the rise in gaming in
    Macao, the competition for relationships with junket operators
    has increased. While we are undertaking initiatives to
    strengthen our relationships with our current junket operators,
    there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain, or
    grow, our relationships with junket operators. If we are unable
    to maintain or grow our relationships with junket operators, our
    ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered and we may
    seek alternative ways to develop relationships with high-roller
    customers.

In addition, the quality of junket operators is important to our
    reputation and our ability to continue to operate in compliance
    with our gaming licenses. While we strive for excellence in our
    associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that
    the junket operators with whom we are associated will meet the
    high standards we insist upon. If a junket operator falls below
    our standards, we may suffer reputational harm, as well as
    worsening relationships with, and possibly sanctions from,
    gaming regulators with authority over our operations.

Our
    business could be adversely affected by the limitations of the
    pataca exchange markets and restrictions on the export of the
    renminbi.

Our revenues in Macao are denominated in patacas, the legal
    currency of Macao, and Hong Kong dollars. Although currently
    permitted, we cannot assure you that patacas will continue to be
    freely exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Also, because the
    currency market for patacas is relatively small and undeveloped,
    our ability to convert large amounts of patacas into
    U.S. dollars over a relatively short period may be limited.
    As a result, we may experience difficulty in converting patacas
    into U.S. dollars.

We are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in renminbi,
    the legal currency of China. There are currently restrictions on
    the export of the renminbi outside of mainland China, including
    to Macao. Restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede
    the flow of gaming customers from mainland China to Macao,
    inhibit the growth of gaming in Macao and negatively impact our
    gaming operations.

On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced
    that the renminbi will no longer be pegged to the
    U.S. dollar, but will be allowed to float in a band (and,
    to a limited extent, increase in value) against a basket of
    foreign currencies. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong
    dollar. Certain Asian countries have publicly asserted their
    desire to eliminate the peg of the Hong Kong dollar to the
    U.S. dollar. As a result, we cannot assure you that the
    Hong Kong dollar and the Macao pataca will continue to be pegged
    to the U.S. dollar or that the current peg rate for these
    currencies will remain at the same level. The floating of the
    renminbi and possible changes to the peg of the Hong Kong dollar
    may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these
    currencies. Any change in such exchange rates could have a
    material adverse effect on our operations and on our ability to
    make payments on certain of our debt instruments. We do not
    currently hedge for foreign currency risk.

Certain
    Nevada gaming laws apply to our planned gaming activities and
    associations in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to
    operate.

Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to our gaming activities
    and associations in jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada.
    We are required to comply with certain reporting requirements
    concerning our proposed gaming



activities and associations occurring outside the State of
    Nevada, including Macao, Singapore and other jurisdictions. We
    will also be subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada
    Commission if we:

•

knowingly violate any laws of the foreign jurisdiction
    pertaining to the foreign gaming operation;

•

fail to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with
    the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming
    operations;

•

engage in any activity or enter into any association that is
    unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the
    control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect
    discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in
    Nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of Nevada;

•

engage in any activity or enter into any association that
    interferes with the ability of the State of Nevada to collect
    gaming taxes and fees; or

•

employ, contract with or associate with any person in the
    foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a
    finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal
    unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at
    gambling.

In addition, if the Nevada Board determines that one of our
    actual or intended activities or associations in a foreign
    gaming operation may violate one or more of the foregoing, we
    can be required to file an application with the Nevada
    Commission for a finding of suitability of such activity or
    association. If the Nevada Commission finds that the activity or
    association in the foreign gaming operation is unsuitable or
    prohibited, we will either be required to terminate the activity
    or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the
    activity or association. Consequently, should the Nevada
    Commission find that our gaming activities or associations in
    Macao or certain other jurisdictions where we operate are
    unsuitable, we may be prohibited from undertaking our planned
    gaming activities or associations in those jurisdictions.

The Macao gaming authorities exercise similar powers for
    purposes of assessing suitability in relation to our activities
    in jurisdictions outside of Macao.

We may
    not be able to monetize some of our real estate
    assets.

Part of our business strategy in Macao relies upon our ability
    to profitably operate, sell

and/or

grant
    rights of use over certain of our real estate assets once
    developed, including retail malls and apartment hotels, and to
    use the proceeds of these operations and sales to refinance, or
    repay, in part our construction loans for these assets, as well
    as to fund existing and future development both in Macao and
    elsewhere. Our ability to monetize these assets will be subject
    to market conditions, applicable legislation, the receipt of
    necessary government approvals and other factors. If we are
    unable to profitably operate

and/or

monetize these real estate assets, we will have to seek
    alternative sources of capital to refinance in part our
    construction loans and for other investment capital. These
    alternative sources of capital may not be available on
    commercially reasonable terms or at all.

VML
    may have financial and other obligations to foreign workers
    managed by its contractors under government labor
    quotas.

The Macao government has granted VML a quota to permit it to
    hire foreign workers. VML has effectively assigned the
    management of this quota to its contractors for the construction
    of The Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao and other Cotai Strip
    projects. VML, however, remains ultimately liable for all
    employer obligations relating to these employees, including for
    payment of wages and taxes and compliance with labor and
    workers’ compensation laws. VML requires each contractor to
    whom it has assigned the management of part of its labor quota
    to indemnify VML for any costs or liabilities VML incurs as a
    result of such contractor’s failure to fulfill employer
    obligations. VML’s agreements with its contractors also
    contain provisions that permit it to retain some payments for up
    to one year after the contractors complete work on the projects.
    We cannot assure you that VML’s contractors will fulfill
    their obligations to employees hired under the labor quotas or
    to VML under the indemnification agreements, or that the amount
    of any indemnification will be sufficient to pay for any
    obligations VML may owe to employees managed by contractors
    under VML’s quotas. Until we make final payments to our
    contractors, we have offset rights to collect



amounts they may owe us, including amounts owed under the
    indemnities relating to employer obligations. After we have made
    the final payments, it may be more difficult for us to enforce
    any unpaid indemnity obligations.

The
    transportation infrastructure in Macao may need to be expanded
    to meet increased visitation in Macao.

Macao is in the process of expanding its transportation
    infrastructure to service the increased number of visitors to
    Macao. If the planned expansions of transportation facilities to
    and from Macao are delayed or not completed, and Macao’s
    transportation infrastructure is insufficient to meet the
    demands of an increased volume of visitors to Macao, the
    desirability of Macao as a gaming and tourist destination, as
    well as the results of operations of our Macao properties, could
    be negatively impacted.

We
    operate a passenger ferry service between Macao and Hong Kong
    under a concession granted by the Macao government. The loss of
    the ferry concession could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

We operate a passenger ferry service between the Cotai Strip in
    Macao and Hong Kong under a concession granted by the Macao
    government. Another transportation company claims that the grant
    of the ferry service was improper and has sued the Macao
    government seeking a review of the government’s decision.
    See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings —
    Litigation Relating to Our Macao Operations.” Our inability
    to operate our ferry service could result in a significant loss
    of visitors to our Cotai Strip properties, including The
    Venetian Macao, and could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We are
    currently not required to pay corporate income taxes on our
    casino gaming operations in Macao. This tax exemption expires at
    the end of 2013.

We have had the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in Macao,
    which exempts us from paying corporate income tax on profits
    generated by the operation of casino games. We will continue to
    benefit from this tax exemption through the end of 2013. We
    cannot assure you that this tax exemption will be extended
    beyond the expiration date and we do not expect this tax
    exemption to apply to our non-gaming activities.

Macao
    is susceptible to severe typhoons that may disrupt
    operations.

Macao is susceptible to severe typhoons. Macao consists of a
    peninsula and two islands off the coast of mainland China. On
    some occasions, typhoons have caused a considerable amount of
    damage to Macao’s infrastructure and economy. In the event
    of a major typhoon or other natural disaster in Macao, our
    business may be severely disrupted and our results of operations
    could be adversely effected. Although we have insurance coverage
    with respect to these events, we cannot assure you that our
    coverage will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against all
    direct and indirect costs, including loss of business, that
    could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete
    destruction of, our Macao properties or other damage to the
    infrastructure or economy of Macao.

Our
    Singapore concession can be terminated under certain
    circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The Development Agreement between MBS and the STB contains
    events of default which could permit the STB to terminate the
    agreement without compensation to us. If the Development
    Agreement is terminated, we could lose our right to open and
    operate the Marina Bay Sands and our investment in Marina Bay
    Sands could be lost.

For a more complete description of the Singapore gaming
    regulatory requirements applicable to beneficial owners of our
    voting securities, see “Item 1 —
    Business — Regulation and Licensing —
    Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board.”



An
    outbreak of highly infectious disease could adversely affect the
    number of visitors to our facilities and disrupt our operations,
    resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows.

In 2003, Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, Singapore and certain other
    regions experienced an outbreak of a highly contagious form of
    atypical pneumonia known as severe acute respiratory syndrome
    (“SARS”). As a result of the outbreak, there was a
    decrease in travel to and from, and economic activity in,
    affected regions, including Macao. In addition, there have been
    fears concerning the spread of an “avian flu” in Asia.
    Potential future outbreaks of SARS, avian flu or other highly
    infectious diseases may adversely affect the number of visitors
    to our operating properties and our other properties we are
    currently developing. Furthermore, an outbreak might disrupt our
    ability to adequately staff our business and could generally
    disrupt our operations. If any of our customers or employees is
    suspected of having contracted certain highly contagious
    diseases, we may be required to quarantine these customers or
    employees or the affected areas of our facilities and
    temporarily suspend part or all of our operations at affected
    facilities. Any new outbreak of such a highly infectious disease
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

ITEM 1B. —

UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. —

PROPERTIES

We own an approximately

63-acre

parcel of land on which our Las Vegas Operating Properties are
    located and an approximately

19-acre

parcel of land located to the east of the

63-acre

parcel. We own these parcels of land in fee simple, subject to
    certain easements, encroachments and other non-monetary
    encumbrances. LVSLLC’s senior secured credit facility is,
    subject to certain exceptions, collateralized by a first
    priority security interest (subject to permitted liens) in
    substantially all of LVSLLC’s property.

We have received concessions from the Macao government to build
    on a

six-acre

land site for the Sands Macao and parcels 1, 2 and 3 on the
    Cotai Strip, including the sites on which The Venetian Macao
    (parcel 1) and Four Seasons Macao (parcel 2) are
    located. We do not own these land sites in Macao; however, the
    land concessions grant us exclusive use of the land. As
    specified in the land concessions, we are required to pay
    premiums, which are either payable over four years or are due
    upon the completion of the corresponding integrated resort, as
    well as annual rent for the term of the land concession, which
    may be revised every five years by the Macao government. In
    October 2008, the Macao government amended our land concession
    to separate the retail and hotel portions of the Four Seasons
    Macao parcel and allowed us to subdivide the parcel into four
    separate components, consisting of retail, hotel/casino, Four
    Seasons Apartments and parking areas. In consideration for the
    amendment, we paid an additional land premium of approximately
    $17.8 million and will pay adjusted annual rent over the
    remaining term of the concession, which increased slightly due
    to the revised allocation of parcel use. See
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 6 — Leasehold
    Interests in Land, Net” for more information on our payment
    obligation under these land concessions.

We do not yet have all the necessary Macao government approvals
    that we will need in order to develop our remaining Cotai Strip
    developments. Although, we have commenced construction or
    pre-construction for our Cotai Strip projects on parcels 5, 6, 7
    and 8, we have not yet obtained a land concession for these
    parcels from the Macao government, which holds title to the
    land. Land concessions in Macao generally have terms of
    25 years, with automatic extensions at our option of
    10 years thereafter in accordance with Macao law and there
    are common rates based on land use generally applied to
    determine the cost of these land concessions. We are currently
    in the process of negotiating with the Macao government to
    obtain the land concession, which will require us to pay certain
    premiums and rent, for parcels 5 and 6, and we will subsequently
    negotiate the land concession for parcels 7 and 8. We believe we
    will be successful in obtaining the land concessions; however,
    in the event we are unable to obtain concessions for the land
    underlying parcels 5, 6, 7

and/or

8, we
    could lose all or a substantial part of our $1.77 billion
    in capitalized costs related to our developments on parcels 5,
    6, 7 and 8 as of December 31, 2008.

Under our land concession for parcels 1, 2 and 3, we are
    required to complete the development of parcel 3 by August 2011.
    We believe that if we are not able to complete the development
    of parcel 3 by the deadline, we will be



able to obtain an extension; however, no assurances can be given
    that an extension will be granted by the Macao government. If we
    are unable to meet the August 2011 deadline and that deadline is
    not extended or the portion of the land concession related to
    parcel 3 is not separated from the portions related to parcels 1
    and 2, we could lose this land concession, which would prohibit
    us from continuing to operate The Venetian Macao, Four Seasons
    Macao or any other facilities developed under the land
    concession, and we could forfeit all or a substantial portion of
    our $3.53 billion in capitalized costs related to our
    developments on parcels 1, 2 and 3 as of December 31, 2008.

Under the Development Agreement with the STB to build and
    operate the Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, we paid SGD
    1.2 billion (approximately $834.0 million at exchange
    rates in effect on December 31, 2008) in premium
    payments for the

60-year

lease of the land on which the integrated resort is being
    developed plus an additional SGD 105.6 million
    (approximately $73.4 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008) for various taxes and other fees.
    Of this combined amount, $859.3 million has been
    capitalized on the consolidated balance sheet as leasehold
    interest in land with $33.8 million amortized as of
    December 31, 2008.

The Sands Bethlehem development is located on the approximately

124-acre

site of the historic Bethlehem Steel Works in Bethlehem,
    Pennsylvania, which is about 70 miles from midtown
    Manhattan, New York. In September 2008, our joint venture
    partner, Bethworks Now, contributed the land on which Sands
    Bethlehem is being developed to Sands Bethworks Gaming and Sands
    Bethworks Retail, a portion of which was contributed through a
    condominium form of ownership.

In March 2004, we entered into a long-term lease with a third
    party for the airspace over which a portion of The Shoppes at
    The Palazzo was constructed (the “Leased Airspace”).
    We acquired fee title from the same third party to the airspace
    above the Leased Airspace (the “Acquired Airspace”) in
    order to build the St. Regis Residences in January 2008. In
    February 2008, in connection with the sale of The Shoppes at The
    Palazzo, GGP acquired control of the Leased Airspace. We
    continue to retain fee title to the Acquired Airspace in order
    to resume building the St. Regis Residences when market
    conditions improve.

ITEM 3. —

LEGAL
    PROCEEDINGS

In addition to the matters described below, we are party to
    various legal matters and claims arising in the ordinary course
    of business. Management has made certain estimates for potential
    litigation costs based upon consultation with legal counsel.
    Actual results could differ from these estimates; however, in
    the opinion of management, such litigation and claims will not
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

The
    Palazzo Construction Litigation

Lido Casino Resort, LLC (“Lido”), formerly a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and now merged into VCR,
    and its construction manager, Taylor International Corp.
    (“Taylor”), filed suit in March 2006 in the United
    States District Court for the District of Nevada (the
    “District Court”) against Malcolm Drilling Company,
    Inc. (“Malcolm”), the contractor on The Palazzo
    project responsible for completing certain foundation work (the
    “District Court Case”). Lido and Taylor claimed in the
    District Court Case that Malcolm was in default of its contract
    for performing defective work, failing to correct defective
    work, failing to complete its work and causing delay to the
    project. Malcolm responded by filing a Notice of a Lien with the
    Clerk of Clark County, Nevada in March 2006 in the amount of
    approximately $19.0 million (the “Lien”). In
    April 2006, Lido and Taylor moved in the District Court Case to
    strike or, in the alternative, to reduce the amount of, the
    Lien, claiming, among other things, that the Lien was excessive
    for including claims for disruption and delay, which Lido and
    Taylor claim are not lienable under Nevada law (the “Lien
    Motion”). Malcolm responded in April 2006 by filing a
    complaint against Lido and Taylor in District Court of Clark
    County, Nevada seeking to foreclose on the Lien against Taylor,
    claiming breach of contract, a cardinal change in the underlying
    contract, unjust enrichment against Lido and Taylor and bad
    faith and fraud against Taylor (the “State Court
    Case”), and simultaneously filed a motion in the District
    Court Case, seeking to dismiss the District Court Case on
    abstention grounds (the “Abstention Motion”). In
    response, in June 2006, Lido filed a motion to dismiss the State
    Court Case based on the principle of the “prior
    pending” District Court Case (the “Motion to
    Dismiss”). In June 2006, the Abstention Motion was granted
    in part by the United States District Court, the District Court
    Case was stayed pending the outcome of the Motion to Dismiss in
    the State Court



Case and the Lien Motion was denied without prejudice. In
    January 2008, the parties agreed to the dismissal of the
    District Court Case without prejudice. Prior to agreeing on that
    dismissal, Lido and Malcolm entered into a stipulation under
    which Lido withdrew the Motion to Dismiss, and in July 2006
    filed a replacement lien motion in the State Court Case. The
    lien motion in the State Court Case was denied in August 2006
    and Lido and Taylor filed a permitted interlocutory notice of
    appeal to the Supreme Court of Nevada in September 2006. In
    April 2007, Malcolm filed an Amended Notice of Lien with the
    Clerk of Clark County, Nevada in the amount of approximately
    $16.7 million plus interest, costs and attorney’s
    fees. In August 2007, Malcolm filed a motion for partial summary
    judgment, seeking the dismissal of the counterclaim filed in the
    State Court Case by Lido to the extent the claim sought lost
    profits. After argument, the motion for partial summary judgment
    was denied without prejudice in October 2007, and a conforming
    order was entered in December 2007. Argument on the appeal of
    the denial of the lien motion in the State Court was heard by
    the Supreme Court in March 2008. In January 2008, Malcolm filed
    a series of motions and again sought summary judgment on the
    counterclaim filed in the State Court Case and VCR, as successor
    in interest to Lido, and Taylor sought summary judgment on
    certain of Malcolm’s claims. The motions for summary
    judgment were all denied without prejudice except that claims of
    Malcolm totaling approximately $675,000 were dismissed. In May
    2008, the Supreme Court vacated the order denying the motion to
    strike the mechanic’s lien and remanded to the trial court
    for a decision on the lien during the upcoming trial. The case
    is currently in trial. In November 2008, the Court denied a
    series of motions filed by Lido and Taylor seeking to dismiss a
    number of Malcolm’s claims except that the bad faith and
    fraudulent concealment claims were dismissed. Management has
    determined that based on proceedings to date, an adverse outcome
    is not probable. VCR, as successor in interest to Lido, intends
    to defend itself against the claims pending in the State Court
    Case.

Litigation
    Relating to Macao Operations

On October 15, 2004, Richard Suen and Round Square Company
    Limited filed an action against LVSC, LVSI, Sheldon G. Adelson
    and William P. Weidner in the District Court of Clark County,
    Nevada, asserting a breach of an alleged agreement to pay a
    success fee of $5.0 million and 2.0% of the net profit from
    the Company’s Macao resort operations to the plaintiffs as
    well as other related claims. In March 2005, LVSC was dismissed
    as a party without prejudice based on a stipulation to do so
    between the parties. On May 17, 2005, the plaintiffs filed
    their first amended complaint. On February 2, 2006,
    defendants filed a motion for partial summary judgment with
    respect to plaintiffs’ fraud claims against all the
    defendants. On March 16, 2006, an order was filed by the
    court granting defendants’ motion for partial summary
    judgment. Pursuant to the order filed March 16, 2006,
    plaintiffs’ fraud claims set forth in the first amended
    complaint were dismissed with prejudice as against all
    defendants. The order also dismissed with prejudice the first
    amended complaint against defendants Sheldon G. Adelson and
    William P. Weidner. On May 24, 2008, the jury returned a
    verdict for the plaintiffs in the amount of $43.8 million.
    On June 30, 2008, a judgment was entered in this matter in
    the amount of $58.6 million (including pre-judgment
    interest). The Company has begun the appeals process, including
    its filings on July 15, 2008, with the trial court of a
    motion for judgment as a matter of law or in the alternative, a
    new trial and a motion to strike, alter

and/or

amend
    the judgment. The grounds for these motions include
    (1) insufficient evidence that Suen conferred a benefit on
    LVSI, (2) the improper admission of testimony, (3) the
    court’s refusal to give jury instructions that the law
    presumes that government officials have performed their duties
    regularly, and that the law has been obeyed, and (4) jury
    instructions that improperly permitted the plaintiff to recover
    for the services of others. These motions were heard on
    December 8, 2008 and were denied by the court. The Company
    intends to continue to vigorously pursue available appeals. The
    Company believes that it has valid bases in law and fact to
    overturn or appeal the verdict. As a result, the Company
    believes that the likelihood that the amount of the judgment
    will be affirmed is not probable, and, accordingly, that the
    amount of any loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
    Because the Company believes that this potential loss is not
    probable or estimable, it has not recorded any reserves or
    contingencies related to this legal matter. In the event that
    the Company’s assumptions used to evaluate this matter as
    neither probable nor estimable change in future periods, it may
    be required to record a liability for an adverse outcome.

On January 26, 2006, Clive Basset Jones, Darryl Steven
    Turok (a/k/a Dax Turok) and Cheong Jose Vai Chi

(a/k/a

Cliff
    Cheong), filed an action against LVSC, LVSLLC, Venetian Venture
    Development, LLC (“Venetian Venture Development”) and
    various unspecified individuals and companies in the District
    Court of Clark County, Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of
    an agreement to pay a success fee in an amount equal to 5% of
    the ownership interest in the entity that owns and operates the
    Macao gaming subconcession as well as other related claims. In



April 2006, LVSC was dismissed as a party without prejudice
    based on a stipulation to do so between the parties. Discovery
    has concluded in this matter and the case is currently set for
    trial in June 2009. Management believes that the
    plaintiff’s case against the Company is without merit. The
    Company intends to defend this matter vigorously.

On February 5, 2007, Asian American Entertainment
    Corporation, Limited (“AAEC”) filed an action against
    LVSI, VCR, Venetian Venture Development, William P. Weidner and
    David Friedman in the United States District Court for the
    District of Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of contract by
    LVSI, VCR and Venetian Venture Development of an agreement under
    which AAEC would work to obtain a gaming license in Macao and,
    if successful, AAEC would jointly operate a casino, hotel and
    related facilities in Macao with Venetian Venture Development
    and Venetian Venture Development would receive fees and a
    minority equity interest in the venture and breach of fiduciary
    duties by all of the defendants. The plaintiffs have requested
    an unspecified amount of actual, compensatory and punitive
    damages, and disgorgement of profits related to our Macao gaming
    license. The Company filed a motion to dismiss on July 11,
    2007. On August 1, 2007, the Court granted defendants’
    motion to dismiss the complaint against all defendants without
    prejudice. The plaintiffs have appealed this decision and
    arguments on the appeal are scheduled for March 2009. Management
    believes that the plaintiff’s case against the Company is
    without merit. The Company intends to defend this matter
    vigorously.

On January 2, 2008, Hong Kong ferry operator Norte Oeste
    Expresso Ltd. (“Northwest Express”) filed an action
    against the Chief Executive of the Macao Special Administrative
    Region of the People’s Republic of China, with the
    Company’s indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Cotai Waterjets
    (Macau) Limited (“Cotai Waterjets”), as an interested
    party, challenging the award of a ferry concession to Cotai
    Waterjets to operate a ferry service between Hong Kong and
    Macao. The basis of the legal challenge is that under Macao law,
    all concessions related to the provision of a public service
    must be awarded through a public tender process. On
    February 19, 2009, the Court of Second Instance in Macao
    held that it was unlawful for the Macao government to have
    granted the ferry concession to Cotai Waterjets without engaging
    in a public tender process, and that the ferry concession award
    to Cotai Waterjets was void. The Company relied on the advice of
    counsel in obtaining the ferry concession and believes that it
    has complied with all applicable laws, procedures and Macao
    practice. The Company believes that all concessions to operate
    ferries to and from Macao were awarded in the same fashion as
    the concession awarded to Cotai Waterjets. The Company intends
    to appeal the decision to the Court of Final Appeal in Macao.
    The Company believes that the Macao government is likely to
    appeal the decision as well. The Company has been advised by
    counsel that the appeals process could take several months and
    will cooperate with the Macao government during this period to
    resolve this matter. The Company expects to continue to operate
    its ferry service until a decision on the appeal is rendered or
    the matter is otherwise resolved. If the decision is upheld by
    the Court of Final Appeal, the Cotai Waterjets ferry concession
    will be void, absent other action by the Macao government. If
    the Company is unable to continue to operate its ferry service,
    it will need to develop alternative means of attracting and
    transporting visitors to its Cotai Strip properties. If the
    Company is unable to do so, a resulting significant loss of
    visitors to its Cotai Strip properties could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

Stockholder
    Derivative Litigation

On November 26, 2008, Shmyer Breuer and David Barfield
    filed a shareholder derivative action (the “Breuer
    action”) on behalf of the Company in the District Court of
    Clark County, Nevada, against Sheldon G. Adelson, Irwin Chafetz,
    Charles D. Forman, George P. Koo, Michael A. Leven, James L.
    Purcell, Irwin A. Siegel and William P. Weidner, the
    current members of the Board of Directors. The complaint
    alleges, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duties in
    connection with (a) the Company’s ongoing construction
    and development projects and (b) the Company’s
    securing debt and equity financing during 2008. A motion to
    dismiss the complaint was filed in January 2009 on behalf of all
    of the Directors and the Company.

On January 16, 2009, Caleb Hartmann filed a shareholder
    derivative action (the “Hartmann action”) on behalf of
    the Company in the District Court of Clark County, Nevada,
    against Messrs. Adelson, Chafetz, Forman, Koo, Leven,
    Purcell, Siegel and Weidner, the current members of the Board of
    Directors. The complaint raises the same claims as in the Breuer
    action. The Hartmann action has been consolidated with the
    Breuer action.



On February 6, 2009, Frank Fosbre, Jr, filed a shareholder
    derivative action (the “Fosbre action”) on behalf of
    the Company in the District Court of Clark County, Nevada,
    against Messrs. Adelson, Chafetz, Forman, Koo, Leven,
    Purcell, Siegel, Weidner and Andrew Heyer, a former member of
    the Board of Directors. The complaint raises substantially the
    same claims as in the Breuer action and the Hartmann action. The
    Fosbre action is being consolidated with the Breuer action.

The plaintiffs in the consolidated Breuer, Hartmann and Fosbre
    actions have advised the Company that they will file a single
    amended and consolidated complaint in March 2009. The Company
    and the other defendants anticipate bringing a motion to dismiss
    that complaint.

China
    Matters

The State Administration of Foreign Exchange in China
    (“SAFE”) regulates foreign currency exchange
    transactions and other business dealings in China. SAFE has made
    inquiries and requested and obtained documents relating to
    certain payments made by the Company’s wholly-owned foreign
    enterprises (“WOFEs”) to counterparties and other
    vendors in China. These WOFEs were established to conduct
    non-gaming marketing activities in China and to create goodwill
    in China and Macao for the Company’s operations in Macao.
    The Company is fully cooperating with these pending inquiries.
    The Company does not believe that the resolution of these
    pending inquiries will have a material adverse effect on its
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

ITEM 4. —

SUBMISSION
    OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

On September 30, 2008, we sold $475.0 million
    aggregate principal amount of our 6.5% convertible senior notes
    due 2013 (the “Convertible Senior Notes”) to
    Dr. Miriam Adelson, the wife of Sheldon G. Adelson, our
    Principal Stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer.
    Under an Investor Rights Agreement (the “Investor Rights
    Agreement”) entered into in connection with the sale of the
    Convertible Senior Notes, we granted to Dr. Adelson,
    Mr. Adelson and certain trusts for the benefit of the
    Adelson family pre-emptive rights, subject to certain
    exceptions, with respect to any future proposed issuance or sale
    by the Company of equity interests (including securities
    convertible or exchangeable into equity interests in the
    Company).

On November 10, 2008, we entered into a Note Conversion and
    Securities Purchase Agreement with Dr. Adelson, pursuant to
    which (i) we agreed to sell 5,250,000 shares of our
    10% Series A Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (the
    “Preferred Stock”) and warrants to initially purchase
    up to 87,500,175 shares of our common stock, at an exercise
    price of $6.00 per share to Dr. Adelson for an aggregate
    purchase price of $525.0 million in cash and
    (ii) Dr. Adelson agreed to convert the Convertible
    Senior Notes into 86,363,636 shares of our common stock.
    These transactions were completed on November 14, 2008.

On November 14, 2008, Mr. Adelson and certain family
    trusts for the benefit of Mr. Adelson and his family, which
    together held 244,755,626 shares, or approximately 68.9% of
    outstanding shares of our common stock as of November 10,
    2008 (the record date for the written consent), delivered to the
    Company an executed written consent of stockholders approving
    the exercise of the warrants issued to Dr. Adelson, the
    issuance of the number of shares of common stock required to be
    issued in connection with the exercise of the warrants issued to
    Dr. Adelson and the pre-emptive rights granted pursuant to
    the Investor Rights Agreement, and initially reserving an
    aggregate of 87,500,175 shares of common stock for issuance
    or delivery pursuant to exercise of the warrants under the terms
    of the warrant agreement. This action was taken solely for the
    purposes of satisfying requirements of the NYSE that require an
    issuer of listed securities to obtain the consent of its
    stockholders prior to issuing securities to affiliates if the
    number of shares of common stock into which the securities may
    be convertible or exercisable exceeds one percent of the number
    of shares of common stock outstanding before the issuance.
    Pursuant to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934, the stockholder consent became effective on
    February 5, 2009, 20 calendar days after we mailed an
    information statement on Schedule 14C to our stockholders
    to provide them with notice of the consent. See
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 8 — Long-Term Debt
    — Corporate and U.S. Related Debt —
    Convertible Senior Notes” and “Item 8 —
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements —
    Note 9 — Stockholders’ Equity.”



PART II

ITEM 5. —

MARKET
    FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
    AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Market
    Information

The Company’s common stock trades on the NYSE under the
    symbol “LVS.” The following table sets forth the high
    and low sales prices for the common stock on the NYSE for the
    fiscal quarter indicated.

High

Low


First Quarter

$

109.45

$

81.00

Second Quarter

$

91.93

$

71.24

Third Quarter

$

142.75

$

75.56

Fourth Quarter

$

148.76

$

102.50


First Quarter

$

105.38

$

70.00

Second Quarter

$

83.13

$

45.30

Third Quarter

$

59.17

$

30.56

Fourth Quarter

$

37.00

$

2.89


First Quarter (through February 19, 2009)

$

9.15

$

2.74

As of February 19, 2009, there were 652,831,025 shares
    of our common stock issued and outstanding that were held by 376
    stockholders of record.

Dividends

We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common stock
    since our formation in August 2004 and we do not expect to pay
    dividends on our common stock in the future. We expect to retain
    our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and
    expansion of our business.

In November 2008, we issued 10,446,300 shares of our
    Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of
    approximately 174,105,348 shares of our common stock.
    Dividends on the Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date of
    original issuance and are payable, when and if declared, in cash
    on a quarterly basis, commencing February 15, 2009. On
    February 5, 2009, our Board of Directors declared a
    dividend of $2.50 per preferred share to the holders of the
    Preferred Stock of record on that date for a total amount of
    $24.5 million, which was paid on February 17, 2009,
    the first business day following the February 15, 2009,
    payment date.

Our Board of Directors will determine whether to pay dividends
    on our common and preferred stock in the future based on
    conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial
    condition, available cash and capital requirements, as well as
    economic and other conditions deemed relevant. Our ability to
    declare and pay such dividends is subject to the requirements of
    Nevada law. In addition, we are a parent company with limited
    business operations of our own. Accordingly, our primary sources
    of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our
    ownership interest in our subsidiaries that are derived from the
    earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties.

Our subsidiaries’ long-term debt arrangements place
    material restrictions on their ability to pay cash dividends to
    the Company. This will restrict our ability to pay cash
    dividends other than from cash on hand. See
    “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Restrictions on Distributions” and
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt.”

Recent
    Sales of Unregistered Securities

There have not been any sales by the Company of equity
    securities in the last fiscal year that have not been registered
    under the Securities Act of 1933, except as previously reported
    by the Company on a Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

or a Current Report on

Form 8-K.



Performance
    Graph

The following performance graph compares the performance of our
    common stock with the performance of the Standard &
    Poor’s 500 Index, the Dow Jones US Gambling Index and a
    peer group of companies, during the period from the
    Company’s initial public offering on December 15, 2004
    through December 31, 2008. The selected peer group for 2008
    was comprised of two gaming companies considered to be the
    Company’s closest competitors: MGM MIRAGE and Wynn Resorts
    Limited. The selected peer group for 2007, 2006 and 2005
    included these two companies as well as Harrah’s
    Entertainment, Inc. In 2008, Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc.
    ceased to trade as a public company. The selected peer group for
    2004 included these three companies, as well as Caesars
    Entertainment, Inc. and Mandalay Resort Group. In 2005, Caesars
    Entertainment, Inc. was acquired by Harrah’s Entertainment,
    Inc. and Mandalay Resort Group was acquired by MGM MIRAGE. Due
    to the decrease in companies within our peer group, we will
    replace our peer group with the Dow Jones US Gambling Index in
    future filings. The graph plots the changes in value of an
    initial $100 investment over the indicated time period, assuming
    all dividends are reinvested. The stock price performance in
    this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price
    performance.

Cumulative Total Return

12/15/04

12/31/04

12/31/05

12/31/06

12/31/07

12/31/08

Las Vegas Sands Corp.

$

100.00

$

103.09

$

84.77

$

192.18

$

221.33

$

12.74

S&P 500

$

100.00

$

103.40

$

108.48

$

125.62

$

132.52

$

83.49

Dow Jones US Gambling Index

$

100.00

$

106.32

$

107.76

$

157.03

$

180.27

$

48.48

Peer Group

$

100.00

$

104.38

$

102.83

$

148.30

$

193.98

$

53.11

The performance graph should not be deemed filed or incorporated
    by reference into any other Company filing under the Securities
    Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent
    the Company specifically incorporates the performance graph by
    reference therein.



ITEM 6. —

SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA

The following reflects selected historical financial data that
    should be read in conjunction with “Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial
    statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K.

The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the
    results of operations to be expected in the future.

Year Ended December 31,


(1)


(2)




(3)

(In thousands, except per share data)

STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA

Gross revenues

$

4,735,126

$

3,104,422

$

2,340,178

$

1,824,225

$

1,258,570

Promotional allowances

(345,180

)

(153,855

)

(103,319

)

(83,313

)

(61,514

)

Net revenues

4,389,946

2,950,567

2,236,859

1,740,912

1,197,056

Operating expenses

4,226,283

2,620,557

1,662,762

1,251,461

578,588

Operating income

163,663

330,010

574,097

489,451

618,468

Interest expense, net

(402,039

)

(172,344

)

(69,662

)

(63,181

)

(130,337

)

Other income (expense)

19,492

(8,682

)

(189

)

(1,334

)

(131

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

(9,141

)

(10,705

)

—

(137,000

)

(6,553

)

Income (loss) before income taxes and noncontrolling interest

(228,025

)

138,279

504,246

287,936

481,447

Benefit (provision) for income taxes

59,700

(21,591

)

(62,243

)

(4,250

)

13,736

Noncontrolling interest

4,767

—

—

—

—

Net income (loss)

(163,558

)

116,688

442,003

283,686

495,183

Accumulated but undeclared dividend requirement on preferred
    stock

(6,784

)

—

—

—

—

Accumulated but undeclared dividend requirement on preferred
    stock issued to Principal Stockholder’s family

(6,854

)

—

—

—

—

Accretion to redemption value of preferred stock issued to
    Principal Stockholder’s family

(11,568

)

—

—

—

—

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

(188,764

)

$

116,688

$

442,003

$

283,686

$

495,183

Per share data

Basic earnings (loss) per share

$

(0.48

)

$

0.33

$

1.25

$

0.80

$

1.52

Diluted earnings (loss) per share

$

(0.48

)

$

0.33

$

1.24

$

0.80

$

1.52

Dividends declared per share

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

0.44

OTHER DATA

Capital expenditures

$

3,789,008

$

3,793,703

$

1,925,291

$

860,621

$

465,748

At December 31,






(In thousands)

BALANCE SHEET DATA

Total assets

$

17,144,113

$

11,466,517

$

7,126,458

$

3,879,739

$

3,601,478

Long-term debt

$

10,356,115

$

7,517,997

$

4,136,152

$

1,625,901

$

1,485,064

Stockholders’ equity

$

4,422,108

$

2,260,274

$

2,075,154

$

1,609,538

$

1,316,001



ITEM 7. —

MANAGEMENT’S
    DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
    OPERATIONS

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and
    is qualified in its entirety by, the audited consolidated
    financial statements, and the notes thereto and other financial
    information included in this

Form 10-K.

Certain statements in this “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” are forward-looking statements. See
    “— Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
    Statements.”

Operations

We view each of our casino properties as an operating segment.
    The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo operating segments are
    managed as a single integrated resort and have been aggregated
    into our Las Vegas Operating Properties, considering their
    similar economic characteristics, types of customers, types of
    service and products, the regulatory business environment of the
    operations within each segment and the Company’s
    organizational and management reporting structure. Approximately
    64.9% and 61.9% of gross revenue at our Las Vegas Operating
    Properties for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, was derived from room revenues, food and beverage
    services, and other non-gaming sources, and 35.1% and 38.1%,
    respectively, was derived from gaming activities. The percentage
    of non-gaming revenue reflects the integrated resort’s
    emphasis on the group convention and trade show business and the
    resulting high occupancy and room rates throughout the week,
    including during mid-week periods.

Our Macao operating segments consist of Sands Macao, The
    Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao and other ancillary
    operations that support these properties and will support our
    remaining Cotai Strip development projects. Approximately 92.5%
    and 94.8% of the gross revenue at the Sands Macao for the years
    ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, was derived
    from gaming activities, with the remainder primarily derived
    from room revenues and food and beverage services. Approximately
    78.8% and 81.4% of the gross revenue at The Venetian Macao for
    year ended December 31, 2008 and the period ended
    December 31, 2007, respectively, was derived from gaming
    activities, with the remainder derived from room revenues, food
    and beverage services, and other non-gaming sources.
    Approximately 68.4% of the gross revenue at the Four Seasons
    Macao for the period ended December 31, 2008, was derived
    from gaming activities, with the remainder primarily derived
    from retail and other non-gaming sources.

Development
    Projects

As mentioned above, given current conditions in the capital
    markets and the global economy and their impact on our ongoing
    operations, we have chosen to suspend portions of our
    development projects and will focus our development efforts on
    those projects with the highest rates of expected return on
    invested capital. Should general economic conditions not
    improve, if we are unable to obtain sufficient funding such that
    completion of our suspended projects is not probable, or should
    management decide to abandon certain projects, all or a portion
    of our investment to date on our suspended projects could be
    lost and would result in an impairment charge. In addition, we
    may be subject to penalties under the termination clauses in our
    construction contracts.

United
    States Development Projects

We are in the process of constructing the Sands Bethlehem, a
    gaming, hotel, retail and dining complex located on the site of
    the historic Bethlehem Steel Works in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,
    which is approximately 70 miles from midtown Manhattan, New
    York. We will continue construction of the casino component of
    the

124-acre

development, which will open with 3,000 slot machines (with the
    ability to increase to 5,000 slot machines six months after the
    opening date) and will include a variety of dining options, as
    well as the parking garage and surface parking. Construction
    activities on the remaining components, which include a 300-room
    hotel, an approximate 200,000-square-foot retail facility, a
    50,000-square-foot multipurpose event center and a variety of
    additional dining options, have been temporarily suspended and
    are intended to recommence when capital markets and general
    economic conditions improve. We expect to complete construction
    of the casino and parking components, and to prepare the
    additional components for delay in the second quarter of 2009.



We had been constructing the St. Regis Residences, which is
    situated between The Palazzo and The Venetian Las Vegas on the
    Las Vegas Strip and was expected to feature approximately 400
    luxury residences. We have suspended construction activities for
    the project due to reduced demand for Las Vegas Strip
    condominiums and the overall decline in general economic
    conditions. We intend to recommence construction when these
    conditions improve and expect that it will take approximately
    18 months from when construction recommences to complete
    the project.

Macao
    Development Projects

We have submitted plans to the Macao government for our Cotai
    Strip developments, which represent five integrated resort
    developments, in addition to The Venetian Macao and the Four
    Seasons Macao on an area of approximately 200 acres (which
    we refer to as parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8). The developments were
    expected to include hotels, exhibition and conference
    facilities, casinos, showrooms, shopping malls, spas,
    restaurants, entertainment facilities and other amenities. We
    had commenced construction or pre-construction for these five
    parcels and planned to own and operate all of the casinos in
    these developments under our Macao gaming subconcession.

We have suspended construction of phase I of parcels 5 and 6,
    which includes the Shangri-La and Traders tower and the
    first Sheraton tower, along with the podium that encompasses the
    casino, associated public areas, portions of the shopping mall
    and approximately 100,000 square feet of meeting space,
    while the Company pursues project-level financing. If and when
    financing has been obtained, we expect it will take
    approximately twelve months to complete construction of phase I.
    Construction of phase II of the project, which includes the
    second Sheraton tower and the St. Regis hotel and serviced
    luxury apartment hotel, has been suspended until conditions in
    the capital markets and general economic conditions improve. We
    had commenced pre-construction on parcels 7, 8 and 3, and intend
    to commence construction after necessary government approvals
    are obtained, regional and global economic conditions improve,
    future demand warrants it and additional financing is obtained.

Singapore
    Development Project

In August 2006, MBS entered into the Development Agreement with
    the STB to build and operate an integrated resort called Marina
    Bay Sands in Singapore. Based on our current development plan,
    we intend to continue construction on our existing timeline with
    the majority of the project targeted to open in late 2009 or
    early 2010.

Other
    Development Projects

When the current economic environment and access to capital
    improve, we may continue exploring the possibility of developing
    and operating additional properties, including integrated
    resorts, in additional Asian and U.S. jurisdictions, and in
    Europe. In July 2008, we withdrew our previously submitted
    application to develop a casino resort in the Kansas City,
    Kansas, metropolitan area.

Management
    Developments

On October 29, 2008, certain members of our management
    team, including Sheldon G. Adelson, Chairman of the Board and
    Chief Executive Officer, William P. Weidner, President and Chief
    Operating Officer, Bradley H. Stone, Executive Vice President,
    and Robert G. Goldstein, Senior Vice President (the “Senior
    Management Members”), recommended to our Board of Directors
    that it institute additional corporate policies and procedures.
    Upon such recommendation, our Board of Directors formed a
    committee (the “Advisory Committee”) comprised of
    Irwin Chafetz, Michael A. Leven and Irwin A. Siegel, with
    Mr. Leven as the Chairman of the Advisory Committee. The
    role of the Advisory Committee is to resolve disagreements among
    management. Also, the Board of Directors gave Mr. Stone the
    additional responsibilities of President of Global Operations
    and Construction. The Board of Directors adopted these measures
    to address governance concerns raised by the Senior Management
    Members, address a number of outstanding differences between our
    Chief Executive Officer and other Senior Management Members, and
    in response to a loss of confidence by certain Senior Management
    Members in the management of the Company and our governance
    process.



Summary
    Financial Results

The following table summarizes our results of operations:

Year Ended December 31,

Percent

Percent


Change


Change


(In thousands)

Net revenues

$

4,389,946

48.8

%

$

2,950,567

31.9

%

$

2,236,859

Operating expenses

4,226,283

61.3

%

2,620,557

57.6

%

1,662,762

Operating income

163,663

(50.4

)%

330,010

(42.5

)%

574,097

Income (loss) before income taxes and noncontrolling interest

(228,025

)

(264.9

)%

138,279

(72.6

)%

504,246

Net income (loss)

(163,558

)

(240.2

)%

116,688

(73.6

)%

442,003

Percent of Net Revenues

Year Ended December 31,




Operating expenses

96.3

%

88.8

%

74.3

%

Operating income

3.7

%

11.2

%

25.7

%

Income (loss) before income taxes and noncontrolling interest

(5.2

)%

4.7

%

22.5

%

Net income (loss)

(3.7

)%

4.0

%

19.8

%

Our historical financial results will not be indicative of our
    future results as we continue to open new properties, including
    the Sands Bethlehem in the second quarter of 2009 and Marina Bay
    Sands in late 2009 or early 2010.

Key
    Operating Revenue Measurements

Operating revenues at our Las Vegas Operating Properties, The
    Venetian Macao and Four Seasons Macao are dependent upon the
    volume of customers who stay at the hotel, which affects the
    price that can be charged for hotel rooms and the volume of
    table games and slot machine play. Hotel revenues are not
    material for the Sands Macao as its revenues are principally
    driven by casino customers who visit the casino on a daily basis.

The following are the key measurements we use to evaluate
    operating revenues:

Casino revenue measurements for Las
    Vegas:

Table games drop (“drop”) and
    slot handle (“handle”) are volume measurements. Win or
    hold percentage represents the percentage of drop or handle,
    respectively, that is won by the casino and recorded as casino
    revenue. Table games drop represents the sum of markers issued
    (credit instruments) less markers paid at the table, plus cash
    deposited in the table drop box. Slot handle is the gross amount
    wagered or coin placed into slot machines in aggregate for the
    period cited. Based upon our mix of table games, our table games
    produce a statistical average win percentage (calculated before
    discounts) as measured as a percentage of drop of 20.0% to 22.0%
    and slot machines produce a statistical average hold percentage
    (calculated before slot club cash incentives) as measured as a
    percentage of handle generally between 6.0% and 7.0%.

Casino revenue measurements for Macao:

Macao
    table games are segregated into two groups, consistent with the
    Macao market’s convention: Rolling Chip play (all VIP play)
    and Non-Rolling Chip play (mostly non-VIP players). The volume
    measurement for Rolling Chip play is non-negotiable gaming chips
    wagered. The volume measurement for Non-Rolling Chip play is
    table games drop as previously described. Rolling Chip volume
    and Non-Rolling Chip volume are not equivalent as Rolling Chip
    volume is a measure of amounts wagered versus dropped. Rolling
    Chip volume is substantially higher than table games drop. Slot
    handle is the gross amount wagered or coins placed into slot
    machines in aggregate for the period cited.

We view Rolling Chip table games win as a percentage of Rolling
    Chip volume and Non-Rolling Chip table games win as a percentage
    of Non-Rolling Chip drop. Win or hold percentage represents the
    percentage of Rolling Chip volume and Non-Rolling Chip drop or
    handle, respectively, that is won by the casino and recorded as
    casino revenue. Based upon our mix of table games in Macao, our
    Rolling Chip table games win percentage (calculated



before discounts and commissions) as measured as a percentage of
    Rolling Chip volume is expected to be 3.0% and our Non-Rolling
    Chip table games are expected to produce a statistical average
    win percentage as measured as a percentage of Non-Rolling Chip
    drop of 18.0% to 20.0%. Similar to Las Vegas, our Macao slot
    machines produce a statistical average hold percentage as
    measured as a percentage of handle of generally between 6.0% and
    7.0%.

Actual win may vary from the statistical average. Generally,
    slot machine play is conducted on a cash basis. Credit-based
    wagering for our Las Vegas properties was approximately 57.6% of
    table games revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008.
    Table games play at our Macao properties are conducted primarily
    on a cash basis with only 23.7% credit-based wagering for the
    year ended December 31, 2008.

Hotel revenue measurements:

Hotel occupancy
    rate, which is the average percentage of available hotel rooms
    occupied during a period, and average daily room rate, which is
    the average price of occupied rooms per day, are used as
    performance indicators. Revenue per available room represents a
    summary of hotel average daily room rates and occupancy. Because
    not all available rooms are occupied, average daily room rates
    are normally higher than revenue per available room. Reserved
    rooms where the guests do not show up for their stay and lose
    their deposit may be re-sold to walk-in guests. These rooms are
    considered to be occupied twice for statistical purposes due to
    obtaining the original deposit and the walk-in guest revenue. In
    cases where a significant number of rooms are re-sold, occupancy
    rates may be in excess of 100% and revenue per available room
    may be higher than the average daily room rate.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared to the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007

Operating
    Revenues

Our net revenues consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands)

Casino

$

3,192,099

$

2,250,421

41.8

%

Rooms

767,129

437,357

75.4

%

Food and beverage

369,062

238,252

54.9

%

Convention, retail and other

406,836

178,392

128.1

%

4,735,126

3,104,422

52.5

%

Less — promotional allowances

(345,180

)

(153,855

)

124.4

%

Total net revenues

$

4,389,946

$

2,950,567

48.8

%

Consolidated net revenues were $4.39 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2008, an increase of $1.44 billion
    compared to $2.95 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. The increase in net revenues was due
    primarily to a full year of operations of The Venetian Macao,
    which opened in August 2007, and The Palazzo, which opened in
    December 2007, and the opening of the Four Seasons Macao in
    August 2008.



Casino revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008,
    increased $941.7 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2007. Of the increase, $1.06 billion was
    attributable to the full year operation of The Venetian Macao
    and $46.1 million was attributable to the opening of the
    Four Seasons Macao, offset by a $283.8 million decrease at
    Sands Macao due primarily to increased competition as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2007. Casino revenues at our
    Las Vegas Operating Properties increased $118.2 million
    driven by the opening of The Palazzo, offset by lower than
    expected table games volume and win percentage as compared to
    the year ended December 31, 2007. The following table
    summarizes the results of our casino revenue activity:

Year Ended December 31,



Change

(In thousands)

Sands Macao

Total casino revenues

$

1,013,063

$

1,296,869

(21.9

)%

Non-Rolling Chip table games drop

$

2,626,877

$

3,525,609

(25.5

)%

Non-Rolling Chip table games win percentage

18.9

%

18.7

%

0.2

pts

Rolling Chip volume

$

25,182,225

$

26,325,271

(4.3

)%

Rolling Chip win percentage

2.64

%

2.97

%

(0.33

) pts

Slot handle

$

1,039,430

$

1,181,050

(12.0

)%

Slot hold percentage

7.8

%

6.9

%

0.9

pts

The Venetian Macao

Total casino revenues

$

1,610,505

$

549,298

193.2

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games drop

$

3,530,065

$

1,115,812

216.4

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games win percentage

19.9

%

17.3

%

2.6

pts

Rolling Chip volume

$

36,893,831

$

17,071,475

116.1

%

Rolling Chip win percentage

2.97

%

2.64

%

0.33

pts

Slot handle

$

1,941,895

$

490,068

296.2

%

Slot hold percentage

8.0

%

7.9

%

0.1

pts

Four Seasons Macao

Total casino revenues

$

46,094

$

—

—

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games drop

$

99,849

$

—

—

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games win percentage

21.1

%

—

%

—

pts

Rolling Chip volume

$

630,088

$

—

—

%

Rolling Chip win percentage

4.45

%

—

%

—

pts

Slot handle

$

38,238

$

—

—

%

Slot hold percentage

5.6

%

—

%

—

pts

Las Vegas Operating Properties

Total casino revenues

$

522,437

$

404,254

29.2

%

Table games drop

$

1,846,394

$

1,359,004

35.9

%

Table games win percentage

19.8

%

22.1

%

(2.3

) pts

Slot handle

$

3,666,072

$

2,489,329

47.3

%

Slot hold percentage

5.7

%

6.0

%

(0.3

) pts

In our experience, average win percentages remain steady when
    measured over extended periods of time but can vary considerably
    within shorter time periods as a result of the statistical
    variances that are associated with games of chance in which
    large amounts are wagered.

Room revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008,
    increased $329.8 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2007, due primarily to a full year of
    operations of The Venetian Macao and The Palazzo. The increase
    at our Las Vegas Operating Properties was offset by reduced ADR
    and occupancy rates that were negatively impacted by a reduction
    of room rates in order to increase visitation to The Palazzo and
    excess suite inventory as the



new resort ramps up its operations, respectively, and the
    overall decline in general economic conditions. Room revenues at
    Four Seasons Macao were negatively impacted by a low occupancy
    rate due to the slow ramp up of the property, offset by ADR of
    $344 during the period ended December 31, 2008. The suites
    at Sands Macao are primarily provided to casino patrons on a
    complimentary basis and therefore revenues of $27.1 million
    and $11.6 million for the years ended December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively, and related statistics have not
    been included in the following table, which summarizes the
    results of our room revenue activity.

Period Ended December 31,



Change

(Room revenues in thousands)

The Venetian Macao

Total room revenues

$

200,594

$

63,378

216.5

%

Average daily room rate

$


$


2.3

%

Occupancy rate

85.3

%

85.7

%

(0.4

) pts

Revenue per available room

$


$


1.6

%

Four Seasons Macao

Total room revenues

$

3,664

$

—

—

%

Average daily room rate

$


$

—

—

%

Occupancy rate

32.0

%

—

%

—

pts

Revenue per available room

$


$

—

—

%

Las Vegas Operating Properties

Total room revenues

$

535,797

$

362,404

47.8

%

Average daily room rate

$


$


(10.1

)%

Occupancy rate

91.3

%

98.4

%

(7.1

) pts

Revenue per available room

$


$


(16.5

)%

Food and beverage revenues for the year ended December 31,
    2008, increased $130.8 million as compared to the year
    ended December 31, 2007. The increase was primarily
    attributable to a full year of operations of The Venetian Macao,
    which increased $44.0 million, and The Palazzo, which was
    the primary driver of the $85.0 million increase at the Las
    Vegas Operating Properties, as well as several of our joint
    venture restaurants that opened in 2008.

Convention, retail and other revenues for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, increased $228.4 million as
    compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase
    was primarily attributable to an increase of $125.1 million
    at The Venetian Macao, which consisted primarily of a full year
    of rental revenues from the mall, $52.1 million at the Las
    Vegas Operating Properties, driven primarily by a full year of
    operations of The Palazzo, and $39.9 million in Other Asia,
    which consisted primarily of our passenger ferry service
    operations.



Operating
    Expenses

The breakdown of operating expenses is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands)

Casino

$

2,214,235

$

1,435,662

54.2

%

Rooms

154,615

94,219

64.1

%

Food and beverage

186,551

118,273

57.7

%

Convention, retail and other

213,351

97,689

118.4

%

Provision for doubtful accounts

41,865

26,369

58.8

%

General and administrative

550,529

319,357

72.4

%

Corporate expense

104,355

94,514

10.4

%

Rental expense

33,540

31,787

5.5

%

Pre-opening expense

162,322

189,280

(14.2

)%

Development expense

12,789

9,728

31.5

%

Depreciation and amortization

506,986

202,557

150.3

%

Impairment loss

37,568

—

—

%

Loss on disposal of assets

7,577

1,122

575.3

%

Total operating expenses

$

4,226,283

$

2,620,557

61.3

%

Operating expenses were $4.23 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, an increase of $1.61 billion as
    compared to $2.62 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. The increase in operating expenses was
    primarily attributable to full year of operations of The
    Venetian Macao and The Palazzo, the opening of the Four Seasons
    Macao, growth of our operating businesses in Macao and Las
    Vegas, and depreciation and amortization costs, as more fully
    described below.

Casino expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008,
    increased $778.6 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2007. Of the increase, $507.2 million was
    due to the 39.0% gross win tax on casino revenues of The
    Venetian Macao, offset by a $112.5 million decrease in
    gross win tax at the Sands Macao due to the decrease in casino
    revenues as noted above. An additional $238.5 million
    increase in casino-related expenses (exclusive of the
    aforementioned 39.0% gross win tax) were attributable to The
    Venetian Macao, primarily related to payroll-related expenses
    and commissions paid under the Rolling Chip program. Casino
    expenses at our Las Vegas Operating Properties increased
    $119.9 million primarily due to The Palazzo, consisting
    principally of payroll-related expenses and gaming-related
    taxes, and an increase in costs of providing promotional
    allowances.

Rooms expense increased $60.4 million and food and beverage
    expense increased $68.3 million as compared to the year
    ended December 31, 2007. These increases were primarily due
    to The Venetian Macao, The Palazzo and Four Seasons Macao.

Convention, retail and other expense increased
    $115.7 million, as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2007, of which $37.8 million was
    attributable to The Venetian Macao, $29.5 million was
    attributable to our Las Vegas Operating Properties and the
    remaining increase was primarily attributable to our passenger
    ferry service operations in Macao.

The provision for doubtful accounts was $41.9 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to
    $26.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.
    The amount of this provision can vary over short periods of time
    because of factors specific to the customers who owe us money
    from gaming activities at any given time. We believe that the
    amount of our provision for doubtful accounts in the future will
    depend upon the state of the economy, our credit standards, our
    risk assessments and the judgment of our employees responsible
    for granting credit.



General and administrative expenses for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, increased $231.2 million as
    compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase
    was primarily attributable to the growth of our operating
    businesses in Las Vegas, Macao and our Other Asia segment, with
    $92.7 million of the increase being incurred at our Las
    Vegas Operating Properties, $112.0 million being incurred
    at The Venetian Macao and $15.1 million being incurred in
    Other Asia.

Pre-opening and development expenses were $162.3 million
    and $12.8 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, as compared to $189.3 million and
    $9.7 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. Pre-opening expense represents personnel
    and other costs incurred prior to the opening of new ventures,
    which are expensed as incurred. Pre-opening expenses for the
    year ended December 31, 2008, were primarily related to
    activities at Four Seasons Macao, our other Cotai Strip
    developments, Marina Bay Sands, Sands Bethlehem and St. Regis
    Residences. Development expenses include the costs associated
    with the Company’s evaluation and pursuit of new business
    opportunities, which are also expensed as incurred. Development
    expenses for year ended December 31, 2008, were primarily
    related to our activities in Hengqin Island, Asia, Europe and
    the U.S.

Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, increased $304.4 million as
    compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase
    was primarily attributable to The Venetian Macao (totaling
    $130.5 million), The Palazzo (totaling $131.3 million)
    and the Four Seasons Macao (totaling $16.4 million).

An impairment loss of $37.6 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, primarily related to certain real estate
    and transportation assets that were previously utilized in
    connection with marketing activities in Asia.

Adjusted
    EBITDAR

Adjusted EBITDAR is used by management as the primary measure of
    the operating performance of our segments. Adjusted EBITDAR is
    net income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation
    and amortization, pre-opening expense, development expense,
    other income (expense), loss on early retirement of debt, loss
    on disposal of assets, impairment loss, rental expense,
    corporate expense, stock-based compensation expense included in
    general and administrative expense, and noncontrolling interest.
    The following table summarizes information related to our
    segments (see “Item 8 — Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements — Note 17 —
    Segment Information” for discussion of our operating
    segments and a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDAR to net income
    (loss)):

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands)

Las Vegas Operating Properties

$

392,139

$

361,076

8.6

%

Macao:

Sands Macao

214,573

373,507

(42.6

)%

The Venetian Macao

499,025

144,417

245.5

%

Four Seasons Macao

7,567

—

—

%

Other Asia

(49,465

)

(4,250

)

(1,063.9

)%

Total Adjusted EBITDAR

$

1,063,839

$

874,750

21.6

%

With the opening of The Palazzo, Adjusted EBITDAR at our Las
    Vegas Operating Properties increased $31.1 million, as
    compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. This increase
    was primarily attributable to an increase of $350.9 million
    in net revenue, offset by an increase of $165.8 million in
    payroll-related expenses, increases in operating expenses
    associated with the increase in the related revenue categories
    and an increase in general and administrative expenses to
    support the growth of the Las Vegas Operating Properties.

Adjusted EBITDAR at Sands Macao decreased $158.9 million,
    as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. As
    previously described, the decrease was primarily attributable to
    the decrease in casino revenues of $283.8 million, offset
    by a $112.5 million decrease in gross win tax on reduced
    casino revenues. As a result of increased competition, we expect
    the 2008 results for the Sands Macao to be more representative
    of future results than prior periods.



Adjusted EBITDAR at The Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao and
    our Other Asia segments do not have comparable prior-year
    periods. Results of the operations of these segments are as
    previously described. Our Other Asia segment is composed
    primarily of our passenger ferry service between Macao and Hong
    Kong, which initiated evening sailings and increased its
    frequency of sailings during peak hours in June 2008.

Interest
    Expense

The following table summarizes information related to interest
    expense on long-term debt:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands)

Interest cost (which includes the amortization of deferred
    financing costs and original issue discounts)

$

553,040

$

468,056

Less — capitalized interest

(131,215

)

(223,248

)

Interest expense, net

$

421,825

$

244,808

Cash paid for interest

$

516,912

$

438,301

Average total debt balance

$

9,081,135

$

6,148,835

Weighted average interest rate

6.1

%

7.6

%

Interest cost increased $85.0 million as compared to the
    year ended December 31, 2007, resulting from the
    substantial increase in our average long-term debt balances,
    partially offset by a decrease in interest rates, the proceeds
    from which were primarily used to fund our various development
    projects. See “— Liquidity and Capital
    Resources” for further detail of our financing activities.
    The increase in interest cost was offset by the capitalization
    of $131.2 million of interest during the year ended
    December 31, 2008, as compared to $223.2 million of
    capitalized interest during the year ended December 31,
    2007. The decrease in capitalized interest is due primarily to
    the openings of The Venetian Macao and The Palazzo in 2007, and
    the Four Seasons Macao in August 2008. Capitalized interest is
    expected to decrease in 2009 as we have discontinued
    capitalizing interest on our recently suspended projects.
    Leasehold interest in land payments made in Macao and Singapore
    are not considered qualifying assets and as such, are not
    included in the base amount used to determine capitalized
    interest.

Other
    Factors Effecting Earnings

Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2008, was
    $19.8 million, a decrease of $52.7 million as compared
    to $72.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.
    The decrease was attributable to a reduction of invested cash
    balances during the year, primarily from our borrowings under
    the U.S. senior secured credit facility and the Macao
    credit facility, which was spent on construction-related
    activities, as well as a decrease in interest rates.

Other income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was
    $19.5 million compared to other expense of
    $8.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The
    other income and other expense amounts were primarily
    attributable to foreign exchange gains and losses associated
    with U.S. denominated debt held in Macao, and the change in
    the fair value of our Singapore interest rate caps entered into
    in 2008.

The loss on early retirement of debt of $9.1 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2008, was due to the conversion
    of the $475.0 million Convertible Senior Notes to shares of
    common stock and the refinancing of the Singapore bridge
    facility.

Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31,
    2008, is a beneficial rate of 26.2%. The effective tax rate
    benefit for the year reflects a pre-tax book loss in the U.S.,
    which has a statutory rate of 35%, and a zero tax rate from the
    income tax exemption on our Macao gaming operations, which is
    set to expire in 2013. The non-deductible pre-opening expenses
    in foreign subsidiaries and the non-realizable net operating
    losses in foreign jurisdictions unfavorably impacted the rate.
    The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31,
    2007, was 15.6% and was primarily attributable to the
    aforementioned Macao income tax exemption. The effective tax
    rate changed primarily due to the pre-tax domestic loss for the
    year ended December 31, 2008, and the pre-tax foreign
    income for the year ended December 31, 2007.



Year
    Ended December 31, 2007 compared to the Year Ended
    December 31, 2006

Operating
    Revenues

Our net revenues consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands)

Casino

$

2,250,421

$

1,676,061

34.3

%

Rooms

437,357

350,606

24.7

%

Food and beverage

238,252

187,819

26.9

%

Convention, retail and other

178,392

125,692

41.9

%

3,104,422

2,340,178

32.7

%

Less — promotional allowances

(153,855

)

(103,319

)

48.9

%

Total net revenues

$

2,950,567

$

2,236,859

31.9

%

Consolidated net revenues were $2.95 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2007, an increase of $713.7 million
    compared to $2.24 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase in net revenues was due
    primarily to the opening of The Venetian Macao in August 2007.

Casino revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    increased $574.4 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Of the increase, $549.3 million was
    attributable to the opening of The Venetian Macao in August 2007
    and $32.6 million was attributable to the growth of our
    casino operations at the Sands Macao, offset by a slight
    decrease at The Venetian Las Vegas of $6.8 million,
    attributable to a decrease in win percentage as compared to the
    year ended December 31, 2006. The following table
    summarizes the results of our casino revenue activity:

Year Ended December 31,



Change

(In thousands)

Sands Macao

Total casino revenues

$

1,296,869

$

1,264,290

2.6

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games drop

$

3,525,609

$

4,178,655

(15.6

)%

Non-Rolling Chip table games win percentage

18.7

%

18.6

%

0.1

pts

Rolling Chip volume

$

26,325,271

$

17,114,962

53.8

%

Rolling Chip win percentage

2.97

%

3.18

%

(0.21

) pts

Slot handle

$

1,181,050

$

1,048,795

12.6

%

Slot hold percentage

6.9

%

7.7

%

(0.8

) pts

The Venetian Macao

Total casino revenues

$

549,298

$

—

—

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games drop

$

1,115,812

$

—

—

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games win percentage

17.3

%

—

%

—

pts

Rolling Chip volume

$

17,071,475

$

—

—

%

Rolling Chip win percentage

2.64

%

—

%

—

pts

Slot handle

$

490,068

$

—

—

%

Slot hold percentage

7.9

%

—

%

—

pts

The Venetian Las Vegas

Total casino revenues

$

405,014

$

411,771

(1.6

)%

Table games drop

$

1,353,683

$

1,266,931

6.8

%

Table games win percentage

22.3

%

26.0

%

(3.7

) pts

Slot handle

$

2,483,531

$

2,136,267

16.3

%

Slot hold percentage

6.0

%

6.5

%

(0.5

) pts



In our experience, average win percentages remain steady when
    measured over extended periods of time but can vary considerably
    within shorter time periods as a result of the statistical
    variances that are associated with games of chance in which
    large amounts are wagered. The table above excludes The Palazzo
    for 2007 as the two days of operations are not material or
    indicative of future results.

Room revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    increased $86.8 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily attributable
    to $63.4 million from The Venetian Macao as well as an
    increase in the average daily room rate at The Venetian Las
    Vegas. The Palazzo suites were not open to the public until
    January 2008. The suites at Sands Macao are primarily provided
    to casino patrons on a complimentary basis and therefore have
    not been included in the following table, which summarizes the
    results of our room revenue activity.

Period Ended December 31,



Change

(Room revenues in thousands)

The Venetian Macao

Total room revenues

$

63,378

$

—

—

%

Average daily room rate

$


$

—

—

%

Occupancy rate

85.7

%

—

%

—

pts

Revenue per available room

$


$

—

—

%

The Venetian Las Vegas

Total room revenues

$

362,404

$

343,995

5.4

%

Average daily room rate

$


$


7.9

%

Occupancy rate

98.4

%

98.7

%

(0.3

) pts

Revenue per available room

$


$


7.6

%

Food and beverage revenues for the year ended December 31,
    2007, increased $50.4 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily attributable
    to $21.2 million from The Venetian Macao and increases of
    $11.4 million at the Sands Macao due to the increased
    number of visitors and $8.0 million at The Venetian Las
    Vegas from two of our joint venture restaurants which opened
    during summer 2007.

Convention, retail and other revenues for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, increased $52.7 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase was
    primarily attributable to $41.3 million of revenues from
    The Venetian Macao, consisting principally of rental revenues
    from the mall, and approximately $9.6 million of other
    revenue related to large group room cancellations at The
    Venetian Las Vegas.



Operating
    Expenses

The breakdown of operating expenses is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands)

Casino

$

1,435,662

$

925,033

55.2

%

Rooms

94,219

85,651

10.0

%

Food and beverage

118,273

89,113

32.7

%

Convention, retail and other

97,689

64,315

51.9

%

Provision for doubtful accounts

26,369

18,067

46.0

%

General and administrative

319,357

230,355

38.6

%

Corporate expense

94,514

59,570

58.7

%

Rental expense

31,787

13,478

135.8

%

Pre-opening expense

189,280

37,673

402.4

%

Development expense

9,728

26,112

(62.7

)%

Depreciation and amortization

202,557

110,771

82.9

%

Loss on disposal of assets

1,122

2,624

(57.2

)%

Total operating expenses

$

2,620,557

$

1,662,762

57.6

%

Operating expenses were $2.62 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, an increase of $957.8 million as
    compared to $1.66 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase in operating expenses was
    primarily attributable to the higher operating revenues, growth
    of our operating businesses in Macao and to a lesser extent in
    Las Vegas, and pre-opening activities as more fully described
    below.

Casino expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    increased $510.6 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Of the $510.6 million increase,
    $322.1 million was due to the 39.0% gross win tax on higher
    casino revenues from our properties in Macao. An additional
    $109.6 million in casino-related expenses (exclusive of the
    aforementioned 39.0% gross win tax) were attributable to The
    Venetian Macao. The remaining increase was primarily
    attributable to additional payroll-related expenses and our
    Rolling Chip program at Sands Macao.

Rooms expense increased $8.6 million, food and beverage
    expense increased $29.2 million and convention, retail and
    other expense increased $33.4 million. These increases were
    primarily due to the associated increase in the respective
    revenue categories as noted above.

The provision for doubtful accounts was $26.4 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to
    $18.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006,
    due primarily to a $10.6 million provision for one customer
    in the beginning of 2007. The amount of this provision can vary
    over short periods of time because of factors specific to the
    customers who owe us money from gaming activities at any given
    time. We believe that the amount of our provision for doubtful
    accounts in the future will depend upon the state of the
    economy, our credit standards, our risk assessments and the
    judgment of our employees responsible for granting credit.

General and administrative expenses for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, increased $89.0 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase was
    attributable to the growth of our operating businesses in Las
    Vegas and Macao, with $69.5 million of the increase being
    incurred at The Venetian Macao and $6.9 million being
    incurred in Las Vegas and at Sands Macao related to stock-based
    compensation expense.

Corporate expense for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    increased $34.9 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase was attributable to
    increases of $16.2 million in legal and professional fees,
    $5.2 million in payroll-related expenses, $4.5 million
    in travel-related expenses and $9.0 million of other
    corporate general and administrative costs as we continue to
    build our corporate infrastructure to support our current and
    planned growth.



Rental expense for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    increased $18.3 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase is primarily attributable
    to a full year of amortization of Singapore’s leasehold
    interest in land, which we entered into in August 2006, and
    amortization of the leasehold interest in land for parcels 1, 2
    and 3 on the Cotai Strip, which we entered into in February 2007.

Pre-opening and development expenses were $189.3 million
    and $9.7 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, as compared to $37.7 million and
    $26.1 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Pre-opening expense represents personnel
    and other costs incurred prior to the opening of new ventures,
    which are expensed as incurred. Pre-opening expenses for the
    year ended December 31, 2007, were primarily related to the
    opening of The Venetian Macao and The Palazzo, and activities at
    our other Cotai Strip developments, Marina Bay Sands and Sands
    Bethlehem. Development expenses include the costs associated
    with the Company’s evaluation and pursuit of new business
    opportunities, which are also expensed as incurred. Development
    expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007, were
    primarily related to our activities in Hengqin Island, Asia,
    Europe and the U.S. We expect that pre-opening and
    development expenses will decrease due to the opening of The
    Venetian Macao and The Palazzo during 2007.

Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, increased $91.8 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase was
    primarily the result of The Venetian Macao (totaling
    $60.0 million) and a full year of depreciation expense
    related to the Sands Macao podium expansion (an increase of
    $7.0 million), which was placed into service in August
    2006. Additionally, there was $7.5 million in accelerated
    deprecation expense during the year ended December 31,
    2007, related to the replacement of assets at The Venetian Las
    Vegas in connection with the room renovation project.

Adjusted
    EBITDAR

Adjusted EBITDAR is used by management as the primary measure of
    the operating performance of our segments. Adjusted EBITDAR is
    net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and
    amortization, pre-opening expense, development expense, other
    expense, loss on early retirement of debt, loss on disposal of
    assets, rental expense, corporate expense and stock-based
    compensation expense included in general and administrative
    expense. The following table summarizes information related to
    our segments (see “Item 8 — Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements —
    Note 17 — Segment Information” for
    discussion of our operating segments and a reconciliation of
    Adjusted EBITDAR to net income):

Year Ended December 31,

Percent



Change

(In thousands)

Las Vegas Operating Properties

$

361,076

$

373,460

(3.3

)%

Macao:

Sands Macao

373,507

457,998

(18.4

)%

The Venetian Macao

144,417

—

—

%

Other Asia

(4,250

)

—

—

%

Total Adjusted EBITDAR

$

874,750

$

831,458

5.2

%

Adjusted EBITDAR at our Las Vegas Operating Properties decreased
    $12.4 million, as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. This decrease was primarily attributable
    to an increase of $58.4 million in payroll-related expenses
    to support the growth of our operating businesses, offset by an
    increase of $24.4 million in net revenue.

Adjusted EBITDAR at Sands Macao decreased $84.5 million, as
    compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. As previously
    described, the decrease was primarily attributable to a
    $116.6 million increase in casino expenses primarily
    related to the gross tax on casino revenues, payroll-related
    expenses and our Rolling Chip program, offset by an increase in
    net revenues of $37.6 million.



Adjusted EBITDAR at The Venetian Macao and our Other Asia
    segments do not have comparable prior-year periods. Results of
    the operations of The Venetian Macao are as previously
    described. Our Other Asia segment is composed primarily of our
    passenger ferry service between Macao and Hong Kong.

Interest
    Expense

The following table summarizes information related to interest
    expense on long-term debt:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands)

Interest cost (which includes the amortization of deferred
    financing costs and original issue discounts)

$

468,056

$

230,447

Less — capitalized interest

(223,248

)

(94,594

)

Interest expense, net

$

244,808

$

135,853

Cash paid for interest

$

438,301

$

215,975

Average total debt balance

$

6,148,835

$

2,898,936

Weighted average interest rate

7.6

%

7.9

%

Interest cost increased $237.6 million as compared to the
    year ended December 31, 2006, resulting from the
    substantial increase in our average long-term debt balances, the
    proceeds from which were primarily used to fund our various
    development projects. See “— Liquidity and
    Capital Resources” for further detail of our financing
    activities. The increase in interest cost was offset by the
    capitalization of $223.2 million of interest during the
    year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to
    $94.6 million of capitalized interest during the year ended
    December 31, 2006. We expect our interest cost will
    continue to increase as our long-term debt balances increase.
    Leasehold interest in land payments made in Macao and Singapore
    are not considered qualifying assets and as such, are not
    included in the base amount used to determine capitalized
    interest.

Other
    Factors Effecting Earnings

Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2007, was
    $72.5 million, an increase of $6.3 million as compared
    to $66.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
    The increase was attributable to additional invested cash
    balances, primarily from our borrowings under the
    U.S. senior secured credit facilities and the Macao credit
    facility that have not yet been spent.

Other expense for the year ended December 31, 2007, was
    $8.7 million as compared to $0.2 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006. The $8.7 million expense
    amount was primarily attributable to foreign exchange losses
    associated with U.S. denominated debt held in Macao.

The loss on early retirement of debt of $10.7 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2007, was due to the
    refinancing of our prior U.S. senior secured credit
    facility and the early retirement of the construction loan
    related to The Shoppes at The Palazzo.

Our effective income tax rate for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, was 15.6%. The effective tax rate for
    the year was significantly lower than the federal statutory rate
    due primarily to a zero effective tax rate on our Macao net
    income as a result of an income tax exemption in Macao on gaming
    operations. We will continue to benefit from this tax exemption
    through the end of 2013. The effective tax rate was 12.3% for
    the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to the
    application of the aforementioned Macao income tax exemption.
    The effective income tax rate for 2007 was higher than the 2006
    period due to no tax benefit being recorded on certain losses in
    some foreign jurisdictions and our geographic income mix.



Liquidity
    and Capital Resources

Cash
    Flows — Summary

Our cash flows consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Net cash provided by (used in) operations

$

127,786

$

365,457

$

(196,720

)

Investing cash flows:

Capital expenditures

(3,789,008

)

(3,793,703

)

(1,925,291

)

Change in restricted cash

218,044

556,276

(310,565

)

Acquisition of gaming license included in other assets

—

(50,000

)

—

Net cash used in investing activities

(3,570,964

)

(3,287,427

)

(2,235,856

)

Financing cash flows:

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

6,834

30,221

7,226

Proceeds from common stock issued, net of transaction costs

1,053,695

—

—

Proceeds from preferred stock and warrants issued to Principal
    Stockholder’s family, net of transaction costs

523,720

—

—

Proceeds from preferred stock and warrants issued, net of
    transaction costs

503,625

—

—

Proceeds from convertible senior notes from Principal
    Stockholder’s family

475,000

—

—

Proceeds from long term-debt

4,616,201

5,135,076

2,619,995

Repayments of long-term debt

(1,725,908

)

(1,775,801

)

(132,746

)

Proceeds from the sale of The Shoppes at The Palazzo

243,928

—

—

Other

(91,856

)

(66,631

)

(51,493

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

5,605,239

3,322,865

2,442,982

Effect of exchange rate on cash

18,952

(11,811

)


Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

$

2,181,013

$

389,084

$

11,220

Cash
    Flows — Operating Activities

Table games play at our Las Vegas properties is conducted on a
    cash and credit basis while table games play at our Macao
    properties is conducted primarily on a cash basis. Slot machine
    play is primarily conducted on a cash basis. The retail hotel
    rooms business is generally conducted on a cash basis, the group
    hotel rooms business is conducted on a cash and credit basis,
    and banquet business is conducted primarily on a credit basis
    resulting in operating cash flows being generally affected by
    changes in operating income and accounts receivable. Net cash
    provided by operating activities for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, was $127.8 million, a decrease of
    $237.7 million as compared with $365.5 million for the
    year ended December 31, 2007. The main factors contributing
    to the decrease in operating cash flow are the decrease in our
    operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008, and
    a significant increase in our accounts receivable (due to the
    gaming activity at our Las Vegas Operations and an increase in
    our granting of casino credit at our Macao properties), offset
    by a decrease in leasehold interests in land payments during the
    year ended December 31, 2008.



Cash
    Flows — Investing Activities

Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2008,
    totaled $3.79 billion, including $2.0 billion for
    construction and development activities in Macao (primarily
    related to Four Seasons Macao and our other Cotai Strip
    developments); $447.9 million for construction and
    development activities at The Palazzo and The Shoppes at The
    Palazzo; $763.6 million for construction and development
    activities in Singapore; $130.0 million on improvements and
    maintenance capital expenditures at The Venetian Las Vegas and
    Sands Expo Center in Las Vegas; $307.5 million for the
    construction of Sands Bethlehem; and $139.6 million for
    corporate and other activities, primarily for the construction
    of the St. Regis Residences.

Restricted cash decreased $218.0 million due primarily to a
    $276.2 million decrease in restricted cash balances in
    Singapore as we made construction payments related to Marina Bay
    Sands, offset by $64.9 million in Macao related to proceeds
    from loan draws to fund construction costs related primarily to
    Four Seasons Macao and our other Cotai Strip developments.

Cash
    Flows — Financing Activities

For the year ended December 31, 2008, net cash flows
    provided from financing activities were $5.61 billion. The
    net increase was primarily attributable to $2.56 billion in
    net proceeds from the issuance of our common and preferred
    stock, warrants and Convertible Senior Notes, and net borrowings
    of $1.74 billion under the U.S. senior secured credit
    facility, $444.3 million under the Macao credit facility,
    $404.0 million under the Singapore credit facilities,
    $218.6 million under the ferry financing credit facility
    and $243.9 million in proceeds received from the sale of
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo.

Development
    Financing Strategy

Through December 31, 2008, we have principally funded our
    development projects through borrowings under our U.S., Macao
    and Singapore bank credit facilities (see
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt”), operating cash flows and proceeds from the
    disposition of non-core assets. We held unrestricted and
    restricted cash and cash equivalents of approximately
    $3.04 billion and $194.8 million, respectively, as of
    December 31, 2008.

Commencing September 30, 2008, the U.S. senior secured
    credit facility and FF&E financings require our Las Vegas
    operations to comply with certain financial covenants at the end
    of each quarter, including maintaining a maximum leverage ratio
    of net debt, as defined, to trailing twelve-month adjusted
    earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and
    amortization, as defined (“Adjusted EBITDA”). The
    maximum leverage ratio decreases from 7.5x as of
    December 31, 2008, to 7.0x for the quarterly periods ending
    March 31 and June 30, 2009, and then to 6.5x for the
    quarterly periods ending September 30 and December 31,
    2009. In Macao, our credit facility also requires us to comply
    with similar financial covenants, including maintaining a
    maximum leverage ratio of debt to Adjusted EBITDA. The maximum
    leverage ratio decreases from 4.5x as of December 31, 2008,
    to 4.0x for the quarterly periods ending March 31 and
    June 30, 2009, and then to 3.5x for the quarterly periods
    ending September 30 and December 31, 2009. If we are unable
    to maintain compliance with the financial covenants under these
    credit facilities, we would be in default under the respective
    credit facilities. A default under our domestic credit
    facilities would trigger a cross-default under our airplane
    financings, which, if the respective lenders chose to accelerate
    the indebtedness outstanding under these agreements, would
    result in a default under our senior notes. A default under our
    Macao credit facilities would trigger a cross-default under our
    ferry financings. Any defaults or cross-defaults under these
    agreements would allow the lenders, in each case, to exercise
    their rights and remedies as defined under their respective
    agreements. If the lenders were to exercise their rights to
    accelerate the due dates of the indebtedness outstanding, there
    can be no assurance that we would be able to pay or refinance
    any amounts that may become accelerated under such agreements,
    which could force us to restructure or alter our operations or
    debt obligations.

As our Las Vegas properties did not achieve the levels of
    Adjusted EBITDA necessary to maintain compliance with the
    maximum leverage ratio for the quarterly periods ended September
    30 and December 31, 2008, we completed a private placement
    of $475.0 million in Convertible Senior Notes in September
    2008 and a $2.1 billion common and preferred stock and
    warrants offering in November 2008 (see
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and



Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt” and “Item 8 — Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements —
    Note 9 — Stockholders’ Equity”,
    respectively). A portion of the proceeds from the convertible
    senior notes was used to exercise the EBITDA

true-up

provision (as defined below) for the quarterly period ended
    September 30, 2008, which, by itself, would not have been
    sufficient to maintain compliance with the maximum leverage
    ratio when applied to the quarterly periods ended September 30
    and December 31, 2008. Accordingly, additional proceeds
    from the offerings were contributed to LVSLLC to reduce the net
    debt of the parties to the domestic credit facilities in order
    to maintain compliance with the maximum leverage ratio for the
    quarterly periods ended September 30 and December 31, 2008.
    As of December 31, 2008, our domestic leverage ratio was
    6.2x, compared to the maximum leverage ratio of 7.5x. Adjusted
    EBITDA generated by our Macao operations was sufficient to
    maintain compliance with the respective maximum leverage ratio
    for the quarterly periods ended during 2008. As of
    December 31, 2008, our Macao leverage ratio was 4.0x,
    compared to the maximum leverage ratio of 4.5x.

In order to fund our revised development plan, as described in
    “— Note 1 — Organization and
    Business of Company — Development Projects,” and
    comply with the maximum leverage ratio covenants of our
    U.S. and Macao credit facilities for quarterly periods in
    2009 and beyond, we will utilize cash on hand, cash flow from
    operations and available borrowings under our credit facilities.
    We will also need to execute on some, or a combination, of the
    following measures: (i) achieve increased levels of
    Adjusted EBITDA at our Las Vegas and Macao properties, primarily
    through aggressive cost-cutting measures; (ii) successfully
    complete the sale of certain non-core assets (e.g. Four Seasons
    Apartments or the malls at The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons
    Macao), a portion of the proceeds from which would be used to
    repay our debt; (iii) elect to contribute up to
    $50 million and $20 million of cash on hand to our Las
    Vegas and Macao operations, respectively, on a bi-quarterly
    basis (such contributions having the effect of increasing
    Adjusted EBITDA by the corresponding amount during the
    applicable quarter for purposes of calculating maximum leverage
    ratio (the “EBITDA

true-up”));

or (iv) execute a debt reduction plan. If the
    aforementioned measures are not sufficient to fund our revised
    development plan and maintain compliance with our financial
    covenants, we may also need to execute on some, or a
    combination, of the following measures: (i) further
    decrease the rate of spending on our global development
    projects; (ii) obtain additional financing at our parent
    company level, the proceeds from which could be used to reduce
    or repay debt in Las Vegas

and/or

Macao; (iii) consider other asset sales; (iv) elect to
    delay payment of dividends on the Preferred Stock; or
    (v) seek waivers or amendments under our Las Vegas and
    Macao credit facilities; however, there can be no assurance that
    we will be able to obtain such waivers or amendments. Management
    believes that successful execution of some combination of the
    above measures will be sufficient for us to fund our commitments
    and maintain compliance with our financial covenants throughout
    2009.



Aggregate
    Indebtedness and Other Known Contractual Obligations

Our total long-term indebtedness and other known contractual
    obligations are summarized below as of December 31, 2008:

Payments Due by Period Ending December 31,

(12)

Less than

More than

1 Year

2-3 Years

4-5 Years

5 Years

Total

(In thousands)

Long-Term Debt
    Obligations

(1)

Senior Secured Credit Facility —

Term B

$

30,000

$

60,000

$

60,000

$

2,805,000

$

2,955,000

Senior Secured Credit Facility — Delayed Draw I

6,000

12,000

12,000

567,000

597,000

Senior Secured Credit Facility — Delayed Draw II

4,000

8,000

388,000

—

400,000

Senior Secured Credit Facility — Revolving

—

—

775,860

—

775,860

6.375% Senior Notes

—

—

—

250,000

250,000

FF&E Financing

25,050

116,900

—

—

141,950

Airplane Financings

3,687

7,375

7,375

67,360

85,797

Other U.S.

1,779

3,986

—

—

5,765

Macao Credit Facility — Term B and Local Term

26,000

124,089

1,750,500

—

1,900,589

Macao Credit Facility — Term B Delayed

5,250

352,625

342,125

—

700,000

Macao Credit Facility — Revolving

—

695,299

—

—

695,299

Ferry Financing

12,857

51,427

51,426

102,854

218,564

Other Macao

—

11,054

—

—

11,054

Singapore Permanent Facility

—

347,506

695,013

692,733

1,735,252

Fixed Interest Payments

15,937

31,875

31,875

18,594

98,281

Variable Interest
    Payments

(2)

348,333

658,632

414,534

80,206

1,501,705

Contractual Obligations

HVAC Provider Fixed
    Payments

(3)

3,413

—

—

—

3,413

Former
    Tenants

(4)


1,300

1,227

6,800

9,977

Employment
    Agreements

(5)

6,865

6,153

1,125

—

14,143

Macao Leasehold Interests in
    Land

(6)

45,088

21,567

6,346

57,357

130,358

Mall
    Leases

(7)

8,608

17,601

17,694

125,547

169,450

Macao Annual
    Premium

(8)

33,078

66,156

66,156

281,162

446,552

Ferries Purchase
    Commitment

(9)

10,822

—

—

—

10,822

Parking Lot
    Lease

(10)

1,200

2,400

2,400

108,300

114,300

Other Operating
    Leases

(11)

7,229

7,152

3,626

—

18,007

Total

$

595,846

$

2,603,097

$

4,627,282

$

5,162,913

$

12,989,138

(1)

See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt” for further details on these financing transactions.

(2)

Based on December 31, 2008, London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
    (“LIBOR”) rate of 1.4%, Hong Kong Inter-Bank Offer
    Rate (“HIBOR”) rate of 0.3% and Singapore Swap Offer
    rate of 1.5% plus the applicable interest rate spread in
    accordance with the respective debt agreements.



Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements

We have not entered into any transactions with special purpose
    entities, nor have we engaged in any derivative transactions
    other than interest rate caps.

Restrictions
    on Distributions

We are a parent company with limited business operations. Our
    main asset is the stock and membership interests of our
    subsidiaries. The debt instruments of our U.S., Macao and
    Singapore subsidiaries contain certain restrictions that, among
    other things, limit the ability of certain subsidiaries to incur
    additional indebtedness, issue disqualified stock or equity
    interests, pay dividends or make other distributions, repurchase
    equity interests or certain indebtedness, create certain liens,
    enter into certain transactions with affiliates, enter into
    certain mergers or consolidations or sell our assets of our
    company without prior approval of the lenders or noteholders.

Inflation

We believe that inflation and changing prices have not had a
    material impact on our sales, revenues or income from continuing
    operations during the past three fiscal years.



Special
    Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This report contains forward-looking statements that are made
    pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements
    include the discussions of our business strategies and
    expectations concerning future operations, margins,
    profitability, liquidity, and capital resources. In addition, in
    certain portions included in this report, the words:
    “anticipates,” “believes,”
    “estimates,” “seeks,” “expects,”
    “plans,” “intends” and similar expressions,
    as they relate to our company or its management, are intended to
    identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that
    these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot
    assure you that any forward-looking statements will prove to be
    correct. These forward-looking statements involve known and
    unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause
    our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially
    different from any future results, performance or achievements
    expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These
    factors include, among others, the risks associated with:

•

our substantial leverage, debt service and debt covenant
    compliance (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest
    rates and other capital markets trends);

•

recent disruptions in the global financing markets and our
    ability to obtain sufficient funding for our current and future
    developments, including our Cotai Strip, Pennsylvania, Singapore
    and Las Vegas developments;

•

general economic and business conditions which may impact levels
    of disposable income, consumer spending, pricing of hotel rooms
    and retail and mall sales;

•

the impact of the suspensions of certain of our development
    projects and our ability to meet certain development deadlines,
    including Macao and Singapore;

•

the uncertainty of tourist behavior related to spending and
    vacationing at casino-resorts in Las Vegas, Macao and Singapore;

•

visa restrictions limiting the number of visits and the length
    of stay for visitors from mainland China to our Macao properties;

•

our dependence upon properties in Las Vegas and Macao for all of
    our cash flow;

•

our relationship with GGP or any successor owner of The Shoppes
    at The Palazzo and The Grand Canal Shoppes, and the ability of
    GGP to perform under the Phase II Mall purchase and sale
    agreement, as amended;

•

new developments, construction and ventures, including our Cotai
    Strip developments, Marina Bay Sands, Sands Bethlehem and the
    St. Regis Residences;

•

the passage of new legislation and receipt of governmental
    approvals for our proposed developments in Macao, Singapore and
    other jurisdictions where we are planning to operate;

•

our insurance coverage, including the risk that we have not
    obtained sufficient coverage against acts of terrorism or will
    only be able to obtain additional coverage at significantly
    increased rates;

•

disruptions or reductions in travel due to conflicts in Iraq and
    any future terrorist incidents;

•

outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as severe acute
    respiratory syndrome or avian flu, in our market areas;

•

government regulation of the casino industry, including gaming
    license regulation, the legalization of gaming in certain
    domestic jurisdictions, including Native American reservations,
    and regulation of gaming on the Internet;

•

increased competition and additional construction in Las Vegas,
    including recent and upcoming increases in hotel rooms, meeting
    and convention space and retail space;

•

fluctuations in the demand for all-suites rooms, occupancy rates
    and average daily room rates in Las Vegas;

•

the popularity of Las Vegas and Macao as convention and trade
    show destinations;



•

new taxes or changes to existing tax rates;

•

our ability to maintain our Macao gaming subconcession and
    Singapore gaming concession;

•

the completion of infrastructure projects in Macao and Singapore;

•

increased competition and other planned construction projects in
    Macao and Singapore; and

•

the outcome of any ongoing and future litigation.

All future written and verbal forward-looking statements
    attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are
    expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary
    statements contained or referred to in this section. New risks
    and uncertainties arise from time to time, and it is impossible
    for us to predict these events or how they may affect us.
    Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update
    any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as
    a result of new information, future events or developments,
    except as required by federal securities laws.

Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America requires our management to make
    estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
    assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These
    estimates and judgments are based on historical information,
    information that is currently available to us and on various
    other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable
    under the circumstances. Actual results could vary from those
    estimates and we may change our estimates and assumptions in
    future evaluations. Changes in these estimates and assumptions
    may have a material effect on our results of operations and
    financial condition. We believe that the critical accounting
    policies discussed below affect our more significant judgments
    and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated
    financial statements.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Casino Accounts

We maintain an allowance, or reserve, for doubtful casino
    accounts at our operating casino resorts in Las Vegas and Macao.
    We regularly evaluate the allowance for doubtful casino
    accounts. We specifically analyze the collectability of each
    account with a balance over a specified dollar amount, based
    upon the age of the account, the customer’s financial
    condition, collection history and any other known information,
    and we apply standard reserve percentages to aged account
    balances under the specified dollar amount. We also monitor
    regional and global economic conditions and forecasts in our
    evaluation of the adequacy of the recorded reserves. Credit or
    marker play is significant at our Las Vegas properties as credit
    table games play represented approximately 57.6% of total table
    games play. In Macao, where table games play is primarily cash
    play, credit table games play represented approximately 23.7% of
    total Macao table games play; however, this percentage is
    expected to increase as we increase the credit extended to our
    junkets. Our allowance for doubtful casino accounts was 24.6%
    and 26.5% of gross casino receivables from customers for the
    years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As
    the credit extended to our junkets can be offset by the
    commissions payable to said junkets, the allowance for doubtful
    accounts related to receivables from junkets is not material.
    Our allowance for doubtful accounts from our hotel and other
    receivables is also not material.

Self-Insurance
    Accruals

We maintain accruals for health and workers compensation
    self-insurance, which are classified in other accrued
    liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. We determine the
    adequacy of these accruals by periodically evaluating the
    historical experience and projected trends related to these
    accruals and in consultation with outside actuarial experts. If
    such information indicates that the accruals are overstated or
    understated, or if business conditions indicate we should adjust
    the assumptions utilized, we will reduce or provide for
    additional accruals as appropriate.



Litigation
    Accrual

We are subject to various claims and legal actions. We estimate
    the accruals for these claims and legal actions in accordance
    with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    (“SFAS”) No. 5, “Accounting for
    Contingencies,” and include such accruals in other accrued
    liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.

Property
    and Equipment

At December 31, 2008, we had net property and equipment of
    $11.87 billion, representing 69.2% of our total assets. We
    depreciate property and equipment on a straight-line basis over
    their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are
    based on the nature of the assets as well as current operating
    strategy and legal considerations such as contractual life.
    Future events, such as property expansions, property
    developments, new competition, or new regulations, could result
    in a change in the manner in which we use certain assets
    requiring a change in the estimated useful lives of such assets.

For assets to be held and used, fixed assets are reviewed for
    impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. If an
    indicator of impairment exists, we first group our assets with
    other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which
    identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash
    flows of other assets and liabilities (the “asset
    group”). Secondly, we estimate the undiscounted future cash
    flows that are directly associated with and expected to arise
    from the use of and eventual disposition of such asset group. We
    estimate the undiscounted cash flows over the remaining useful
    life of the primary asset within the asset group. If the
    undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value, no impairment
    is indicated. If the undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the
    carrying value, then an impairment is measured based on fair
    value compared to carrying value, with fair value typically
    based on a discounted cash flow model. If an asset is still
    under development, future cash flows include remaining
    construction costs.

For assets to be held for sale, the fixed assets (the
    “disposal group”) are measured at the lower of their
    carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Losses are
    recognized for any initial or subsequent write-down to fair
    value less cost to sell, while gains are recognized for any
    subsequent increase in fair value less cost to sell, but not in
    excess of the cumulative loss previously recognized. Any gains
    or losses not previously recognized that results from the sale
    of the disposal group shall be recognized at the date of sale.
    Fixed assets are not depreciated while classified as held for
    sale.

Capitalized
    Interest

Interest costs associated with our major construction projects
    are capitalized and included in the cost of the projects. When
    no debt is incurred specifically for construction projects, we
    capitalize interest on amounts expended using the
    weighted-average cost of our outstanding borrowings.
    Capitalization of interest ceases when the project is
    substantially complete or construction activity is suspended for
    more than a brief period.

Leasehold
    Interests in Land

Leasehold interests in land represent payments made for the use
    of land over an extended period of time. The leasehold interests
    in land are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected
    term of the related lease agreements. Such assets are not
    considered qualifying assets for purposes of capitalizing
    interest and as such, are not included in the base used to
    determine capitalized interest.

Indefinite
    Useful Life Assets

At December 31, 2008, we had a $50.0 million asset
    related to our Sands Bethlehem gaming license, which was
    determined to have an indefinite useful life. Assets with
    indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortization and are
    tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or
    circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. The
    impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of
    the asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of
    the asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment will be
    recognized in an amount equal to that excess. If the carrying
    amount of the asset does not exceed the fair value, no
    impairment is recognized.



Stock-Based
    Compensation

SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,”
    requires the recognition of compensation expense in the
    consolidated statements of operations related to the fair value
    of employee stock-based compensation. Determining the fair value
    of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment,
    including estimating the expected term that stock options will
    be outstanding prior to exercise, the associated volatility and
    the expected dividends. Expected volatilities are based on a
    combination of our historical volatility and the historical
    volatilities from a selection of companies from our peer group
    due to our lack of historical information. We used the
    simplified method for estimating expected option life, as the
    options qualify as “plain-vanilla” options and we will
    continue to use the simplified method beyond December 31,
    2008, due to the lack of historical information as allowed under
    Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 110, “Share-Based
    Payment.” We believe that the valuation technique and the
    approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are
    appropriate in calculating the fair values of our stock options
    granted. Judgment is also required in estimating the amount of
    stock-based awards expected to be forfeited prior to vesting. If
    actual forfeitures differ significantly from these estimates,
    stock-based compensation expense could be materially impacted.
    All employee stock options were granted with an exercise price
    equal to the fair market value (as defined in the Company’s
    2004 Equity Award Plan). During the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, we recorded stock-based
    compensation expense of $53.9 million and
    $33.2 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008,
    there was $154.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost,
    net of estimated forfeitures of 8.0% per year, related to
    unvested stock options and there was $2.7 million of
    unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted
    stock. The stock option and restricted stock costs are expected
    to be recognized over a weighted average period of
    3.3 years and 1.5 years, respectively.

Income
    Taxes

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (including
    federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions in which
    we operate. We record income taxes under the asset and liability
    method, whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are
    recognized based on the future tax consequences attributable to
    temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
    amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective
    tax bases, and attributable to operating loss and tax credit
    carryforwards. SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for
    Income Taxes,” requires a reduction of the carrying amounts
    of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance, if based on the
    available evidence, it is more likely than not that such assets
    will not be realized. Accordingly, the need to establish
    valuation allowances for deferred tax assets is assessed
    periodically based on the SFAS No. 109
    more-likely-than-not realization threshold. This assessment
    considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency and
    severity of current and cumulative losses, forecasts of future
    profitability, the duration of statutory carryforward periods,
    our experience with operating loss and tax credit carryforwards
    not expiring unused, and tax planning alternatives.

As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, our net deferred tax
    asset was $67.2 million and $30.9 million,
    respectively, and it appears more likely than not that our net
    deferred tax asset will be realized through future taxable
    earnings. If our operating results are less than currently
    projected and there is no objectively verifiable evidence to
    support the realization of our deferred tax asset, a valuation
    allowance may be required to reduce some or all of this deferred
    tax asset. The reduction of the deferred tax asset could
    increase our income tax expense and have an adverse effect on
    our results of operations and tangible net worth in the period
    in which the allowance is recorded. As of December 31,
    2008, no valuation allowance has been established for our
    U.S. deferred tax asset; however, we will continue to
    assess the need for an allowance in future periods.

Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions
    and determining our provision for income taxes. During the
    ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and
    calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is
    uncertain. Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted the
    provisions of FIN No. 48, which provides a two-step
    approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions
    accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The
    first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by
    determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is
    more likely than not that the position will be sustained on
    audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation
    processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit
    as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely, based
    solely on the technical merits, of being sustained on
    examinations. We consider many factors when evaluating and
    estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require
    periodic adjustments and which may not accurately anticipate
    actual outcomes.



The Company’s major tax jurisdictions are the U.S., Macao,
    and Singapore. In the U.S., the Company is under examination for
    years after 2004. In Macao and Singapore, the Company is subject
    to examination for years after 2003.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

See related disclosure at “Item 8 —
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements —
    Note 2 — Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies.”

ITEM 7A. —

QUANTITATIVE
    AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in
    market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign
    currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Our primary
    exposure to market risk is interest rate risk associated with
    our long-term debt. We attempt to manage our interest rate risk
    by managing the mix of our long-term fixed-rate borrowings and
    variable-rate borrowings, and by use of interest rate cap
    agreements. The ability to enter into interest rate cap
    agreements allows us to manage our interest rate risk associated
    with our variable-rate debt. We do not hold or issue financial
    instruments for trading purposes and do not enter into
    derivative transactions that would be considered speculative
    positions. Our derivative financial instruments consist
    exclusively of interest rate cap agreements, which do not
    qualify for hedge accounting. Interest differentials resulting
    from these agreements are recorded on an accrual basis as an
    adjustment to interest expense.

To manage exposure to counterparty credit risk in interest rate
    cap agreements, we enter into agreements with highly rated
    institutions that can be expected to fully perform under the
    terms of such agreements. Frequently, these institutions are
    also members of the bank group providing our credit facilities,
    which management believes further minimizes the risk of
    nonperformance.

The table below provides information about our financial
    instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For
    debt obligations, the table presents notional amounts and
    weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates.
    Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments
    to be exchanged under the contract. Weighted average variable
    rates are based on December 31, 2008, LIBOR, HIBOR and
    Singapore Swap Offer rates plus the applicable interest rate
    spread in accordance with the respective debt agreements. The
    information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which
    is the Company’s reporting currency, for the years ending
    December 31:

Fair






Thereafter

Total

Value

(1)

(In millions)

LIABILITIES

Long term debt

Fixed rate

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

250.0

$

250.0

$

137.6

Average interest
    rate

(2)

—

%

—

%

—

%

—

%

—

%

6.4

%

6.4

%

19.1

%

Variable rate

$

114.6

$

197.6

$

1,592.7

$

2,414.6

$

1,667.7

$

4,234.9

$

10,222.1

$

6,173.8

Average interest
    rate

(2)

3.1

%

3.0

%

3.6

%

3.4

%

3.5

%

3.2

%

3.4

%

3.4

%

ASSETS

Cap
    Agreements

(3)

$

—

$

—

$

3.7

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

3.7

$

3.7

Borrowings under the $5.0 billion senior secured credit
    facility bear interest at our election, at either an adjusted
    Eurodollar rate or at an alternative base rate plus a credit
    spread. The revolving facility and term loans bear



interest at the alternative base rate plus 0.5% per annum or
    0.75% per annum, respectively, or at the adjusted Eurodollar
    rate plus 1.5% per annum or 1.75% per annum, respectively,
    subject to downward adjustments based upon our credit rating.
    Borrowings under the Macao credit facility bear interest at our
    election, at either an adjusted Eurodollar rate (or in the case
    of the local term loan, adjusted HIBOR) plus 2.25% per annum or
    at an alternative base rate plus 1.25% per annum, and are
    subject to a downward adjustment of 0.25% per annum from the
    beginning of the first interest period following the substantial
    completion of The Venetian Macao if certain maximum leverage
    ratios are satisfied. Borrowings under the Singapore permanent
    facility bear interest at the Singapore Swap Offer Rate plus a
    spread of 2.25% per annum. Borrowings under the airplane
    financings bear interest at LIBOR plus approximately 1.5% per
    annum. Borrowings under the ferry financing bear interest at
    HIBOR plus 2.0% per annum if borrowings are made in Hong Kong
    dollars or LIBOR plus 2.0% per annum if borrowings are made in
    U.S. dollars. All borrowings under the ferry financing were
    made in Hong Kong dollars as of December 31, 2008.

Foreign currency transaction gains for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, were $26.4 million primarily due to
    U.S. denominated debt held in Macao. We may be vulnerable
    to changes in the U.S. dollar/pataca exchange rate. Based
    on balances as of December 31, 2008, an assumed 1% change
    in the U.S. dollar/pataca exchange rate would cause a
    foreign currency transaction gain/loss of approximately
    $41.4 million. We do not hedge our exposure to foreign
    currencies; however, we maintain a significant amount of our
    operating funds in the same currencies in which we have
    obligations thereby reducing our exposure to currency
    fluctuations.

See also “— Liquidity and Capital Resources”
    and “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt.”


ITEM 8. —

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Financial Statements:

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm


Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31,
    2008 and 2007


Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
    Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2008


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial Statement Schedule:

Schedule II — Valuation and
    Qualifying Accounts


The financial information included in the financial statement
    schedule should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
    financial statements. All other financial statement schedules
    have been omitted because they are not applicable or the
    required information is included in the consolidated financial
    statements or the notes thereto.



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Directors and Stockholders of Las Vegas Sands Corp.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the accompanying index, present fairly, in all material
    respects, the financial position of Las Vegas Sands Corp. and
    its subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the
    results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
    three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the
    financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index
    presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
    forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
    consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the
    Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008,
    based on criteria established in

Internal Control —
    Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company’s management is responsible for these financial
    statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting, included in Management’s Annual Report
    on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under
    Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these
    financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and
    on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
    based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
    plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about
    whether the financial statements are free of material
    misstatement and whether effective internal control over
    financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
    audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test
    basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
    financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
    and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
    control over financial reporting included obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
    and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
    included performing such other procedures as we considered
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts
    for income tax uncertainties in 2007 and the manner in which it
    accounts for stock-based compensation in 2006.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers
    LLP

Las Vegas, Nevada

February 26, 2009



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated
    Balance Sheets

December 31,



(In thousands,

except share data)

ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

3,038,163

$

857,150

Restricted cash

194,816

232,944

Accounts receivable, net

384,819

187,195

Inventories

28,837

19,902

Deferred income taxes

22,971

32,471

Prepaid expenses and other

71,670

49,424

Total current assets

3,741,276

1,379,086

Property and equipment, net

11,868,228

8,574,614

Deferred financing costs, net

158,776

107,338

Restricted cash

—

178,824

Deferred income taxes

44,189

—

Leasehold interests in land, net

1,099,938

1,069,609

Other assets, net

231,706

157,046

Total assets

$

17,144,113

$

11,466,517

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

71,035

$

99,023

Construction payables

736,713

717,541

Accrued interest payable

14,750

11,465

Other accrued liabilities

593,295

610,911

Current maturities of long-term debt

114,623

54,333

Total current liabilities

1,530,416

1,493,273

Other long-term liabilities

64,750

28,674

Deferred income taxes

—

1,553

Deferred proceeds from sale of The Shoppes at The Palazzo

243,928

—

Deferred gain on sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes

57,736

61,200

Deferred rent from mall transactions

150,771

103,546

Long-term debt

10,356,115

7,517,997

Total liabilities

12,403,716

9,206,243

Preferred stock, $0.001 par value, issued to Principal
    Stockholder’s family, 5,250,000 and no shares issued and
    outstanding, after allocation of fair value of attached
    warrants, aggregate redemption/liquidation value of $577,500,000
    (Note 9)

318,289

—

Commitments and contingencies (Note 13)

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $0.001 par value, 50,000,000 shares
    authorized, 5,196,300 and no shares issued and outstanding with
    warrants to purchase up to 86,605,173 and no shares of common
    stock

298,066

—

Common stock, $0.001 par value, 1,000,000,000 shares
    authorized, 641,839,018 and 355,271,070 shares issued and
    outstanding



Capital in excess of par value

3,090,292

1,064,878

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

17,554

(2,493

)

Retained earnings

1,015,554

1,197,534

Total stockholders’ equity

4,422,108

2,260,274

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

17,144,113

$

11,466,517

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated
    Statements of Operations

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands, except share and per share data)

Revenues:

Casino

$

3,192,099

$

2,250,421

$

1,676,061

Rooms

767,129

437,357

350,606

Food and beverage

369,062

238,252

187,819

Convention, retail and other

406,836

178,392

125,692

4,735,126

3,104,422

2,340,178

Less — promotional allowances

(345,180

)

(153,855

)

(103,319

)

Net revenues

4,389,946

2,950,567

2,236,859

Operating expenses:

Casino

2,214,235

1,435,662

925,033

Rooms

154,615

94,219

85,651

Food and beverage

186,551

118,273

89,113

Convention, retail and other

213,351

97,689

64,315

Provision for doubtful accounts

41,865

26,369

18,067

General and administrative

550,529

319,357

230,355

Corporate expense

104,355

94,514

59,570

Rental expense

33,540

31,787

13,478

Pre-opening expense

162,322

189,280

37,673

Development expense

12,789

9,728

26,112

Depreciation and amortization

506,986

202,557

110,771

Impairment loss

37,568

—

—

Loss on disposal of assets

7,577

1,122

2,624

4,226,283

2,620,557

1,662,762

Operating income

163,663

330,010

574,097

Other income (expense):

Interest income

19,786

72,464

66,191

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized

(421,825

)

(244,808

)

(135,853

)

Other income (expense)

19,492

(8,682

)

(189

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

(9,141

)

(10,705

)

—

Income (loss) before income taxes and noncontrolling interest

(228,025

)

138,279

504,246

Benefit (provision) for income taxes

59,700

(21,591

)

(62,243

)

Noncontrolling interest

4,767

—

—

Net income (loss)

(163,558

)

116,688

442,003

Accumulated but undeclared dividend requirement on preferred
    stock

(6,784

)

—

—

Accumulated but undeclared dividend requirement on preferred
    stock issued to Principal Stockholder’s family

(6,854

)

—

—

Accretion to redemption value of preferred stock issued to
    Principal Stockholder’s family

(11,568

)

—

—

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

(188,764

)

$

116,688

$

442,003

Basic earnings (loss) per share

$

(0.48

)

$

0.33

$

1.25

Diluted earnings (loss) per share

$

(0.48

)

$

0.33

$

1.24

Weighted average shares outstanding:

Basic

392,131,375

354,807,700

354,277,941

Diluted

392,131,375

355,789,619

355,264,444

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated
    Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income
    (Loss)

Accumulated

Preferred Stock

Common Stock

Capital

Other

Number

Number

in Excess

Comprehensive

of

of

of Par

Deferred

Income

Retained

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Value

Compensation

(Loss)

Earnings

Total

(In thousands, except share data)

Balance at January 1, 2006

—

$

—

354,179,580

$


$

964,660

$

(150

)

$

1,726

$

642,948

$

1,609,538

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

442,003

442,003

Currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

(2,306

)

—

(2,306

)

Total comprehensive income

439,697

Exercise of stock options

—

—

240,912

—

7,226

—

—

—

7,226

Tax benefit from stock-based compensation

—

—

—

—

1,876

—

—

—

1,876

Stock-based compensation

—

—

—

—

16,667


—

—

16,817

Issuance of restricted stock

—

—

71,960

—

—

—

—

—

—

Balance at December 31, 2006

—

—

354,492,452


990,429

—

(580

)

1,084,951

2,075,154

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

116,688

116,688

Currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1,913

)

—

(1,913

)

Total comprehensive income

114,775

Exercise of stock options

—

—

727,692


30,221

—

—

—

30,222

Tax benefit from stock-based compensation

—

—

—

—

7,526

—

—

—

7,526

Stock-based compensation

—

—

—

—

36,702

—

—

—

36,702

Issuance of restricted stock

—

—

50,926

—

—

—

—

—

—

Cumulative effect from adoption of FIN No. 48

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(4,105

)

(4,105

)

Balance at December 31, 2007

—

—

355,271,070


1,064,878

—

(2,493

)

1,197,534

2,260,274

Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(163,558

)

(163,558

)

Currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

20,047

—

20,047

Total comprehensive loss

(143,511

)

Exercise of stock options

—

—

181,862


6,833

—

—

—

6,834

Tax benefit from stock-based compensation

—

—

—

—

1,117

—

—

—

1,117

Stock-based compensation

—

—

—

—

59,643

—

—

—

59,643

Issuance of restricted stock

—

—

26,657

—

—

—

—

—

—

Forfeiture of unvested restricted stock

—

—

(4,207

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

Issuance of preferred and common stock and warrants, net of
    transaction costs

5,196,300

298,066

200,000,000


1,482,907

—

—

—

1,781,173

Extinguishment of convertible senior notes

—

—

86,363,636


474,914

—

—

—

475,000

Accumulated but undeclared dividend requirement on preferred
    stock issued to Principal Stockholder’s family

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(6,854

)

(6,854

)

Accretion to redemption value of preferred stock issued to
    Principal Stockholder’s family

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(11,568

)

(11,568

)

Balance at December 31, 2008

5,196,300

$

298,066

641,839,018

$


$

3,090,292

$

—

$

17,554

$

1,015,554

$

4,422,108

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income (loss)

$

(163,558

)

$

116,688

$

442,003

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided
    by (used in) operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

506,986

202,557

110,771

Amortization of leasehold interests in land included in rental
    expense

26,165

23,439


Amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue
    discount

32,844

26,786

13,894

Amortization of deferred gain and rent

(5,082

)

(4,692

)

(4,690

)

Deferred rent from mall transaction (Note 12)

48,843

—

—

Loss on early retirement of debt

9,141

10,705

—

Impairment and loss on disposal of assets

45,145

1,122

2,624

Stock-based compensation expense

53,854

33,224

14,728

Provision for doubtful accounts

41,865

26,369

18,067

Foreign exchange (gain) loss

(28,548

)

5,317

—

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation

(1,112

)

(7,112

)

(1,401

)

Deferred income taxes

(36,242

)

(15,554

)

3,914

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Accounts receivable

(238,425

)

(39,881

)

(106,972

)

Inventories

(8,879

)

(7,611

)

(2,324

)

Prepaid expenses and other

(95,744

)

(115,303

)

(13,933

)

Leasehold interests in land

(50,156

)

(235,235

)

(786,700

)

Accounts payable

(28,228

)

47,985

16,235

Accrued interest payable

3,260

2,969


Income taxes payable

—

(12,825

)

22,228

Other accrued liabilities

15,657

306,509

73,449

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

127,786

365,457

(196,720

)

Cash flows from investing activities:

Change in restricted cash

218,044

556,276

(310,565

)

Capital expenditures

(3,789,008

)

(3,793,703

)

(1,925,291

)

Acquisition of gaming license included in other assets

—

(50,000

)

—

Net cash used in investing activities

(3,570,964

)

(3,287,427

)

(2,235,856

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

6,834

30,221

7,226

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation

1,112

7,112

1,401

Proceeds from common stock issued, net of transaction costs

1,053,695

—

—

Proceeds from preferred stock and warrants issued to Principal
    Stockholder’s family, net of transaction costs

523,720

—

—

Proceeds from preferred stock and warrants issued, net of
    transaction costs

503,625

—

—

Proceeds from convertible senior notes from Principal
    Stockholder’s family

475,000

—

—

Proceeds from long-term debt (Note 8)

4,616,201

5,135,076

2,619,995

Repayments of long-term debt (Note 8)

(1,725,908

)

(1,775,801

)

(132,746

)

Proceeds from sale of the Shoppes at The Palazzo (Note 12)

243,928

—

—

Payments of deferred financing costs

(92,968

)

(73,743

)

(52,894

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

5,605,239

3,322,865

2,442,982

Effect of exchange rate on cash

18,952

(11,811

)


Increase in cash and cash equivalents

2,181,013

389,084

11,220

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

857,150

468,066

456,846

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

3,038,163

$

857,150

$

468,066

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:

Cash payments for interest

$

516,912

$

438,301

$

215,975

Cash payments for taxes, net of refunds

$

(15,542

)

$

60,000

$

34,750

Non-cash investing and financing activities:

Changes in construction payables

$

19,172

$

388,166

$

165,443

Accumulated but undeclared dividend requirement on preferred
    stock issued to Principal Stockholder’s family

$

6,854

$

—

$

—

Accretion to redemption value of preferred stock issued to
    Principal Stockholder’s family

$

11,568

$

—

$

—

Extinguishment of convertible senior notes from Principal
    Stockholder’s family

$

475,000

$

—

$

—

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 —

Organization
    and Business of Company

Las Vegas Sands Corp. (“LVSC” or together with its
    subsidiaries, the “Company”) was incorporated in
    Nevada during August 2004 and completed an initial public
    offering of its common stock in December 2004. Immediately prior
    to the initial public offering, LVSC acquired 100% of the
    capital stock of Las Vegas Sands, Inc., which was converted into
    a Nevada limited liability company, Las Vegas Sands, LLC
    (“LVSLLC”) in July 2005. LVSC’s common stock is
    traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
    “LVS.”

Operations

The Company owns and operates The Venetian Resort Hotel Casino
    (“The Venetian Las Vegas”), a Renaissance
    Venice-themed resort; The Palazzo Resort Hotel Casino (“The
    Palazzo”), a resort featuring modern European ambience and
    design reminiscent of Italian affluent living; and an expo and
    convention center of approximately 1.2 million square feet
    (the “Sands Expo Center”). With the opening of The
    Palazzo in December 2007, these Las Vegas properties, situated
    on or near the Las Vegas Strip, form an integrated resort with
    approximately 7,100 suites; approximately 225,000 square
    feet of gaming space; a meeting and conference facility of
    approximately 1.1 million square feet; an enclosed retail,
    dining and entertainment complex located within The Venetian Las
    Vegas of approximately 440,000 net leasable square feet
    (“The Grand Canal Shoppes”), which was sold to General
    Growth Partners (“GGP”) in 2004; and an enclosed
    retail and dining complex located within The Palazzo of
    approximately 400,000 net leasable square feet (“The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo”), which was sold to GGP on
    February 29, 2008.

The Company also owns and operates the Sands Macao, the first
    Las Vegas-style casino in Macao, China, pursuant to a

20-year

gaming subconcession. The Sands Macao offers approximately
    229,000 square feet of gaming space and a 289-suite hotel
    tower, as well as several restaurants, VIP facilities, a
    theater, and other high-end services and amenities.

On August 28, 2007, the Company opened The Venetian Macao
    Resort Hotel (“The Venetian Macao”), which anchors the
    Cotai
    Strip

tm

,

    a master-planned development of resort properties in Macao,
    China. With a theme similar to that of The Venetian Las Vegas,
    The Venetian Macao includes a 39-floor luxury hotel with over
    2,900 suites; approximately 550,000 square feet of gaming
    space; a 15,000-seat arena; retail and dining space of
    approximately 1.0 million square feet; and a convention
    center and meeting room complex of approximately
    1.2 million square feet.

On August 28, 2008, the Company opened the Four Seasons
    Hotel Macao, Cotai
    Strip

tm

(the “Four Seasons Macao”), which is located adjacent
    to The Venetian Macao. The Four Seasons Macao features 360 rooms
    and suites managed by Four Seasons Hotels Inc.; approximately
    70,000 square feet of gaming space; several food and
    beverage offerings; conference and banquet facilities; and
    retail space of approximately 211,000 square feet, which is
    connected to the mall at The Venetian Macao. The property will
    also feature 19 Paiza mansions, which are currently expected to
    open in the second quarter of 2009, and the Four Seasons
    Apartments Macao, Cotai
    Strip

tm

(the “Four Seasons Apartments”), which consists of
    approximately 1.0 million square feet of Four
    Seasons-serviced and -branded luxury apartment hotel units and
    common areas. These units are intended for sale and are
    currently expected to open in the third quarter of 2009. As of
    December 31, 2008, the Company has capitalized construction
    costs of $873.4 million for this project (including
    $110.0 million of outstanding construction payables). The
    Company expects to spend approximately $360 million on
    costs to complete the Paiza mansions and Four Seasons
    Apartments, including FF&E, pre-opening costs and
    additional land premiums, and to pay outstanding construction
    payables.

Development
    Projects

Given current conditions in the capital markets and the global
    economy and their impact on the Company’s ongoing
    operations, on November 10, 2008, the Company announced its
    revised development plan to suspend portions of its development
    projects and focus its development efforts on those projects
    with the highest rates of



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

expected return on invested capital. Should general economic
    conditions not improve, if the Company is unable to obtain
    sufficient funding such that completion of its suspended
    projects is not probable, or should management decide to abandon
    certain projects, all or a portion of the Company’s
    investment to date on its suspended projects could be lost and
    would result in an impairment charge. In addition, the Company
    may be subject to penalties under the termination clauses in its
    construction contracts.

United
    States Development Projects

Sands
    Bethlehem

The Company is in the process of developing Sands Casino Resort
    Bethlehem (the “Sands Bethlehem”), a gaming, hotel,
    retail and dining complex located on the site of the historic
    Bethlehem Steel Works in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, which is
    approximately 70 miles from midtown Manhattan, New York.
    Sands Bethlehem is also expected to be home to the National
    Museum of Industrial History, an arts and cultural center, and
    the broadcast home of the local PBS affiliate. In August 2007,
    the Company’s indirect majority-owned subsidiary, Sands
    Bethworks Gaming LLC (“Sands Bethworks Gaming”), was
    issued a Pennsylvania gaming license by the Pennsylvania Gaming
    Control Board. The Company owns 86% of the economic interest of
    the gaming, hotel and entertainment portion of the property
    through its ownership interest in Sands Bethworks Gaming and
    more than 35% of the economic interest of the retail portion of
    the property through its ownership interest in Sands Bethworks
    Retail, LLC (“Sands Bethworks Retail”).

The Company is continuing construction of the casino component
    of the

124-acre

development, which will open with 3,000 slot machines (with the
    ability to increase to 5,000 slot machines six months after the
    opening date) and will include a variety of dining options, as
    well as the parking garage and surface parking. As part of the
    Company’s revised development plan, construction activities
    on the remaining components, which include a 300-room hotel, an
    approximate 200,000-square-foot retail facility, a
    50,000-square-foot multipurpose event center and a variety of
    additional dining options, have been temporarily suspended and
    are intended to recommence when capital markets and general
    economic conditions improve. As of December 31, 2008, the
    Company has capitalized construction costs of
    $417.8 million for this project (including
    $68.3 million of outstanding construction payables). The
    Company expects to spend approximately $360 million on
    additional costs to complete the construction of the casino and
    parking components, costs to prepare the remaining portion of
    the site for delay, FF&E (including the additional 2,000
    slot machines to be added six months after the opening date),
    pre-opening and other costs, and to pay outstanding construction
    payables. The Company expects to open the casino and parking
    components in the second quarter of 2009. The impact of the
    suspension on the estimated overall cost of the project’s
    remaining components is currently not determinable.

St. Regis
    Residences

The Company had been constructing a St. Regis-branded high-rise
    residential condominium tower, the St. Regis Residences at The
    Venetian Palazzo (the “St. Regis Residences”), which
    is situated between The Palazzo and The Venetian Las Vegas on
    the Las Vegas Strip and was expected to feature approximately
    400 luxury residences. As part of the Company’s revised
    development plan, it has suspended construction activities for
    the project due to reduced demand for Las Vegas Strip
    condominiums and the overall decline in general economic
    conditions. The Company intends to recommence construction when
    these conditions improve and expects that it will take
    approximately 18 months from when construction recommences
    to complete the project. As of December 31, 2008, the
    Company has capitalized construction costs of
    $173.0 million for this project (including
    $49.8 million in outstanding construction payables). The
    Company expects to spend approximately $60 million on
    additional costs to prepare the site for delay and to complete
    construction of the podium portion (which is part of The Shoppes
    at The Palazzo and includes already leased retail and
    entertainment space), and to pay outstanding construction
    payables. The impact of the suspension on the estimated overall
    cost of the project is currently not determinable.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Macao
    Development Projects

The Company has submitted plans to the Macao government for its
    Cotai Strip developments, which represent five integrated resort
    developments, in addition to The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons
    Macao on an area of approximately 200 acres (which are
    referred to as parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8). The developments were
    expected to include hotels, exhibition and conference
    facilities, casinos, showrooms, shopping malls, spas,
    restaurants, entertainment facilities and other amenities. The
    Company had commenced construction or pre-construction for these
    five parcels and planned to own and operate all of the casinos
    in these developments under the Company’s Macao gaming
    subconcession.

As part of its revised development plan, the Company has
    suspended construction of phase I of parcels 5 and 6, which
    includes a Shangri-La and Traders tower and one of two
    Sheraton towers, along with the podium that encompasses a
    casino, associated public areas, portions of the shopping mall
    and approximately 100,000 square feet of meeting space,
    while the Company pursues project-level financing; however,
    there can be no assurance that such financing will be obtained.
    If and when financing has been obtained, the Company expects it
    will take approximately twelve months to complete construction
    of phase I. Construction of phase II of the project, which
    includes the second Sheraton tower and a St. Regis hotel and
    serviced luxury apartment hotel, has been suspended until
    conditions in the capital markets and general economic
    conditions improve. As of December 31, 2008, the Company
    has capitalized construction costs of $1.65 billion for
    this project (including $152.6 million in outstanding
    construction payables). The Company expects to spend
    approximately $540 million on additional costs to prepare
    the site for delay and to pay outstanding construction payables.
    The impact of the revised development plan on the estimated
    overall cost of the project is currently not determinable. The
    Company had commenced pre-construction on parcels 7, 8 and 3 and
    has capitalized construction costs of $119.3 million for
    parcels 7 and 8 and $35.6 million for parcel 3 as of
    December 31, 2008. The Company intends to commence
    construction after necessary government approvals are obtained,
    regional and global economic conditions improve, future demand
    warrants it and additional financing is obtained.

The impact of the delayed construction of the Company’s
    Cotai Strip developments on its overall estimated cost to build
    is currently not determinable. As of December 31, 2008, the
    Company has capitalized an aggregate of $5.3 billion in
    costs for these Cotai Strip projects, including The Venetian
    Macao and Four Seasons Macao. The Company will need to arrange
    additional financing to fund the balance of its Cotai Strip
    developments and there is no assurance that the Company will be
    able to obtain any of the additional financing required.

The Company has received a land concession from the Macao
    government to build on parcels 1, 2 and 3, including the sites
    on which The Venetian Macao (parcel 1) and Four Seasons
    Macao (parcel 2) are located. The Company does not own
    these land sites in Macao; however, the land concession, which
    has an initial term of 25 years and is renewable at the
    Company’s option in accordance with Macao law, grants the
    Company exclusive use of the land. As specified in the land
    concession, the Company is required to pay premiums, which are
    either payable over four years or are due upon the completion of
    the corresponding integrated resort, as well as annual rent for
    the term of the land concession. In October 2008, the Macao
    government amended the Company’s land concession to
    separate the retail and hotel portions of the Four Seasons Macao
    parcel and allowed the Company to subdivide the parcel into four
    separate components, consisting of retail, hotel/casino, Four
    Seasons Apartments and parking areas. In consideration for the
    amendment, the Company paid an additional land premium of
    approximately $17.8 million and will pay adjusted annual
    rent over the remaining term of the concession, which increased
    slightly due to the revised allocation of parcel use.

The Company does not yet have all the necessary Macao government
    approvals that it will need in order to develop its planned
    Cotai Strip developments on parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8. The
    Company has received a land concession for parcel 3, as
    previously noted, but has not yet been granted land concessions
    for parcels 5, 6, 7 and 8. The Company is in the process of
    negotiating with the Macao government to obtain the land
    concession for parcels 5 and 6, and will subsequently negotiate
    the land concession for parcels 7 and 8. Based on historical
    experience with the Macao government with respect to the
    Company’s land concessions for the Sands Macao and parcels
    1, 2 and 3, management believes that the land concessions for
    parcels 5, 6, 7 and 8 will be granted; however, if the Company



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

does not obtain these land concessions, the Company could
    forfeit all or a substantial part of its $1.77 billion in
    capitalized costs related to its developments on parcels 5, 6, 7
    and 8 as of December 31, 2008.

Under the Company’s land concession for parcels 1, 2 and 3,
    the Company is required to complete the development of parcel 3
    by August 2011. The Company believes that if it is not able to
    complete the development of parcel 3 by the deadline, it will be
    able to obtain an extension; however, no assurances can be given
    that an extension will be granted by the Macao government. If
    the Company is unable to meet the August 2011 deadline and that
    deadline is not extended or the portion of the land concession
    related to parcel 3 is not separated from the portions
    related to parcels 1 and 2, it could lose its land concession
    for parcels 1, 2 and 3, which would prohibit the Company from
    continuing to operate The Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao or
    any other facilities developed under the land concession, and
    the Company could forfeit all or a substantial portion of its
    $3.53 billion in capitalized costs related to its
    developments on parcels 1, 2 and 3 as of December 31, 2008.

Singapore
    Development Project

In August 2006, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. (“MBS”), entered into a
    development agreement (the “Development Agreement”)
    with the Singapore Tourism Board (the “STB”) to build
    and operate an integrated resort called Marina Bay Sands in
    Singapore. Marina Bay Sands is expected to include three 50+
    story hotel towers (totaling approximately 2,600 rooms), a
    casino, an enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex of
    approximately 800,000 net leasable square feet, a
    convention center and meeting room complex of approximately
    1.3 million square feet, theaters and a landmark iconic
    structure at the bay-front promenade that will contain an
    art/science museum. The Company is continuing to finalize
    various design aspects of the integrated resort and is in the
    process of finalizing cost estimates for the project. As of
    December 31, 2008, the Company has capitalized
    3.24 billion Singapore dollars (“SGD,”
    approximately $2.25 billion at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008) in costs for this project,
    including the land premium and SGD 378.4 million
    (approximately $263.0 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2008) of outstanding construction
    payables. As of December 31, 2008, the Company expects to
    spend approximately SGD 4.7 billion (approximately
    $3.27 billion at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008) on additional costs to complete the
    construction of the integrated resort, FF&E, pre-opening
    and other costs, and to pay outstanding construction payables
    through 2011, of which approximately SGD 2.59 billion
    (approximately $1.80 billion at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008) is expected to be spent in 2009
    before the project opens. As the Company has obtained
    Singapore-denominated financing and primarily pay its costs in
    Singapore dollars, its exposure to foreign exchange gains and
    losses is expected to be minimal. Based on the Company’s
    current development plan, the Company intends to continue
    construction on its existing timeline with the majority of the
    project targeted to open in late 2009 or early 2010.

Hengqin
    Island Development Project

The Company has entered into a non-binding letter of intent with
    the Zhuhai Municipal People’s Government of China to work
    together to create a master plan for, and develop, a leisure and
    convention destination resort on Hengqin Island, which is
    located within mainland China, approximately one mile from the
    Cotai Strip. In January 2007, the Company was informed that the
    Zhuhai Government established a Project Coordination Committee
    to act as a government liaison empowered to work directly with
    the Company to advance the development of the project. Under the
    revised development plan, the Company has indefinitely suspended
    the project.

Other
    Development Projects

When the current economic environment and access to capital
    improve, the Company may continue exploring the possibility of
    developing and operating additional properties, including
    integrated resorts, in additional Asian and
    U.S. jurisdictions, and in Europe. In July 2008, the
    Company withdrew its previously submitted application to develop
    a casino resort in the Kansas City, Kansas, metropolitan area.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Development
    Financing Strategy

Through December 31, 2008, the Company has principally
    funded its development projects through borrowings under its
    U.S., Macao and Singapore bank credit facilities (see
    “— Note 8 — Long-Term Debt”),
    operating cash flows and proceeds from the disposition of
    non-core assets.

Commencing September 30, 2008, the U.S. senior secured
    credit facility and FF&E financings require the
    Company’s Las Vegas operations to comply with certain
    financial covenants at the end of each quarter, including
    maintaining a maximum leverage ratio of net debt, as defined, to
    trailing twelve-month adjusted earnings before interest, income
    taxes, depreciation and amortization, as defined (“Adjusted
    EBITDA”). The maximum leverage ratio decreases from 7.5x as
    of December 31, 2008, to 7.0x for the quarterly periods
    ending March 31 and June 30, 2009, and then to 6.5x for the
    quarterly periods ending September 30 and December 31,
    2009. In Macao, the Company’s credit facility also requires
    the Company to comply with similar financial covenants,
    including maintaining a maximum leverage ratio of debt to
    Adjusted EBITDA. The maximum leverage ratio decreases from 4.5x
    as of December 31, 2008, to 4.0x for the quarterly periods
    ending March 31 and June 30, 2009, and then to 3.5x for the
    quarterly periods ending September 30 and December 31,
    2009. If the Company is unable to maintain compliance with the
    financial covenants under these credit facilities, the Company
    would be in default under the respective credit facilities. A
    default under the Company’s domestic credit facilities
    would trigger a cross-default under the Company’s airplane
    financings, which, if the respective lenders chose to accelerate
    the indebtedness outstanding under these agreements, would
    result in a default under the Company’s senior notes. A
    default under the Company’s Macao credit facilities would
    trigger a cross-default under the Company’s ferry
    financings. Any defaults or cross-defaults under these
    agreements would allow the lenders, in each case, to exercise
    their rights and remedies as defined under their respective
    agreements. If the lenders were to exercise their rights to
    accelerate the due dates of the indebtedness outstanding, there
    can be no assurance that the Company would be able to pay or
    refinance any amounts that may become accelerated under such
    agreements, which could force the Company to restructure or
    alter its operations or debt obligations.

As the Company’s Las Vegas properties did not achieve the
    levels of Adjusted EBITDA necessary to maintain compliance with
    the maximum leverage ratio for the quarterly periods ended
    September 30 and December 31, 2008, the Company completed a
    private placement of $475.0 million in convertible senior
    notes in September 2008 and a $2.1 billion common and
    preferred stock and warrants offering in November 2008 (see
    “— Note 8 — Long-Term Debt”
    and “— Note 9 — Stockholders’
    Equity”, respectively). A portion of the proceeds from the
    convertible senior notes was used to exercise the EBITDA

true-up

provision (as defined below) for the quarterly period ended
    September 30, 2008, which, by itself, would not have been
    sufficient to maintain compliance with the maximum leverage
    ratio when applied to the quarterly periods ended September 30
    and December 31, 2008. Accordingly, additional proceeds
    from the offerings were contributed to LVSLLC to reduce the net
    debt of the parties to the domestic credit facilities in order
    to maintain compliance with the maximum leverage ratio for the
    quarterly periods ended September 30 and December 31, 2008.
    Adjusted EBITDA generated by the Company’s Macao operations
    was sufficient to maintain compliance with the respective
    maximum leverage ratio for the quarterly periods ended during
    2008.

In order to fund the Company’s revised development plan as
    discussed above and comply with the maximum leverage ratio
    covenants of its U.S. and Macao credit facilities for
    quarterly periods in 2009 and beyond, the Company will utilize
    cash on hand, cash flow from operations and available borrowings
    under its credit facilities. The Company will also need to
    execute on some, or a combination, of the following measures:
    (i) achieve increased levels of Adjusted EBITDA at its Las
    Vegas and Macao properties, primarily through aggressive
    cost-cutting measures; (ii) successfully complete the sale
    of certain non-core assets (e.g. Four Seasons Apartments or the
    malls at The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons Macao), a portion
    of the proceeds from which would be used to repay debt;
    (iii) elect to contribute up to $50 million and
    $20 million of cash on hand to the Las Vegas and Macao
    operations, respectively, on a bi-quarterly basis (such
    contributions having the effect of increasing Adjusted EBITDA by
    the corresponding amount during the applicable quarter for
    purposes of calculating maximum leverage



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

ratio (the “EBITDA

true-up”));

or (iv) execute a debt reduction plan. If the
    aforementioned measures are not sufficient to fund the
    Company’s revised development plan and maintain compliance
    with its financial covenants, the Company may also need to
    execute on some, or a combination, of the following measures:
    (i) further decrease the rate of spending on its global
    development projects; (ii) obtain additional financing at
    the parent company level, the proceeds from which could be used
    to reduce or repay debt in Las Vegas

and/or

Macao; (iii) consider other asset sales; (iv) elect to
    delay payment of dividends on its preferred stock; or
    (v) seek waivers or amendments under the Las Vegas or Macao
    credit facilities; however, there can be no assurance that the
    Company will be able to obtain such waivers or amendments.
    Management believes that successful execution of some
    combination of the above measures will be sufficient for the
    Company to fund its commitments and maintain compliance with its
    financial covenants throughout 2009.

Note 2 —

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles
    of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    the Company, its majority-owned subsidiaries and variable
    interest entities (“VIEs”) in which the Company is the
    primary beneficiary. The equity attributable to minority
    shareholders’ interests in subsidiaries is not material and
    is included in other long-term liabilities in the accompanying
    consolidated balance sheets. All significant intercompany
    balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Management’s determination of the appropriate accounting
    method with respect to the Company’s variable interests is
    based on Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
    Interpretation (“FIN”) No. 46R,
    “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities — an
    Interpretation of ARB No. 51.” The Company
    consolidates any VIEs in which it is the primary beneficiary and
    discloses significant variable interests in VIEs of which it is
    not the primary beneficiary, if any.

The Company has entered into various joint venture agreements
    with independent third parties; whereby these third parties will
    operate a variety of restaurants in The Venetian Las Vegas and
    The Palazzo. Due to the Company’s significant investment in
    these joint ventures, the operations of these restaurants have
    been consolidated by the Company in accordance with
    FIN No. 46R. The Company evaluates its investments in
    joint ventures to assess the appropriateness of their
    consolidation into the Company when events have occurred that
    would trigger such an analysis.

As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company’s
    restaurant joint ventures had total current assets of
    $5.5 million and $2.8 million, respectively, and fixed
    assets of $49.9 million and $12.2 million,
    respectively. The following is summarized results of operations
    data for these consolidated joint ventures for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Net revenues

$

51,847

$

21,677

$

11,614

Operating expenses

51,527

19,175

10,333

Pre-opening expense

3,463

2,980

—

Depreciation and amortization

5,492

1,145


Operating income (loss)

(8,635

)

(1,623

)


Interest expense, net

(429

)

(414

)

(467

)

Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interest

$

(9,064

)

$

(2,037

)

$




LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Use of
    Estimates

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America requires the Company to make estimates
    and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of
    contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and judgments
    are based on historical information, information that is
    currently available to the Company and on various other
    assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the
    circumstances. Actual results could vary from those estimates.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term
    investments with original maturities of less than 90 days.
    Such investments are carried at cost, which is equivalent to
    their fair value. Cash equivalents are placed with high credit
    quality financial institutions and are primarily in money market
    funds.

Accounts
    Receivable and Credit Risk

Accounts receivable are comprised of casino, hotel and other
    receivables, which do not bear interest and are recorded at
    cost. The Company extends credit to approved casino customers
    following background checks and investigations of
    creditworthiness. The Company has recently begun extending
    credit to its junkets in Macao, which receivable can be offset
    against commissions payable to the respective junkets. Business
    or economic conditions, the legal enforceability of gaming
    debts, or other significant events in foreign countries could
    affect the collectability of receivables from customers and
    junkets residing in these countries.

The allowance for doubtful accounts represents the
    Company’s best estimate of the amount of probable credit
    losses in the Company’s existing accounts receivable. The
    Company determines the allowance based on specific customer
    information, historical write-off experience and current
    industry and economic data. Account balances are charged off
    against the allowance when the Company believes it is probable
    the receivable will not be recovered. Management believes that
    there are no concentrations of credit risk for which an
    allowance has not been established. Although management believes
    that the allowance is adequate, it is possible that the
    estimated amount of cash collections with respect to accounts
    receivable could change.

Inventories

Inventories consist primarily of food, beverage and retail
    products, and operating supplies, which are stated at the lower
    of cost or market. Cost is determined by the

first-in,

first-out and specific identification methods.

Property
    and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at the lower of cost or fair
    value. Depreciation and amortization are provided on a
    straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
    assets, which do not exceed the lease term for leasehold
    improvements, as follows:

Land improvements, building and building improvements

15 to 40 years

Furniture, fixtures and equipment

3 to 15 years

Leasehold improvements

5 to 10 years

Transportation

20 years

Maintenance and repairs that neither materially add to the value
    of the asset nor appreciably prolong its life are charged to
    expense as incurred. Gains or losses on disposition of property
    and equipment are included in the consolidated statements of
    operations.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company evaluates its property and equipment and other
    long-lived assets for impairment in accordance with Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144,
    “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
    Assets.” For assets to be disposed of, the Company
    recognizes the asset to be sold at the lower of carrying value
    or fair value less costs of disposal. Fair value for assets to
    be disposed of is estimated based on comparable asset sales,
    solicited offers or a discounted cash flow model.

For assets to be held and used, fixed assets are reviewed for
    impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. If an
    indicator of impairment exists, the Company first groups its
    assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for
    which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the
    cash flows of other assets and liabilities (the “asset
    group”). Secondly, the Company estimates the undiscounted
    future cash flows that are directly associated with and expected
    to arise from the use and eventual disposition of such asset
    group. The Company estimates the undiscounted cash flows over
    the remaining useful life of the primary asset within the asset
    group. If the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value,
    no impairment is indicated. If the undiscounted cash flows do
    not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is measured
    based on fair value compared to carrying value, with fair value
    typically based on a discounted cash flow model. If an asset is
    still under development, future cash flows include remaining
    construction costs.

For assets to be held for sale, the fixed assets (the
    “disposal group”) are measured at the lower of their
    carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Losses are
    recognized for any initial or subsequent write-down to fair
    value less cost to sell, while gains are recognized for any
    subsequent increase in fair value less cost to sell, but not in
    excess of the cumulative loss previously recognized. Any gains
    or losses not previously recognized that results from the sale
    of the disposal group shall be recognized at the date of sale.
    Fixed assets are not depreciated while classified as held for
    sale.

With the Company’s recent suspension of certain of its
    development projects and due to the difficult global economic
    and credit market environment, the Company tested its assets for
    impairment as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31,
    2008, the Company recognized an impairment loss of
    $37.6 million, primarily related to certain real estate and
    transportation assets that were previously utilized in
    connection with marketing activities in Asia.

Capitalized
    Interest

Interest costs associated with major construction projects are
    capitalized and included in the cost of the projects. When no
    debt is incurred specifically for construction projects,
    interest is capitalized on amounts expended using the
    weighted-average cost of the Company’s outstanding
    borrowings. Capitalization of interest ceases when the project
    is substantially complete or construction activity is suspended
    for more than a brief period. During the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company capitalized
    interest expense of $131.2 million, $223.2 million and
    $94.6 million, respectively.

Deferred
    Financing Costs and Original Issue Discounts

Deferred financing costs and original issue discounts are
    amortized to interest expense based on the terms of the related
    debt instruments using the effective interest method.

Leasehold
    Interests in Land

Leasehold interests in land represent payments made for the use
    of land over an extended period of time. The leasehold interests
    in land are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected
    term of the related lease agreements. Such assets are not
    considered qualifying assets for purposes of capitalizing
    interest and as such, are not included in the base used to
    determine capitalized interest.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Indefinite
    Useful Life Assets

Assets with indefinite useful lives are not subject to
    amortization and are tested for impairment annually or more
    frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the assets
    might be impaired. The impairment test consists of a comparison
    of the fair value of the asset with its carrying amount. If the
    carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value, an
    impairment will be recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
    If the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed the fair
    value, no impairment is recognized. At December 31, 2008
    and 2007, the Company had a $50.0 million asset related to
    its Sands Bethlehem gaming license, which was determined to have
    an indefinite useful life and has been recorded as other
    long-term assets in the accompanying consolidated balance
    sheets. No impairment charges related to this asset were
    recorded for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Revenue
    Recognition and Promotional Allowances

Casino revenue is the aggregate of gaming wins and losses. Cash
    discounts, commissions and other cash incentives to customers
    related to gaming play are recorded as a reduction of gross
    casino revenues. Hotel revenue recognition criteria are met at
    the time of occupancy. Food and beverage revenue recognition
    criteria are met at the time of service. Deposits for future
    hotel occupancy or food and beverage services contracts are
    recorded as deferred income until revenue recognition criteria
    are met. Cancellation fees for hotel and food and beverage
    services are recognized upon cancellation by the customer.
    Convention revenues are recognized when the related service is
    rendered or the event is held. Minimum rental revenues, adjusted
    for contractual base rent escalations, are included in
    convention, retail and other revenue and are recognized on a
    straight-line basis over the terms of the related lease.

In accordance with industry practice, the retail value of
    accommodations, food and beverage, and other services furnished
    to the Company’s guests without charge is included in gross
    revenue and then deducted as promotional allowances. The
    estimated retail value of such promotional allowances is
    included in operating revenues as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Rooms

$

186,704

$

71,908

$

48,005

Food and beverage

101,084

63,805

44,768

Convention, retail and other

57,392

18,142

10,546

$

345,180

$

153,855

$

103,319

The estimated departmental cost of providing such promotional
    allowances is included primarily in casino operating expenses as
    follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Rooms

$

44,158

$

15,864

$

11,505

Food and beverage

70,988

40,622

29,302

Convention, retail and other

42,573

18,325

5,040

$

157,719

$

74,811

$

45,847

Frequent
    Players Program

The Company has established promotional clubs to encourage
    repeat business from frequent and active slot machine customers
    and table games patrons. Members earn points based on gaming
    activity and such points can be redeemed for cash, free play and
    other free goods and services. The Company accrues for club
    points expected to be redeemed for cash and free play as a
    reduction to gaming revenue and accrues for club points expected
    to be



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

redeemed for free goods and services as casino expense. The
    accruals are based on estimates and assumptions regarding the
    mix of cash, free play and other free goods and services that
    will be redeemed and the costs of providing those benefits.
    Historical data is used to assist in the determination of the
    estimated accruals.

Pre-Opening
    and Development Expenses

The Company accounts for costs incurred in the development and
    pre-opening phases of new ventures in accordance with Statement
    of Position

No. 98-5,

“Reporting on the Costs of

Start-Up

Activities.” Pre-opening expenses represent personnel and
    other costs incurred prior to the opening of new ventures and
    are expensed as incurred. Development expenses include the costs
    associated with the Company’s evaluation and pursuit of new
    business opportunities, which are also expensed as incurred.

Advertising
    Costs

Costs for advertising are expensed the first time the
    advertising takes place or as incurred. Advertising costs
    included in the accompanying consolidated statement of
    operations are $48.2 million, $34.9 million and
    $6.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

Corporate
    Expenses

Corporate expense represents payroll, travel, professional fees
    and various other expenses not allocated or directly related to
    the Company’s integrated resort operations.

Foreign
    Currency

The Company accounts for currency translation in accordance with
    SFAS No. 52, “Foreign Currency Translation.”
    Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurements are
    included in other income (expense). Balance sheet accounts are
    translated at the exchange rate in effect at each balance sheet
    date and income statement accounts are translated at the average
    exchange rates during the year. Translation adjustments
    resulting from this process are charged or credited to other
    comprehensive income.

Comprehensive
    Income (Loss)

Comprehensive income (loss) includes net income (loss) and all
    other non-stockholder changes in equity, or other comprehensive
    income. Elements of the Company’s comprehensive income
    (loss) are reported in the accompanying consolidated statements
    of stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income (loss),
    and the cumulative balance of other comprehensive income (loss)
    consisted solely of foreign currency translation adjustments.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Earnings
    (Loss) Per Share

The weighted average number of common and common equivalent
    shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings
    (loss) per share consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,




Weighted-average common shares outstanding (used in the
    calculations of basic earnings (loss) per share)

392,131,375

354,807,700

354,277,941

Potential dilution from stock options, restricted stock and
    warrants

—

981,919

986,503

Weighted-average common and common equivalent shares (used in
    the calculations of diluted earnings (loss) per share)

392,131,375

355,789,619

355,264,444

Antidilutive stock options, restricted stock and warrants
    excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings (loss) per
    share

184,840,819

1,097,900

882,900

Stock-Based
    Employee Compensation

The Company accounts for its stock-based employee compensation
    under SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,”
    which establishes accounting for equity instruments exchanged
    for employee services. Under the provisions of
    SFAS No. 123R, stock-based compensation cost is
    measured at the grant date, based on the calculated fair value
    of the award, and is recognized over the employee’s
    requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the
    equity grant). The Company’s stock-based employee
    compensation plans are more fully discussed in
    “— Note 14 — Stock-Based Employee
    Compensation.”

Income
    Taxes

The Company is subject to income taxes in the
    U.S. (including federal and state) and numerous foreign
    jurisdictions in which it operates. The Company records income
    taxes under the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax
    assets and liabilities are recognized based on the future tax
    consequences attributable to temporary differences between the
    financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and
    liabilities and their respective tax bases, and attributable to
    operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
    SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,”
    requires a reduction of the carrying amounts of deferred tax
    assets by a valuation allowance, if based on the available
    evidence, it is more likely than not that such assets will not
    be realized. Accordingly, the need to establish valuation
    allowances for deferred tax assets is assessed periodically
    based on the SFAS No. 109 more-likely-than-not
    realization threshold. This assessment considers, among other
    matters, the nature, frequency and severity of current and
    cumulative losses, forecasts of future profitability, the
    duration of statutory carryforward periods, our experience with
    operating loss and tax credit carryforwards not expiring unused,
    and tax planning alternatives.

Significant judgment is required in evaluating the
    Company’s tax positions and determining the provision for
    income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are
    many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax
    determination is uncertain. Effective January 1, 2007, the
    Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48,
    “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.”
    FIN No. 48 provides a two-step approach to recognizing
    and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in
    accordance with SFAS No. 109. The first step is to
    evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the
    weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than
    not that the position will be sustained on audit, including
    resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any.
    The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest
    amount which is more than 50% likely, based solely on the
    technical merits, of being sustained on



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

examinations. The Company considers many factors when evaluating
    and estimating its tax positions and tax benefits, which may
    require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately
    anticipate actual outcomes.

Tax
    Indemnification

In connection with the conversion of LVSLLC from a subchapter
    S corporation to a taxable C corporation for income tax
    purposes in 2004, LVSLLC entered into an indemnification
    agreement pursuant to which it agreed to:

•

indemnify those of the Company’s stockholders who were
    stockholders of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. prior to the 2004 initial
    public offering against certain tax liabilities incurred by
    these stockholders as a result of adjustments (pursuant to a
    determination by, or a settlement with, a taxing authority or
    court, or pursuant to the filing of an amended tax return) to
    the taxable income of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. with respect to
    taxable periods during which Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was a
    subchapter S corporation for income tax purposes; and

•

indemnify the Principal Stockholder against certain tax
    liabilities incurred by him as a result of adjustments (pursuant
    to a determination by, or a settlement with, a taxing authority
    or court, or pursuant to the filing of an amended tax return) to
    the taxable income of Interface Group Holding Company Inc. with
    respect to taxable periods during which it was a subchapter
    S corporation for income tax purposes.

Accounting
    for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

Generally accepted accounting principles require that an entity
    recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the
    statement of financial position and measure those instruments at
    fair value. If specific conditions are met, a derivative may be
    specifically designated as a hedge of specific financial
    exposures. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a
    derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and, if
    used in hedging activities, it depends on its effectiveness as a
    hedge.

The Company has a policy aimed at managing interest rate risk
    associated with its current and anticipated future borrowings.
    This policy enables the Company to use any combination of
    interest rate swaps, futures, options, caps and similar
    instruments. To the extent the Company employs such financial
    instruments pursuant to this policy, and the instruments qualify
    for hedge accounting, they are accounted for as hedging
    instruments. In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the
    underlying hedged item must expose the Company to risks
    associated with market fluctuations and the financial instrument
    used must be designated as a hedge and must reduce the
    Company’s exposure to market fluctuation throughout the
    hedge period. If these criteria are not met, a change in the
    market value of the financial instrument is recognized as a gain
    or loss in results of operations in the period of change.
    Otherwise, gains and losses are recognized in comprehensive
    income or loss except to the extent that the financial
    instrument is disposed of prior to maturity. Net interest paid
    or received pursuant to the financial instrument is included as
    interest expense in the period.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements,” which defines fair value,
    establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands
    disclosures about fair value measurements.
    SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting
    pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurement.
    SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value
    measurements. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are
    effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
    beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods
    within those fiscal years. In January 2008, the FASB deferred
    the effective date for one year for certain non-financial assets
    and non-financial liabilities, except those that are recognized
    or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a
    recurring basis (at least annually). The Company has adopted the
    provisions of this standard and such application did not have a
    material effect on its financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows. See
    “— Note 11 — Fair Value
    Measurements” for disclosures required by this standard.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R,
    “Business Combinations,” which requires an acquirer to
    recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities
    assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the
    acquisition date, measured at their fair values as of that date,
    with limited exceptions specified in the statement.
    SFAS No. 141R applies prospectively to business
    combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the
    beginning of an entity’s fiscal year that begins after
    December 15, 2008. The Company does not expect the adoption
    of SFAS No. 141R will have a material effect on its
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
    “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements — An Amendment of ARB No. 51,”
    which establishes accounting and reporting standards for the
    noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the
    deconsolidation of a subsidiary. Specifically, this statement
    requires the recognition of a noncontrolling interest (minority
    interest) as equity in the consolidated financial statements and
    separate from the parent’s equity. The amount of net income
    (loss) attributable to the noncontrolling interest will be
    included in consolidated net income (loss) on the face of the
    consolidated statement of operations. SFAS No. 160
    clarifies that changes in a parent’s ownership interest in
    a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation are equity
    transactions if the parent retains its controlling financial
    interest. In addition, this statement requires that a parent
    recognize a gain or loss in net income (loss) when a subsidiary
    is deconsolidated and also requires expanded disclosures
    regarding the interests of the parent and the interests of the
    noncontrolling owners. SFAS No. 160 is effective for
    fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years,
    beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The Company does
    not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 160 will have a
    material effect on its financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,
    “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities,” which requires enhanced disclosures about an
    entity’s derivative and hedging activities and thereby
    improves the transparency of financial reporting. The objective
    of the guidance is to provide users of financial statements
    with: an enhanced understanding of how and why an entity uses
    derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related
    hedged items are accounted for; and how derivative instruments
    and related hedged items affect an entity’s financial
    position, financial performance, and cash flows.
    SFAS No. 161 also requires several added quantitative
    disclosures in financial statements. SFAS No. 161 is
    effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
    2008. The Company does not expect the adoption of
    SFAS No. 161 will have a material effect on its
    disclosures.

In April 2008, FASB issued Staff Position (“FSP”)

No. 142-3,

“Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible
    Assets,” which amends the factors that should be considered
    in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine
    the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under
    SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
    Assets.” The intent of this FSP is to improve the
    consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible
    asset under SFAS No. 142 and the period of expected
    cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under
    SFAS No. 141R. FSP

No. 142-3

is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those
    fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The
    Company does not expect the adoption of FSP

No. 142-3

will have a material effect on its financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows.

In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP

FAS No. 140-4

and FIN No. 46(R)-8, “Disclosures by Public
    Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and
    Interests in Variable Interest Entities.” This FSP expands
    the disclosure requirements in SFAS No. 140 and
    FIN No. 46R by requiring additional information about
    a company’s involvement with VIEs and its continuing
    involvement with transferred financial assets. This new
    accounting standard was effective for reporting periods ending
    after December 15, 2008. The adoption of FSP

FAS No. 140-4

and

FIN No. 46R-8

did not have a material impact on the Company’s disclosures.

Other
    Charges

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company
    recorded a net charge of $1.7 million to properly account
    for $5.2 million of casino, convention, retail and other,
    pre-opening and general and administrative expenses that had not
    been accrued, offset by $2.4 million of casino and
    convention, retail and other revenues and a



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

$1.1 million tax benefit that had not been recorded as of
    December 31, 2007. As the amounts involved were not
    material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements
    in any individual prior period, and the cumulative amount is not
    material to the results of operations for the year ending
    December 31, 2008, the Company recorded the cumulative
    effect of correcting these items during the year ended
    December 31, 2008.

Note 3 —

Restricted
    Cash

As required by the Company’s Macao credit facility entered
    into in May 2006 (see “— Note 8 —
    Long-Term Debt — Macao Related Debt — Macao
    Credit Facility”), certain loan proceeds available under
    this facility and certain cash flows generated by the
    Company’s existing Macao operations have been deposited
    into restricted accounts, invested in cash or cash equivalents,
    and pledged to a collateral agent for the Macao credit facility
    lenders. This restricted cash amount will be used as required to
    fund future construction of Four Seasons Macao and other Cotai
    Strip project costs in accordance with terms specified in this
    facility. The restricted accounts are subject to a security
    interest in favor of the lenders under the Macao credit
    facility. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the cash
    balances in the restricted accounts were $124.1 million and
    $59.2 million, respectively.

As required by the Company’s Singapore permanent facilities
    entered into in December 2007 (see
    “— Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt — Singapore Related Debt — Singapore
    Permanent Facilities”), proceeds available under this
    facility have been deposited into accounts, invested in cash or
    cash equivalents, and pledged to a security trustee for the
    benefit of the Singapore facility lenders. This restricted cash
    amount will be used as required to fund construction and other
    operating and development costs of the Marina Bay Sands. These
    accounts are subject to a security interest in favor of the
    lenders under the Singapore permanent facilities. As of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, the restricted cash balance was
    $61.9 million and $338.1 million, respectively.

Restricted cash also includes $8.8 million and
    $14.5 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, related to other items. Restricted cash balances
    classified as current are primarily equivalent to the related
    construction payables that are also classified as current.

Note 4 —

Accounts
    Receivable, Net

Accounts receivable consists of the following (in thousands):

At December 31,



Casino

$

317,613

$

117,193

Rooms

64,350

63,895

Other

64,073

39,223

446,036

220,311

Less — allowance for doubtful accounts

(61,217

)

(33,116

)

$

384,819

$

187,195



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 5 —

Property
    and Equipment, Net

Property and equipment consists of the following (in thousands):

At December 31,



Land and improvements

$

341,927

$

297,678

Building and improvements

6,309,494

4,435,934

Furniture, fixtures, equipment and leasehold improvements

1,547,261

1,013,138

Transportation

322,194

176,897

Construction in progress

4,438,216

3,258,750

12,959,092

9,182,397

Less — accumulated depreciation and amortization

(1,090,864

)

(607,783

)

$

11,868,228

$

8,574,614

Construction in progress consists of the following (in
    thousands):

At December 31,



Four Seasons Macao

$

255,373

$

359,889

Other Macao Development Projects (principally Cotai Strip
    parcels 5 and 6)

1,917,547

714,701

Marina Bay Sands

1,422,795

552,850

The Palazzo and The Shoppes at The Palazzo

166,450

1,363,045

Sands Bethlehem

413,563

66,898

Other

262,488

201,367

$

4,438,216

$

3,258,750

As of December 31, 2008, portions of The Palazzo and The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo were under construction and are scheduled
    to be completed during 2009. Approximately $194.2 million
    in building and improvements, $27.3 million in furniture,
    fixtures, equipment and leasehold improvements (with total
    accumulated depreciation of $8.9 million) and
    $148.0 million in construction in progress as of
    December 31, 2008, related to The Shoppes at the Palazzo,
    which was sold to GGP (see
    “— Note 12 — Mall Sale —
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo”). The $262.5 million in
    other construction in progress consists primarily of the
    construction of the St. Regis Residences and other projects in
    Las Vegas and at The Venetian Macao. See
    “— Note 1 — Organization and
    Business of Company — Development Projects” for
    discussion regarding the Company’s projects that are under
    development and the projects that have been suspended.

The cost of property and equipment that the Company is leasing
    to tenants as part of its Macao mall operations as of
    December 31, 2008, was $272.0 million with accumulated
    depreciation of $20.3 million.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 6 —

Leasehold
    Interests in Land, Net

Leasehold interests in land consist of the following (in
    thousands):

At December 31,



Marina Bay Sands

$

859,275

$

854,386

Sands Macao

27,334

22,625

The Venetian Macao (parcel 1)

167,917

163,753

Four Seasons Macao (parcel 2)

58,273

27,890

Parcel 3

43,935

29,839

1,156,734

1,098,493

Less — accumulated amortization

(56,796

)

(28,884

)

$

1,099,938

$

1,069,609

The Company amortizes the leasehold interests in land for Marina
    Bay Sands, Sands Macao and the three parcels on the Cotai Strip
    on a straight-line basis over the expected term of the leases at
    approximately $14.3 million, $1.1 million and
    $10.8 million, respectively, annually at exchange rates in
    effect on December 31, 2008.

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company made
    payments of 96.0 million and 107.7 million patacas
    (approximately $12.0 million and $13.5 million,
    respectively, at exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2008) for partial payments of the land premium for parcels
    2 and 3, respectively. The Company also made a payment of
    142.3 million patacas (approximately $17.8 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2008) in
    consideration for the Four Seasons land concession amendment,
    which separated the retail mall and hotel portions of the
    parcel, and allowed the Company to subdivide such parcel into
    four separate components, consisting of retail, hotel/casino,
    Four Seasons Apartments and parking areas. As construction is
    still in progress on parcels 2 and 3, the balance will either be
    due upon the completion of the resorts on these parcels (with
    the Four Seasons Apartments expected to be completed in the
    third quarter of 2009) or will be payable through seven
    equal semi-annual payments (three of which have been made as of
    December 31, 2008), bearing interest at 5.0% per annum.

In addition to the land premium payments for the Macao leasehold
    interests in land, the Company is required to make annual rent
    payments in the amounts and at the times specified in the land
    concessions. The rent amounts may be revised every five years by
    the Macao government. As of December 31, 2008, the Company
    was obligated under its land concessions to make future premium
    and rental payments as follows (in thousands):


$

45,088


18,394


3,173


3,173


3,173

Thereafter

57,357

$

130,358



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 7 —

Other
    Accrued Liabilities

Other accrued liabilities consist of the following (in
    thousands):

At December 31,



Customer deposits

$

111,191

$

143,053

Payroll and related

84,578

92,103

Taxes and licenses

133,921

140,003

Outstanding gaming chips and tokens

143,951

152,962

Other accruals

119,654

82,790

$

593,295

$

610,911

Note 8 —

Long-Term
    Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):

At December 31,



Corporate and U.S. Related:

Senior Secured Credit Facility — Term B

$

2,955,000

$

2,985,000

Senior Secured Credit Facility — Delayed Draw I

597,000

—

Senior Secured Credit Facility — Delayed Draw II

400,000

—

Senior Secured Credit Facility — Revolving

775,860

—

6.375% Senior Notes (net of original issue discount of
    $1,392 and $1,620, respectively)

248,608

248,380

FF&E Financings

141,950

61,416

Airplane Financings

85,797

89,484

Other

5,765

6,857

Macao Related:

Macao Credit Facility — Term B

1,800,000

1,800,000

Macao Credit Facility — Term B Delayed

700,000

700,000

Macao Credit Facility — Revolving

695,299

251,000

Macao Credit Facility — Local Term

100,589

100,000

Ferry Financing

218,564

—

Other

11,054

6,434

Singapore Related:

Singapore Permanent Facility — A and B

1,735,252

—

Singapore Bridge Facility — Term Loan

—

594,404

Singapore Bridge Facility — Floating Rate Notes

—

729,355

10,470,738

7,572,330

Less — current maturities

(114,623

)

(54,333

)

Total long-term debt

$

10,356,115

$

7,517,997



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Corporate
    and U.S. Related Debt

Senior
    Secured Credit Facility

In May 2007, the Company entered into a $5.0 billion senior
    secured credit facility (the “Senior Secured Credit
    Facility”), which consists of a $3.0 billion funded
    term B loan (the “Term B Facility”), a
    $600.0 million delayed draw term B loan available for
    12 months after closing (the “Delayed Draw I
    Facility”), a $400.0 million delayed draw term B loan
    available for 18 months after closing (the “Delayed
    Draw II Facility”) and a $1.0 billion revolving
    credit facility, of which up to $100.0 million may be drawn
    on a swingline basis (the “Revolving Facility”). As of
    December 31, 2008, the Company had $116.3 million of
    available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Facility, net
    of outstanding letters of credit and including approximately
    $7.6 million committed to be funded by Lehman Brothers
    Commercial Paper Inc.

The Senior Secured Credit Facility is guaranteed by certain of
    the Company’s domestic subsidiaries (the
    “Guarantors”). The obligations under the Senior
    Secured Credit Facility and the guarantees of the Guarantors are
    collateralized by a first-priority security interest in
    substantially all of LVSLLC’s and the Guarantors’
    assets, other than capital stock and similar ownership
    interests, certain furniture, fixtures and equipment, and
    certain other excluded assets.

The Term B Facility and the Delayed Draw I Facility mature on
    May 23, 2014. The Term B Facility is subject to quarterly
    amortization payments of $7.5 million, which began on
    September 30, 2007, followed by a balloon payment of
    $2.80 billion due on May 23, 2014. The Delayed Draw I
    Facility is subject to quarterly amortization payments of
    $1.5 million, which began on September 30, 2008,
    followed by a balloon payment of $565.5 million due on
    May 23, 2014. The Delayed Draw II Facility matures on
    May 23, 2013, and is subject to quarterly amortization
    payments of $1.0 million, which begin on March 31,
    2009, followed by a balloon payment of $383.0 million due
    on May 23, 2013. The Revolving Facility matures on
    May 23, 2012, and has no interim amortization.

Borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facility bear
    interest, at the Company’s option, at either an adjusted
    Eurodollar rate or at an alternative base rate plus a credit
    spread. For base rate borrowings, the initial credit spread is
    0.5% per annum and 0.75% per annum for the Revolving Facility
    and the term loans, respectively. For Eurodollar rate
    borrowings, the initial credit spread is 1.5% per annum and
    1.75% per annum for the Revolving Facility and the term loans,
    respectively (set at 2.0% and 2.2% as of December 31, 2008,
    respectively). These spreads will be reduced by 0.25% per annum
    if the Company’s “corporate rating” (as defined
    in the Senior Secured Credit Facility) is increased to at least
    Ba2 by Moody’s and at least BB by Standard &
    Poor’s Ratings Group (“S&P”), subject to
    certain additional conditions. The spread for the Revolving
    Facility will be further reduced by 0.25% per annum if the
    Company’s “corporate rating” is increased to at
    least Ba1 or higher by Moody’s and at least BB+ or higher
    by S&P, subject to certain additional conditions. The
    weighted average interest rate for the Senior Secured Credit
    Facility was 5.2% and 7.1% during the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The Company pays a commitment fee of 0.375% per annum on the
    undrawn amounts under the Revolving Facility, which will be
    reduced by 0.125% per annum if certain ratings are achieved,
    subject to certain additional conditions. The Company also pays
    a commitment fee equal to 0.75% per annum and 0.5% per annum on
    the undrawn amounts under the Delayed Draw I Facility and the
    Delayed Draw II Facility, respectively.

To meet the requirements of the Senior Secured Credit Facility,
    the Company entered into an interest rate cap agreement in
    August 2007 with a notional amount of $1.64 billion, which
    expires on May 31, 2009. The provisions of this interest
    rate cap agreement entitle the Company to receive from the
    counterparty the amounts, if any, by which the selected market
    interest rate exceeds the strike rate of 6.75%. The Company had
    three additional interest rate cap agreements that it entered
    into as part of the prior senior secured credit facility with
    notional amounts of $500.0 million, $50.0 million and
    $10.0 million, which expired on March 30, 2008. The
    provisions of these interest rate cap agreements entitled the
    Company to receive from the counterparties the amounts, if any,
    by which the selected market interest rates exceed the strike
    rates of 5.75%, 6.5% and 6.375%, respectively. There was no net



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

effect on interest expense as a result of these four interest
    rate cap agreements for the years ended December 31, 2008
    and 2007.

The Senior Secured Credit Facility contains affirmative and
    negative covenants customary for such financings, including, but
    not limited to, limitations on incurring additional liens,
    incurring additional indebtedness, making certain investments,
    paying dividends and making other restricted payments, and
    acquiring and selling assets. The Senior Secured Credit Facility
    also requires the Guarantors to comply with financial covenants,
    including, but not limited to, minimum ratios of Adjusted EBITDA
    to interest expense and maximum ratios of total debt outstanding
    to Adjusted EBITDA. The Senior Secured Credit Facility also
    contains conditions and events of default customary for such
    financings. See “— Note 1 —
    Organization and Business of Company — Development
    Financing Strategy” for further discussion. In addition,
    there are provisions that limit or prohibit certain payments of
    dividends and other distributions to LVSC. At December 31,
    2008, the net assets of LVSLLC were $4.11 billion, a
    substantial portion of which were restricted from being
    distributed under the terms of the Senior Secured Credit
    Facility.

A portion of the proceeds of the Term B Facility was used to
    refinance the prior senior secured credit facility, repay the
    construction loan related to The Shoppes at The Palazzo and
    Sands Expo Center mortgage loan, pay for certain construction
    and development related expenses incurred in connection with The
    Palazzo, and for fees and expenses related to the Senior Secured
    Credit Facility. The Company incurred a charge of approximately
    $10.7 million for loss on early retirement of debt during
    2007 as a result of refinancing the facility.

Senior
    Notes

On February 10, 2005, LVSC sold in a private placement
    transaction $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of
    its 6.375% Senior Notes due 2015 (the “Senior
    Notes”) with an original issue discount of
    $2.3 million. Net proceeds after offering costs and
    original issue discount were $244.8 million. The Senior
    Notes will mature on February 15, 2015. LVSC has the option
    to redeem all or a portion of the Senior Notes at any time prior
    to February 15, 2010, at a “make-whole”
    redemption price. Thereafter, LVSC has the option to redeem all
    or a portion of the Senior Notes at any time at fixed prices
    that decline ratably over time. The Senior Notes are unsecured
    senior obligations of LVSC and are jointly and severally
    guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of LVSC’s
    existing domestic subsidiaries, which includes LVSLLC and
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (“VCR”). The indenture
    governing the Senior Notes contains covenants that, subject to
    certain exceptions and conditions, limit the ability of LVSC and
    the subsidiary guarantors to enter into sale and leaseback
    transactions in respect of their principal properties, create
    liens on their principal properties and consolidate, merge or
    sell all or substantially all their assets. In June 2005, the
    Senior Notes were exchanged for substantially similar Senior
    Notes, which have been registered under the federal securities
    laws. In connection with entering into the Senior Secured Credit
    Facility, the Senior Notes were collateralized on an equal and
    ratable basis with the obligations under the Senior Secured
    Credit Facility by the assets of LVSLLC and the Guarantors.

FF&E
    Financings

In December 2006, certain of the Company’s subsidiaries,
    including LVSLLC and VCR, entered into an FF&E credit
    facility agreement (the “FF&E Facility”) with a
    group of lenders and General Electric Capital Corporation as
    administrative agent to provide up to $142.9 million to
    finance or refinance the acquisition of certain FF&E
    located in The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo. The FF&E
    Facility consisted of a $7.9 million funded term loan which
    proceeds refinanced a prior FF&E loan and a
    $135.0 million delayed draw term loan. In August 2007, the
    parties to the FF&E Facility entered into an amended and
    restated FF&E credit and guarantee agreement (the
    “Amended and Restated FF&E Facility”) which,
    among other things, increased the overall size of the delayed
    draw term loan facility to $167.0 million, repaid the
    funded term loan under the FF&E Facility and conformed the
    affirmative and negative covenants and events of default to
    those set forth in the Senior Secured Credit Facility. The
    delayed draw



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

term loan commitment under the Amended and Restated FF&E
    Facility terminated on June 30, 2008, and as of
    December 31, 2008, the Company has fully drawn the delayed
    draw term loan.

The Amended and Restated FF&E Facility is collateralized by
    the FF&E financed

and/or

refinanced with the proceeds of the Amended and Restated
    FF&E Facility, and is guaranteed by the Guarantors under
    the Senior Secured Credit Facility.

The delayed draw term loan matures in June 2011. The Company is
    required to make principal payments in quarterly installments
    commencing on July 1, 2008, in an amount equal to 5.0% of
    the aggregate principal amount of the delayed draw term loan
    outstanding on July 1, 2008, with the remainder due in four
    equal quarterly installments ending on the maturity date. The
    Amended and Restated FF&E Facility also requires the
    Company to make mandatory prepayments of the delayed draw term
    loan under certain specified circumstances.

Borrowings under the Amended and Restated FF&E Facility
    bear interest, at the Company’s option, at either an
    adjusted Eurodollar rate or at a base rate, plus an applicable
    margin. The initial applicable margin is 1.0% per annum for
    loans accruing interest at the base rate, and 2.0% per annum for
    loans accruing interest at the adjusted Eurodollar rate (set at
    2.5% as of December 31, 2008). The applicable margins may
    be reduced by 0.25% per annum under certain circumstances
    similar to those set forth in the Senior Secured Credit
    Facility. The Company will also pay a commitment fee of 0.50%
    per annum on the undrawn amount of the term delayed draw loan.
    The weighted average interest rate on the Amended and Restated
    FF&E Facility was 5.5% and 7.4% during the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Airplane
    Financings

In February 2007, the Company entered into promissory notes
    totaling $72.0 million to finance the purchase of one
    airplane and to finance two others that were already owned. The
    notes consist of balloon payment promissory notes and amortizing
    promissory notes, all of which have ten year maturities and are
    collateralized by the related aircraft. The notes bear interest
    at three-month London Inter-Bank Offer Rate (“LIBOR”)
    plus 1.5% per annum (set at 3.7% as of December 31, 2008).
    The amortizing notes, totaling $28.8 million, are subject
    to quarterly principal and interest payments, which began
    June 1, 2007. The balloon notes, totaling
    $43.2 million, are subject to quarterly interest payments,
    which began June 1, 2007, with the principal payments due
    in full on March 1, 2017. The weighted average interest
    rate on the notes was 4.8% and 7.0% during the years ended
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

In April 2007, the Company entered into promissory notes
    totaling $20.3 million to finance the purchase of an
    additional airplane. The notes have ten year maturities and
    consist of a balloon payment promissory note and an amortizing
    promissory note. The notes bear interest at three-month LIBOR
    plus 1.25% per annum (set at 2.7% as of December 31, 2008).
    The $8.1 million amortizing note is subject to quarterly
    principal and interest payments, which began June 30, 2007.
    The $12.2 million balloon note is subject to quarterly
    interest payments, which began June 30, 2007, with the
    principal payment due in full on March 31, 2017. The
    weighted average interest rate on the notes was 4.9% and 6.6%
    during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Convertible
    Senior Notes

In September 2008, the Company sold to the Principal
    Stockholder’s family, in a private placement transaction,
    $475.0 million of its 6.5% convertible senior notes due
    2013 (the “Convertible Senior Notes”). The Convertible
    Senior Notes were subject to quarterly interest payments,
    commencing January 1, 2009, and would mature on
    October 1, 2013, unless earlier converted or repurchased by
    the Company. The initial conversion rate was 20.141 shares
    of common stock per $1,000 principal amount (equivalent to a
    conversion price of approximately $49.65 per share of common
    stock), subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.
    Following any fundamental change, as defined in the agreement,
    that occurs prior to the maturity date, the Company would be
    required to make an offer to purchase the Convertible Senior
    Notes. The Principal Stockholder’s family were granted
    pre-emptive



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

rights with respect to any future proposed issuance or sale by
    the Company of equity interests (including convertible or
    exchangeable securities), pursuant to which they would be able
    to purchase a portion of the offered equity interests based on
    their fully diluted common stock ownership in the Company.

In November 2008, concurrent with the Company’s issuance of
    common and preferred stock and warrants (see
    “— Note 9 — Stockholders’
    Equity”), the Convertible Senior Notes were retired and the
    conversion feature was utilized to acquire
    86,363,636 shares of the Company’s common stock at a
    conversion price of $5.50 per share (a conversion rate of
    approximately 181.818 shares per $1,000 principal amount).
    As a result, the Company incurred a charge of approximately
    $5.1 million for loss on early retirement of the notes as
    of December 31, 2008. Additionally, the Company paid
    interest to the Principal Stockholder’s family of
    $3.7 million for the period the Convertible Senior Notes
    were outstanding.

Macao
    Related Debt

Macao
    Credit Facility

On May 25, 2006, two subsidiaries of the Company, VML US
    Finance, LLC (the “Borrower”) and Venetian Macau
    Limited (“VML”), as guarantor, entered into a credit
    agreement (the “Macao Credit Facility”). The Macao
    Credit Facility originally consisted of a $1.2 billion
    funded term B loan (the “Macao Term B Facility”), a
    $700.0 million delayed draw term B loan (the “Macao
    Term B Delayed Draw Facility”), a $100.0 million
    funded local currency term loan (the “Macao Local Term
    Facility”) and a $500.0 million revolving credit
    facility (the “Macao Revolving Facility”). In March
    2007, the Macao Credit Facility was amended to expand the use of
    proceeds and remove certain restrictive covenants. In April
    2007, the lenders of the Macao Credit Facility approved a
    reduction of the interest rate margin for all classes of loans
    by 50 basis points and the Borrower exercised its rights
    under the Macao Credit Facility to access the
    $800.0 million of incremental facilities under the
    accordion feature set forth therein, which increased the funded
    Macao Term B Facility by $600.0 million, the Macao
    Revolving Facility by $200.0 million, and the total Macao
    Credit Facility to $3.3 billion. As of December 31,
    2008, the Macao Credit Facility had been fully funded except for
    $4.7 million committed to be funded by Lehman Brothers
    Commercial Paper Inc.

The indebtedness under the Macao Credit Facility is guaranteed
    by VML, Venetian Cotai Limited and certain of the Company’s
    other foreign subsidiaries (the “Macao Guarantors”).
    The obligations under the Macao Credit Facility and the
    guarantees of the Macao Guarantors are collateralized by a
    first-priority security interest in substantially all of the
    Borrower’s and the Macao Guarantors’ assets, other
    than (1) capital stock of the Borrower and the Macao
    Guarantors, (2) assets that secure permitted furniture,
    fixtures and equipment financings, (3) VML’s gaming
    subconcession contract and (4) certain other excluded
    assets.

The Macao Revolving Facility and the Macao Local Term Facility
    mature on May 25, 2011. The Macao Term B Delayed Draw
    Facility and the Macao Term B Facility mature on May 25,
    2012 and 2013, respectively. The Macao Term B Delayed Draw and
    the Macao Term B Facility are subject to nominal amortization
    for the first five and six years, respectively, which is
    expected to commence in June 2009, with the remainder of the
    loans payable in four equal installments in the last year
    immediately preceding their maturity dates. The Macao Local Term
    Facility is subject to quarterly amortization in an amount of
    approximately $6.3 million per quarter, which is expected
    to commence in July 2009, with the remainder of the loan payable
    in four equal quarterly installments in the last year
    immediately preceding the maturity date.

Borrowings under the Macao Credit Facility bear interest, at the
    Company’s option, at either an adjusted Eurodollar rate
    (or, in the case of the Macao Local Term Facility, adjusted Hong
    Kong Inter-Bank Offer Rate (“HIBOR”)) or at an
    alternative base rate, plus a spread of 2.25% per annum or 1.25%
    per annum, respectively (set at 2.5% for the Macao Local Term
    Facility and 2.7% for the remainder of the Macao Credit Facility
    at December 31, 2008), and are subject to a downward
    adjustment of 0.25% per annum from the beginning of the first
    principal payment if certain maximum leverage ratios are
    satisfied. The Borrower also pays a standby commitment fee of



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

0.5% per annum on the undrawn amounts under the Macao Revolving
    Facility. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    the weighted average interest rates for the Macao Local Term
    Facility were 5.1% and 6.8%, respectively, and the weighted
    average interest rates for the remainder of the Macao Credit
    Facility were 5.8% and 7.8%, respectively.

To meet the requirements of the Macao Credit Facility, the
    Company entered into four separate interest rate cap agreements
    in September 2006, May 2007, October 2007 and September 2008
    (collectively, the “Macao Cap Agreements”) with
    notional amounts of $1.0 billion, $325.0 million,
    $165.0 million and $160.0 million, respectively, all
    of which expire on September 21, 2009. The provisions of
    the Macao Cap Agreements entitle the Company to receive from the
    counterparties the amounts, if any, by which the selected market
    interest rates exceed the strike rate of 6.75% as stated in such
    agreement. There was no net effect on interest expense as a
    result of the Macao Cap Agreements for the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

The Macao Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative
    covenants customary for such financings, including, but not
    limited to, limitations on incurring additional liens, incurring
    additional indebtedness, making certain investments, paying
    dividends and making other restricted payments, and acquiring
    and selling assets. The Macao Credit Facility also requires the
    Borrower and the Macao Guarantors to comply with financial
    covenants, including, but not limited to, generating a minimum
    Adjusted EBITDA for a period of time and, thereafter, ratios of
    Adjusted EBITDA to interest expense and total indebtedness to
    Adjusted EBITDA, as well as maximum annual capital expenditures.
    The Macao Credit Facility also contains events of default
    customary for such financings. See
    “— Note 1 — Organization and
    Business of Company — Development Financing
    Strategy” for further discussion.

Ferry
    Financing

In January 2008, in order to finance the purchase of ten
    ferries, the Company entered into a 1.21 billion Hong Kong
    dollar (“HKD,” approximately $156.0 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2008) secured
    credit facility, which is available for borrowing for up to
    18 months after closing. The proceeds from the secured
    credit facility were used to reimburse the Company for cash
    spent to date on the construction of the ferries and to finance
    the completion of the remaining ferries. The facility is
    collateralized by the ferries and is guaranteed by VML. The
    facility matures in January 2018 and is subject to 34 quarterly
    payments commencing at the end of the

18-month

availability period.

In July 2008, the Company exercised the accordion option on the
    secured credit facility agreement that financed the
    Company’s original ten ferries and executed a supplement to
    the secured credit facility agreement. The supplement increased
    the secured credit facility by an additional HKD
    561.6 million (approximately $72.5 million at exchange
    rates in effect on December 31, 2008), of which the Company
    has drawn HKD 485.0 million (approximately
    $62.6 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008) as of December 31, 2008. The
    proceeds from this supplemental facility were  used to reimburse
    the Company for cash spent to date on construction of four
    additional ferries and to finance the remaining progress
    payments on those ferries. The supplemental facility is
    collateralized by the additional ferries and is guaranteed by
    VML.

Borrowings under the facility bear interest at the HIBOR plus
    2.0% per annum if borrowings are made in Hong Kong dollars (set
    at 2.3% as of December 31, 2008) or the LIBOR plus
    2.0% per annum if borrowings are made in U.S. dollars. All
    borrowings under the facility, which was fully drawn as of
    December 31, 2008, were made in Hong Kong dollars. The
    weighted average interest rate for the facility was 4.7% for the
    year ended December 31, 2008.

Singapore
    Related Debt

MBS entered into the Singapore bridge facility in August 2006 to
    pay the land premium to the STB under the Development Agreement
    and to commence construction of Marina Bay Sands. As the
    facility would mature in August 2008, the Company entered into
    the Singapore permanent facilities in December 2007. Upon
    closing in January 2008, a portion of the borrowings under the
    Singapore permanent facilities, as well as contributions made



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

by the Company to MBS, were used to repay the outstanding
    balances on the Singapore bridge facility, and to pay fees,
    costs and expenses related to entering into the Singapore
    permanent facilities agreement. The Company incurred a charge of
    approximately $4.0 million for loss on early retirement of
    debt in January 2008 as a result of refinancing the Singapore
    bridge facility.

Singapore
    Permanent Facilities

In December 2007, MBS signed a facility agreement (the
    “Singapore Permanent Facility Agreement”) providing
    for a SGD 2.0 billion (approximately $1.39 billion at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2008) term
    loan (“Singapore Permanent Facility A”) that was
    funded in January 2008, a SGD 2.75 billion (approximately
    $1.91 billion at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008) term loan (“Singapore
    Permanent Facility B”) that is available on a delayed draw
    basis until December 31, 2010, a SGD 192.6 million
    (approximately $133.9 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2008) banker’s guarantee facility
    (“Singapore Permanent Facility C”) to provide the
    bankers guarantees in favor of the STB required under the
    Development Agreement that was fully drawn in January 2008, and
    a SGD 500.0 million (approximately $347.5 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2008) revolving credit facility (“Singapore Permanent
    Facility D” and collectively, the “Singapore Permanent
    Facilities”) that is available until February 28,
    2015. As of December 31, 2008, the Company has SGD
    2.61 billion (approximately $1.82 billion at exchange
    rates in effect on December 31, 2008) available for
    borrowing, net of outstanding banker’s guarantees and
    undrawn amounts committed to be funded by Lehman Brothers
    Finance Asia Pte. Ltd., under the Singapore Permanent Facilities.

The indebtedness under the Singapore Permanent Facility
    Agreement is collateralized by a first-priority security
    interest in substantially all of MBS’s assets, other than
    capital stock and similar ownership interests, certain
    furniture, fixtures, fittings and equipment and certain other
    excluded assets.

The Singapore Permanent Facilities mature on March 31,
    2015, with MBS required to repay or prepay the Singapore
    Permanent Facilities under certain circumstances. Commencing
    March 31, 2011, and at the end of each quarter thereafter,
    MBS is required to repay the outstanding Singapore Permanent
    Facility A and Facility B loans on a pro rata basis in an
    aggregate amount equal to SGD 125.0 million (approximately
    $86.9 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008) per quarter. In addition,
    commencing at the end of the third full quarter of operations of
    the Marina Bay Sands, MBS is required to further prepay the
    outstanding Singapore Permanent Facility A and Facility B loans
    on a pro rata basis with a percentage of excess free cash flow
    (as defined by the Singapore Permanent Facility Agreement).

Borrowings under the Singapore Permanent Facilities bear
    interest at the Singapore Swap Offer Rate plus a spread of 2.25%
    per annum (set at 3.4% as  of December 31, 2008). MBS pays
    a standby interest fee of 1.125% per annum and 0.90% per annum
    on the undrawn amounts under Singapore Permanent Facility B and
    Facility D, respectively. MBS pays a commission of 2.25% per
    annum on the bankers’ guarantees outstanding under the
    Singapore Permanent Facilities for the period during which any
    banker’s guarantees are outstanding. For the year ended
    December 31, 2008, the weighted average interest rate for
    the Singapore Permanent Facilities was 3.7%.

To meet the requirements of the Singapore Permanent Facility
    Agreement, the Company entered into three interest rate cap
    agreements in June 2008, with notional amounts of
    $300.0 million, $235.0 million and
    $150.0 million, all of which expire in June 2011. In July
    and August 2008, the Company entered into four additional
    interest rate cap agreements, with notional amounts of
    $75.0 million, $175.0 million, $175.0 million and
    $200.0 million, which expire in July or August 2011. In
    December 2008, the Company entered into two additional interest
    rate cap agreements, with notional amounts of $50.0 million
    each, which expire December 2011. The provisions of the interest
    rate cap agreements entitle the Company to receive from the
    counterparties the amounts, if any, by which the selected market
    interest rates exceed the strike rate (which range from 4.0% to
    5.0%) as stated in



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

such agreements. There was no net effect on interest expense as
    a result of the interest rate cap agreements as of
    December 31, 2008.

The Singapore Permanent Facility Agreement contains affirmative
    and negative covenants customary for such financings, including,
    but not limited to, limitations on liens, annual capital
    expenditures other than project costs, indebtedness, loans and
    guarantees, investments, acquisitions and asset sales,
    restricted payments, affiliate transactions and use of proceeds
    from the facilities. The Singapore Permanent Facility Agreement
    also requires MBS to comply with financial covenants as of the
    end of the first full quarter beginning not less than
    183 days after the commencement of operations of the Marina
    Bay Sands, including maximum ratios of total indebtedness to
    Adjusted EBITDA, minimum ratios of Adjusted EBITDA to interest
    expense, minimum Adjusted EBITDA requirements and positive net
    worth requirement. The Singapore Permanent Facility Agreement
    also contains events of default customary for such financings.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Cash
    Flows from Financing Activities

Cash flows from financing activities related to long-term debt
    are as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Proceeds from Singapore Permanent Facility

$

1,730,515

$

—

$

—

Proceeds from Senior Secured Credit Facility — Term B
    and Delayed Draws

1,000,000

3,000,000

—

Proceeds from Senior Secured Credit Facility —
    Revolving

1,075,860

—

—

Proceeds from Macao Credit Facility

444,299

1,551,000

1,350,000

Proceeds from Ferry Financing

218,564

—

—

Proceeds from FF&E Financings and Other Long-Term Debt

146,963

38,038

37,790

Proceeds from Singapore Bridge Facility

—

339,788

892,076

Proceeds from Airplane Financings

—

92,250

—

Proceeds from Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility —
    Revolving

—

62,000

254,129

Proceeds from The Shoppes at The Palazzo Construction Loan

—

52,000

86,000

$

4,616,201

$

5,135,076

$

2,619,995

Repayments on Singapore Bridge Facility

$

(1,326,467

)

$

—

$

—

Repayments on Senior Secured Credit Facility —
    Revolving

(300,000

)

—

—

Repayments on Senior Secured Credit Facility —

Term B and Delayed Draw I

(33,000

)

(15,000

)

—

Repayments on FF&E Financings and Other Long-Term Debt

(62,754

)

(8,539

)

(3,013

)

Repayments on Airplane Financings

(3,687

)

(2,766

)

—

Repayments on Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility —
    Term B and Term B Delayed

—

(1,170,000

)

—

Repayments on Prior Senior Secured Credit Facility —
    Revolving

—

(322,128

)

(25,000

)

Repayments on The Shoppes at The Palazzo Construction Loan

—

(166,500

)

—

Repayments on Sands Expo Center Mortgage Loan

—

(90,868

)

(4,733

)

Repayments on Venetian Intermediate Credit Facility

—

—

(50,000

)

Repayments on Macao Credit Facility

—

—

(50,000

)

$

(1,725,908

)

$

(1,775,801

)

$

(132,746

)



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Scheduled
    Maturities of Long-Term Debt

Maturities of long-term debt outstanding (excluding discounts)
    at December 31, 2008, are summarized as follows (in
    thousands):


$

114,623


197,611


1,592,650


2,414,642


1,667,657

Thereafter

4,484,947

$

10,472,130

Fair
    Value of Long-Term Debt

The estimated fair value of the Company’s long-term debt at
    December 31, 2008 was approximately $6.3 billion,
    compared to its carrying value of $10.5 billion. At
    December 31, 2007, the estimated fair value of the
    Company’s long-term debt was approximately
    $7.6 billion, consistent with its carrying value. The
    estimated fair value of the Company’s long-term debt is
    based on quoted market prices, if available, or by pricing
    models based on the value of related cash flows discounted at
    current market interest rates.

Note 9 —

Stockholders’
    Equity

Common
    Stock

In November 2008, the Company issued, in a public offering,
    200,000,000 shares of its common stock at $5.50 per share
    and received gross proceeds of $1.10 billion
    ($1.05 billion, net of transaction costs). Concurrent with
    this issuance, the Principal Stockholder’s family converted
    $475.0 million of Convertible Senior Notes into
    86,363,636 shares of the Company’s common stock.

Preferred
    Stock

In November 2008, the Company issued 10,446,300 shares of
    its 10% Series A Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (the
    “Preferred Stock”) and warrants to purchase up to an
    aggregate of approximately 174,105,348 shares of common
    stock at an exercise price of $6.00 per share and an expiration
    date of November 16, 2013 (the “Warrants”). Units
    consisting of one share of Preferred Stock and one Warrant to
    purchase 16.6667 shares of common stock were sold for $100
    per unit. The Preferred Stock is redeemable on or after
    November 15, 2011, at the Company’s option, in whole
    or in part, at a redemption price equal to the sum of $110 per
    share and any accrued and unpaid dividends. The minimum number
    of shares of Preferred Stock that may be redeemed at any time is
    the lesser of (i) 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock
    and (ii) the number of shares of Preferred Stock
    outstanding. Holders of the Preferred Stock have no rights to
    exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.

The holders of the Preferred Stock have no preemptive rights and
    no voting rights except as required by applicable Nevada laws
    and under certain circumstances. The holders of the Preferred
    Stock do not have the right to require the Company to redeem any
    shares of Preferred Stock, except as described below. The
    Preferred Stock ranks as to payment of dividends and
    distributions of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding
    up:

•

junior to all of the Company’s existing and future debt
    obligations;

•

junior to any class or series of the Company’s capital
    stock, the terms of which provide that such class or series will
    rank senior to the Preferred Stock;



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

•

senior to the Company’s common stock and any other class or
    series of its capital stock, the terms of which provide that
    such class or series will ranks junior to the Preferred Stock
    either or both as to payment of dividends

and/or

as to
    the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or
    winding up of the Company; and

•

on a parity with any other class or series of the Company’s
    capital stock, the terms of which provide that such class or
    series will rank equally with the Preferred Stock both in the
    payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any
    liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company.

Under Nevada law, the Company may declare or pay dividends on
    the Preferred Stock only to the extent by which the total assets
    exceed the total liabilities and so long as the Company is able
    to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of its
    business. When and if declared by the Company’s Board of
    Directors, holders of the Preferred Stock are entitled to
    receive cumulative cash dividends quarterly on each
    February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15,
    beginning February 15, 2009.

Preferred
    Stock Issued to Public

Of the 10,446,300 shares of Preferred Stock issued, the
    Company issued to the public 5,196,300 shares with Warrants
    to purchase up to an aggregate of approximately
    86,605,173 shares of its common stock and received gross
    proceeds of $519.6 million ($503.6 million, net of
    transaction costs). The allocated carrying values of the
    Preferred Stock and Warrants on the date of issuance (based on
    their relative fair values) were $298.1 million and
    $221.5 million, respectively.

Preferred
    Stock Issued to Principal Stockholder’s Family

Of the 10,446,300 shares of Preferred Stock issued, the
    Company issued to the Principal Stockholder’s family
    5,250,000 shares with Warrants to purchase up to an
    aggregate of approximately 87,500,175 shares of its common
    stock and received gross proceeds of $525.0 million
    ($523.7 million, net of transaction costs). The allocated
    carrying values of the Preferred Stock and Warrants on the date
    of issuance (based on their relative fair values) were
    $301.1 million and $223.9 million, respectively. The
    Preferred Stock amount has been recorded as mezzanine equity on
    the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as the Principal
    Stockholder and his family have a greater than 50% ownership of
    the Company and therefore have the potential ability to require
    the Company to redeem their Preferred Stock beginning
    November 15, 2011.

As the Preferred Stock issued to the Principal
    Stockholder’s family is being accounted for as redeemable
    at the option of the holder, the balance is being accreted to
    the redemption value of $577.5 million over three years and
    in addition, $6.9 million of accumulated but undeclared
    dividends was recorded.

A summary of the Company’s Preferred Stock issued its
    Principal Stockholder’s family for the year ended
    December 31, 2008, is presented below (in thousands, except
    number of shares):

Number

of Shares

Amount

Balance at January 1, 2008

—

$

—

Issuance of preferred stock and warrants to purchase common
    stock, net of transaction costs

5,250,000

299,867

Accretion to redemption value

—

11,568

Accumulated but undeclared dividend requirement

—

6,854

Balance at December 31, 2008

5,250,000

$

318,289



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Subsequent
    Events

Subsequent to year-end, holders of the Preferred Stock exercised
    662,601 Warrants to purchase an aggregate of
    11,043,370 shares of the Company’s common stock at
    $6.00 per share and tendered 662,601 shares of Preferred
    Stock as settlement.

On February 5, 2009, the Company’s Board of Directors
    declared a dividend of $2.50 per preferred share to holders of
    the Preferred Stock of record on that date for a total amount of
    $24.5 million, which was paid on February 17, 2009,
    the first business day following the February 15, 2009,
    payment date.

Note 10 —

Income
    Taxes

Consolidated income (loss) before taxes and noncontrolling
    interest for domestic and foreign operations is a follows (in
    thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Domestic

$

(249,128

)

$

15,590

$

162,592

Foreign

21,103

122,689

341,654

Total

$

(228,025

)

$

138,279

$

504,246

The components of the (benefit) provision for income taxes are
    as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Federal:

Current

$

(23,985

)

$

36,850

$

58,329

Deferred

(34,335

)

(15,383

)

3,914

Foreign:

Current



—

Deferred

(52

)

(171

)

—

State:

Deferred

(1,855

)

—

—

Total income tax (benefit) provision

$

(59,700

)

$

21,591

$

62,243

The reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate and
    the Company’s effective tax rate is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Statutory federal income tax rate

(35.00

)%

35.00

%

35.00

%

Increase (decrease) in tax rate resulting from:

Foreign and U.S. tax rate differential

(2.29

)%

(20.57

)%

(16.41

)%

Tax exempt income of foreign subsidiary (Macao)

(23.77

)%

(36.56

)%

(10.20

)%

Non-deductible pre-opening expenses of foreign subsidiaries

9.15

%

11.59

%

—

%

Change in valuation allowance

22.39

%

21.16

%

1.26

%

Change in tax reserves

1.96

%

3.03

%

0.27

%

Other, net

1.38

%

1.96

%

2.42

%

Effective tax rate

(26.18

)%

15.61

%

12.34

%



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company received a

5-year

income tax exemption, which is set to expire in 2013, on its
    gaming operations in Macao. Had the Company been required to pay
    income taxes in Macao, consolidated net income would have been
    reduced by $46.4 million, $43.9 million and
    $45.2 million, respectively, and diluted earnings per share
    would have been reduced by $0.12 per share for each of the years
    ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The primary tax affected components of the Company’s net
    deferred tax assets are as follows (in thousands):

At December 31,



Deferred tax assets:

Deferred gain on the sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo

$

93,912

$

59,303

Net operating loss carryforwards

79,721

33,970

Stock-based compensation

18,736

8,848

Allowance for doubtful accounts

18,169

10,926

Pre-opening expenses

13,282

12,522

Accrued expenses

12,364

6,800

Tax credit carryforwards

10,995

—

State deferred items

1,855

—

Other

13,674

8,451

262,708

140,820

Less — valuation allowance

(92,819

)

(46,343

)

Total deferred tax assets

169,889

94,477

Deferred tax liabilities:

Property and equipment

(95,459

)

(50,559

)

Prepaid expenses

(2,883

)

(3,135

)

Other

(4,387

)

(9,865

)

Total deferred tax liabilities

(102,729

)

(63,559

)

Deferred tax asset, net

$

67,160

$

30,918

Operating loss carryforwards of the Company’s foreign
    subsidiaries were $643.7 million and $282.2 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, which begin to expire in 2009. As of
    December 31, 2008, the Company had available alternative
    minimum tax credit carryforwards of $10.4 million that may
    be used indefinitely to reduce regular federal income tax until
    exhausted. There are valuation allowances of $92.8 million
    and $46.3 million, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively,  provided on foreign net operating loss
    carryforwards and other foreign deferred tax assets, as
    management believes these assets do not meet the “more
    likely than not” criteria for recognition under
    SFAS No. 109. Management believes all other deferred
    tax assets are more likely than not to be realized due to the
    future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences and
    expected future taxable income. If the Company’s operating
    results are less than currently projected and there is no
    objectively verifiable evidence to support the realization of
    the deferred tax asset, a valuation allowance may be required to
    reduce some or all of this deferred tax asset. The reduction of
    the deferred tax asset could increase the Company’s income
    tax expense and have an adverse effect on the Company’s
    results of operations and tangible net worth in the period in
    which the allowance is recorded. As of December 31, 2008
    and 2007, no valuation allowance has been established for the
    Company’s U.S. deferred tax asset; however, the
    Company will continue to assess the need for an allowance in
    future periods.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries are accounted for as a
    temporary difference, except that deferred tax liabilities are
    not recorded for undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries
    that are deemed to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign
    jurisdictions. The Company has a plan for reinvestment of
    undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries, which
    demonstrates that such earnings will be indefinitely reinvested
    in the applicable jurisdictions. Should the Company change its
    plans, it would be required to record a significant amount of
    deferred tax liabilities. For the years ended December 31,
    2008 and 2007, the amount of undistributed earnings of foreign
    subsidiaries that the Company does not intend to repatriate was
    $840.9 million and $837.2 million, respectively.
    Should these earnings be distributed in the form of dividends or
    otherwise, the distributions would be subject to
    U.S. federal income tax at the statutory rate of 35%, less
    foreign tax credits applicable to distributions, if any. In
    addition, such distributions would be subject to withholding
    taxes in the various tax jurisdictions.

The Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48 on
    January 1, 2007. A reconciliation of the beginning and
    ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits recorded in other
    long-term liabilities is as follows (in thousands):

At December 31,



Balance at beginning of year

$

14,966

$

8,552

Additions to tax positions related to the prior year

9,239

2,209

Additions to tax positions related to the current year

8,066

4,205

Balance at end of year

$

32,271

$

14,966

Included in the balance at December 31, 2008 and 2007, are
    $14.1 million and $9.8 million, respectively, of
    uncertain tax benefits that would affect the effective income
    tax rate if recognized.

The Company’s major tax jurisdictions are the U.S., Macao,
    and Singapore. In the U.S., the Company is under examination for
    years after 2004. In Macao and Singapore, the Company is subject
    to examination for years after 2003.

The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related
    to unrecognized tax positions in the provision for income taxes
    in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. The
    Company had approximately $0.7 million and
    $0.6 million of interest accrued at December 31, 2008
    and 2007, respectively. No penalties were accrued for at
    December 31, 2008 or 2007. The Company does not expect a
    significant increase or decrease in unrecognized tax benefits
    over the next twelve months.

Note 11 —

Fair
    Value Measurements

As discussed in “— Note 2 —
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” the Company
    adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 157 with respect to
    fair value measurements of (a) non-financial assets and
    liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in
    the Company’s financial statements on a recurring basis (at
    least annually), if any, and (b) all financial assets and
    liabilities. As deferred by the FASB in January 2008, those
    certain non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized
    on a nonrecurring basis will follow the SFAS No. 157
    framework for measuring fair value beginning January 1,
    2009. Under SFAS No. 157, fair value is defined as the
    exit price, or the amount that would be received to sell an
    asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
    between market participants as of the measurement date.
    SFAS No. 157 also establishes a valuation hierarchy
    for inputs in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of
    observable inputs (inputs market participants would use based on
    market data obtained from sources independent of the Company)
    and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs (inputs that
    reflect the Company’s assumptions based upon the best
    information available in the circumstances) by requiring that
    the most observable inputs be used when available. Level 1
    inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for
    identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are quoted
    prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets,
    quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in
    markets that are not active, and inputs (other than quoted
    prices) that are observable for the assets or liabilities,
    either directly or indirectly.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the assets or
    liabilities. Categorization within the hierarchy is based upon
    the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value
    measurement.

The following table provides the assets carried at fair value
    measured on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2008 (in
    thousands):

Total Carrying

Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2008 Using:

Value at

Quoted Market

Significant Other

Significant

December 31,

Prices in Active

Observable Inputs

Unobservable Inputs


Markets (Level 1)

(Level 2)

(Level 3)

Cash equivalents(1)

$

2,458,701

$

2,458,701

$

—

$

—

Interest rate caps(2)

$

3,706

$

—

$

3,706

$

—

(1)

The Company has short-term investments classified as cash
    equivalents as the original maturities are less than
    90 days.

(2)

The Company has fourteen interest rate cap agreements with an
    aggregate fair value of approximately $3.7 million, based
    on quoted market values from the institutions holding the
    agreements as of December 31, 2008.

Note 12 —

Mall
    Sale

The
    Grand Canal Shoppes at The Venetian Las Vegas

On April 12, 2004, the Company entered into an agreement to
    sell The Grand Canal Shoppes and lease certain restaurant and
    other retail space at the casino level of The Venetian Las Vegas
    (the “Master Lease”) to GGP for approximately
    $766.0 million (the “Mall Sale”). The Mall Sale
    closed on May 17, 2004, and the Company realized a gain of
    $417.6 million in connection with the Mall Sale. Under the
    Master Lease agreement, The Venetian Las Vegas leased nineteen
    spaces on the casino level of The Venetian Las Vegas currently
    occupied by various tenants to GGP for 89 years with annual
    rent of one dollar and GGP assumed the various leases. Under
    generally accepted accounting principles, the Master Lease
    agreement does not qualify as a sale of the real property
    assets, which real property was not separately legally demised.
    Accordingly, $109.2 million of the transaction has been
    deferred as prepaid operating lease payments to The Venetian Las
    Vegas, which will amortize into income on a straight-line basis
    over the

89-year

lease term. During each of the years ended December 31,
    2008, 2007 and 2006, $1.2 million of this deferred item was
    amortized and is included in convention, retail and other
    revenue. In addition, the Company agreed with GGP to:
    (i) continue to be obligated to fulfill certain lease
    termination and asset purchase agreements as further described
    in “— Note 13 — Commitments and
    Contingencies — Other Ventures and Commitments”;
    (ii) lease the Blue Man Group theater space located within
    The Grand Canal Shoppes from GGP for a period of 25 years
    with fixed minimum rent of $3.3 million per year with cost
    of living adjustments; (iii) operate the Gondola ride under
    an operating agreement for a period of 25 years for an
    annual fee of $3.5 million; and (iv) lease certain
    office space from GGP for a period of 10 years, subject to
    extension options for a period of up to 65 years, with
    annual rent of approximately $0.9 million. The lease
    payments under clauses (ii) through (iv) above are
    subject to automatic increases beginning on the sixth lease
    year. The net present value of the lease payments under
    clauses (ii) through (iv) on the closing date of the
    sale was $77.2 million. Under generally accepted accounting
    principles, a portion of the transaction must be deferred in an
    amount equal to the present value of the minimum lease payments
    set forth in the lease back agreements. This deferred gain will
    be amortized to reduce lease expense on a straight-line basis
    over the life of the leases. $3.5 million of this deferred
    item was amortized during each of the years ended
    December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and was included as an
    offset to convention, retail and other expense.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2008, the Company was obligated under
    (ii), (iii), and (iv) above to make future payments as
    follows (in thousands):


$

7,884


8,043


8,043


8,043


8,043

Thereafter

121,523

$

161,579

The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo

The Shoppes at The Palazzo opened on January 18, 2008, with
    some tenants not yet open and with construction of certain
    portions of the mall not yet completed. The Company contracted
    to sell The Shoppes at The Palazzo to GGP pursuant to a purchase
    and sale agreement dated as of April 12, 2004, as amended
    (the “Amended Agreement”). The total purchase price to
    be paid by GGP for The Shoppes at The Palazzo is determined by
    taking The Shoppes at The Palazzo’s net operating income,
    as defined in the Amended Agreement, for months 19 through 30 of
    its operations (assuming that the rent and other periodic
    payments due from all tenants in month 30 was actually due in
    each of months 19 through 30, provided that this

12-month

period can be delayed if certain conditions are satisfied)
    divided by a capitalization rate. The capitalization rate is
    0.06 for every dollar of net operating income up to
    $38.0 million and 0.08 for every dollar of net operating
    income above $38.0 million. On the closing date of the
    sale, February 29, 2008, GGP made its initial purchase
    price payment of $290.8 million based on projected net
    operating income for the first 12 months of operations
    (only taking into account tenants open for business or paying
    rent as of February 29, 2008). Pursuant to the Amended
    Agreement, periodic adjustments to the purchase price (up or
    down, but never to less than $250.0 million) are to be made
    based on projected net operating income for the then upcoming
    12 months. Subject to adjustments for certain audit and
    other issues, the final adjustment to the purchase price will be
    made on the

30-month

anniversary of the closing date (or later if certain conditions
    are satisfied) and will be based on the previously described
    formula. For all purchase price and purchase price adjustment
    calculations, “net operating income” will be
    calculated by using the “accrual” method of
    accounting. Pursuant to the Amended Agreement, the Company
    received an additional $4.6 million in June 2008,
    representing the adjustment payment at the fourth month after
    closing. Subsequent to year-end, the Company agreed in principle
    with GGP to suspend the scheduled purchase price adjustments,
    subsequent to the June 2008 payment, until March 2010. Due to
    the general downturn in national and local retail, economic and
    market conditions, there can be no assurance of what the final
    purchase price will be, although based on current estimates, the
    Company believes that it will be in excess of costs incurred in
    constructing and developing The Shoppes at The Palazzo, of which
    $360.6 million has been capitalized as of December 31,
    2008. If circumstances change, the Company may be required to
    record an impairment charge in the future. Based on GGP’s
    current financial condition, there can be no assurance that GGP
    will make its future periodic payments.

In the Amended Agreement, the Company agreed to lease certain
    restaurant and retail space on the casino level of The Palazzo
    to GGP pursuant to a master lease agreement (“The Palazzo
    Master Lease”). Under The Palazzo Master Lease, which was
    executed concurrently with, and as a part of, the closing on the
    sale of The Shoppes at The Palazzo to GGP on February 29,
    2008, The Palazzo leased nine restaurant and retail spaces on
    the casino level of The Palazzo, currently occupied by various
    tenants, to GGP for 89 years with annual rent of one dollar
    and GGP assumed the various tenant operating leases for those
    spaces. Under generally accepted accounting principles, The
    Palazzo Master Lease does not qualify as a sale of the real
    property, which real property was not separately legally
    demised. Accordingly, $41.8 million of the mall sale
    transaction has been deferred as prepaid operating lease
    payments to The Palazzo, which is amortized into income on a
    straight-line basis over the

89-year

lease term. An



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

additional $7.0 million of the total proceeds from the mall
    sale transaction has been deferred as unearned revenues as of
    December 31, 2008. This balance will increase as additional
    purchase price proceeds are received.

In addition, the Company agreed with GGP to lease certain spaces
    located within The Shoppes at The Palazzo for a period of
    10 years with total fixed minimum rents of
    $0.7 million per year, subject to extension options for a
    period of up to 10 years and automatic increases beginning
    on the second lease year. As of December 31, 2008, the
    Company was obligated to make future payments of approximately
    $0.7 million for the two years ended December 31, 2009
    and 2010, respectively, $0.8 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, and
    $4.0 million thereafter. Under generally accepted
    accounting principles, a gain on the sale has not been recorded
    as the Company has continuing involvement in the transaction
    related to the completion of construction on the remainder of
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo, certain activities to be performed
    on behalf of GGP and the uncertainty of the final sales price,
    which will be determined in 2010 as previously described.
    Therefore, $243.9 million of the mall sale transaction has
    been recorded as deferred proceeds from the sale as of
    December 31, 2008, which accrues interest at an imputed
    interest rate offset by (i) imputed rental income and
    (ii) rent payments made to GGP related to those spaces
    leased back from GGP. The property sold to GGP will remain as
    assets of the Company with depreciation continuing to be
    recorded until the final sales price determination has been made.

Note 13 —

Commitments
    and Contingencies

Litigation

The Company is involved in other litigation in addition to those
    noted below, arising in the normal course of business.
    Management has made certain estimates for potential litigation
    costs based upon consultation with legal counsel. Actual results
    could differ from these estimates; however, in the opinion of
    management, such litigation and claims will not have a material
    effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The
    Palazzo Construction Litigation

Lido Casino Resort, LLC (“Lido”), formerly a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and now merged into VCR,
    and its construction manager, Taylor International Corp.
    (“Taylor”), filed suit in March 2006 in the
    United States District Court for the District of Nevada
    (the “District Court”) against Malcolm Drilling
    Company, Inc. (“Malcolm”), the contractor on The
    Palazzo project responsible for completing certain foundation
    work (the “District Court Case”). Lido and Taylor
    claimed in the District Court Case that Malcolm was in default
    of its contract for performing defective work, failing to
    correct defective work, failing to complete its work and causing
    delay to the project. Malcolm responded by filing a Notice of a
    Lien with the Clerk of Clark County, Nevada in March 2006 in the
    amount of approximately $19.0 million (the
    “Lien”). In April 2006, Lido and Taylor moved in the
    District Court Case to strike or, in the alternative, to reduce
    the amount of, the Lien, claiming, among other things, that the
    Lien was excessive for including claims for disruption and
    delay, which Lido and Taylor claim are not lienable under Nevada
    law (the “Lien Motion”). Malcolm responded in April
    2006 by filing a complaint against Lido and Taylor in District
    Court of Clark County, Nevada seeking to foreclose on the Lien
    against Taylor, claiming breach of contract, a cardinal change
    in the underlying contract, unjust enrichment against Lido and
    Taylor and bad faith and fraud against Taylor (the “State
    Court Case”), and simultaneously filed a motion in the
    District Court Case, seeking to dismiss the District Court Case
    on abstention grounds (the “Abstention Motion”). In
    response, in June 2006, Lido filed a motion to dismiss the State
    Court Case based on the principle of the “prior
    pending” District Court Case (the “Motion to
    Dismiss”). In June 2006, the Abstention Motion was granted
    in part by the United States District Court, the District Court
    Case was stayed pending the outcome of the Motion to Dismiss in
    the State Court Case and the Lien Motion was denied without
    prejudice. In January 2008, the parties agreed to the dismissal
    of the District Court Case without prejudice. Prior to agreeing
    on that dismissal, Lido and Malcolm entered into a stipulation
    under which Lido withdrew the Motion to Dismiss, and in July
    2006 filed a replacement lien motion in the State Court Case.
    The lien motion in the State Court Case was denied in August
    2006 and Lido and Taylor filed a permitted interlocutory notice
    of appeal to the Supreme Court of Nevada in September 2006. In
    April 2007,



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Malcolm filed an Amended Notice of Lien with the Clerk of Clark
    County, Nevada in the amount of approximately $16.7 million
    plus interest, costs and attorney’s fees. In August 2007,
    Malcolm filed a motion for partial summary judgment, seeking the
    dismissal of the counterclaim filed in the State Court Case by
    Lido to the extent the claim sought lost profits. After
    argument, the motion for partial summary judgment was denied
    without prejudice in October 2007, and a conforming order was
    entered in December 2007. Argument on the appeal of the denial
    of the lien motion in the State Court was heard by the Supreme
    Court in March 2008. In January 2008, Malcolm filed a series of
    motions and again sought summary judgment on the counterclaim
    filed in the State Court Case and VCR, as successor in interest
    to Lido, and Taylor sought summary judgment on certain of
    Malcolm’s claims. The motions for summary judgment were all
    denied without prejudice except that claims of Malcolm totaling
    approximately $675,000 were dismissed. In May 2008, the Supreme
    Court vacated the order denying the motion to strike the
    mechanic’s lien and remanded to the trial court for a
    decision on the lien during the upcoming trial. The case is
    currently in trial. In November 2008, the Court denied a series
    of motions filed by Lido and Taylor seeking to dismiss a number
    of Malcolm’s claims except that the bad faith and
    fraudulent concealment claims were dismissed. Management has
    determined that based on proceedings to date, an adverse outcome
    is not probable. VCR, as successor in interest to Lido, intends
    to defend itself against the claims pending in the State Court
    Case.

Litigation
    Relating to Macao Operations

On October 15, 2004, Richard Suen and Round Square Company
    Limited filed an action against LVSC, Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
    (“LVSI”), Sheldon G. Adelson and William P. Weidner in
    the District Court of Clark County, Nevada, asserting a breach
    of an alleged agreement to pay a success fee of
    $5.0 million and 2.0% of the net profit from the
    Company’s Macao resort operations to the plaintiffs as well
    as other related claims. In March 2005, LVSC was dismissed as a
    party without prejudice based on a stipulation to do so between
    the parties. On May 17, 2005, the plaintiffs filed their
    first amended complaint. On February 2, 2006, defendants
    filed a motion for partial summary judgment with respect to
    plaintiffs’ fraud claims against all the defendants. On
    March 16, 2006, an order was filed by the court granting
    defendants’ motion for partial summary judgment. Pursuant
    to the order filed March 16, 2006, plaintiffs’ fraud
    claims set forth in the first amended complaint were dismissed
    with prejudice as against all defendants. The order also
    dismissed with prejudice the first amended complaint against
    defendants Sheldon G. Adelson and William P. Weidner. On
    May 24, 2008, the jury returned a verdict for the
    plaintiffs in the amount of $43.8 million. On June 30,
    2008, a judgment was entered in this matter in the amount of
    $58.6 million (including pre-judgment interest). The
    Company has begun the appeals process, including its filings on
    July 15, 2008, with the trial court of a motion for
    judgment as a matter of law or in the alternative, a new trial
    and a motion to strike, alter

and/or

amend
    the judgment. The grounds for these motions include
    (1) insufficient evidence that Suen conferred a benefit on
    LVSI, (2) the improper admission of testimony, (3) the
    court’s refusal to give jury instructions that the law
    presumes that government officials have performed their duties
    regularly, and that the law has been obeyed, and (4) jury
    instructions that improperly permitted the plaintiff to recover
    for the services of others. These motions were heard by the
    trial court on December 8, 2008, and were denied. The
    Company intends to continue to vigorously pursue available
    appeals up to the Nevada Supreme Court. The Company believes
    that it has valid bases in law and fact to overturn or appeal
    the verdict. As a result, the Company believes that the
    likelihood that the amount of the judgment will be affirmed is
    not probable, and, accordingly, that the amount of any loss
    cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Because the Company
    believes that this potential loss is not probable or estimable,
    it has not recorded any reserves or contingencies related to
    this legal matter. In the event that the Company’s
    assumptions used to evaluate this matter as neither probable nor
    estimable change in future periods, it may be required to record
    a liability for an adverse outcome.

On January 26, 2006, Clive Basset Jones, Darryl Steven
    Turok (a/k/a Dax Turok) and Cheong Jose Vai Chi (a/k/a Cliff
    Cheong), filed an action against LVSC, LVSLLC, Venetian Venture
    Development, LLC (“Venetian Venture Development”) and
    various unspecified individuals and companies in the District
    Court of Clark County, Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of
    an agreement to pay a success fee in an amount equal to 5% of
    the ownership interest in the entity that owns and operates the
    Macao gaming subconcession as well as other related claims. In



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

April 2006, LVSC was dismissed as a party without prejudice
    based on a stipulation to do so between the parties. Discovery
    has concluded in this matter and the case is currently set for
    trial in June 2009. Management believes that the
    plaintiff’s case against the Company is without merit. The
    Company intends to defend this matter vigorously.

On February 5, 2007, Asian American Entertainment
    Corporation, Limited (“AAEC”) filed an action against
    LVSI, VCR, Venetian Venture Development, William P. Weidner and
    David Friedman in the United States District Court for the
    District of Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of contract by
    LVSI, VCR and Venetian Venture Development of an agreement under
    which AAEC would work to obtain a gaming license in Macao and,
    if successful, AAEC would jointly operate a casino, hotel and
    related facilities in Macao with Venetian Venture Development
    and Venetian Venture Development would receive fees and a
    minority equity interest in the venture and breach of fiduciary
    duties by all of the defendants. The plaintiffs have requested
    an unspecified amount of actual, compensatory and punitive
    damages, and disgorgement of profits related to our Macao gaming
    license. The Company filed a motion to dismiss on July 11,
    2007. On August 1, 2007, the Court granted defendants’
    motion to dismiss the complaint against all defendants without
    prejudice. The plaintiffs have appealed this decision.
    Management believes that the plaintiff’s case against the
    Company is without merit. The Company intends to defend this
    matter vigorously.

On January 2, 2008, Hong Kong ferry operator Norte Oeste
    Expresso Ltd. (“Northwest Express”) filed an action
    against the Chief Executive of the Macao Special Administrative
    Region of the People’s Republic of China, with the
    Company’s indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Cotai Waterjets
    (Macau) Limited (“Cotai Waterjets”), as an interested
    party, challenging the award of a ferry concession to Cotai
    Waterjets to operate a ferry service between Hong Kong and
    Macao. The basis of the legal challenge is that under Macao law,
    all concessions related to the provision of a public service
    must be awarded through a public tender process. On
    February 19, 2009, the Court of Second Instance in Macao
    held that it was unlawful for the Macao government to have
    granted the ferry concession to Cotai Waterjets without engaging
    in a public tender process, and that the ferry concession award
    to Cotai Waterjets was void. The Company relied on the advice of
    counsel in obtaining the ferry concession and believes that it
    has complied with all applicable laws, procedures and Macao
    practice. The Company believes that all concessions to operate
    ferries to and from Macao were awarded in the same fashion as
    the concession awarded to Cotai Waterjets. The Company intends
    to appeal the decision to the Court of Final Appeal in Macao.
    The Company believes that the Macao government is likely to
    appeal the decision as well. The Company has been advised by
    counsel that the appeals process could take several months and
    will cooperate with the Macao government during this period to
    resolve this matter. The Company expects to continue to operate
    its ferry service until a decision on the appeal is rendered or
    the matter is otherwise resolved. If the decision is upheld by
    the Court of Final Appeal, the Cotai Waterjets ferry concession
    will be void, absent other action by the Macao government. If
    the Company is unable to continue to operate its ferry service,
    it will need to develop alternative means of attracting and
    transporting visitors to its Cotai Strip properties. If the
    Company is unable to do so, a resulting significant loss of
    visitors to its Cotai Strip properties could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

Stockholder
    Derivative Litigation

On November 26, 2008, Shmyer Breuer and David Barfield
    filed a shareholder derivative action (the “Breuer
    action”) on behalf of the Company in the District Court of
    Clark County, Nevada, against Sheldon G. Adelson, Irwin Chafetz,
    Charles D. Forman, George P. Koo, Michael A. Leven, James L.
    Purcell, Irwin A. Siegel and William P. Weidner, the current
    members of the Board of Directors. The complaint alleges, among
    other things, breaches of fiduciary duties in connection with
    (a) the Company’s ongoing construction and development
    projects and (b) the Company’s securing debt and
    equity financing during 2008. A motion to dismiss the complaint
    was filed in January 2009 on behalf of all of the directors the
    Company.

On January 16, 2009, Caleb Hartmann filed a shareholder
    derivative action (the “Hartmann action”) on behalf of
    the Company in the District Court of Clark County, Nevada,
    against Messrs. Adelson, Chafetz, Forman, Koo,



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Leven, Purcell, Siegel and Weidner, the current members of the
    Board of Directors. The complaint raises the same claims as in
    the Breuer action. The Hartmann action has been consolidated
    with the Breuer action.

On February 6, 2009, Frank Fosbre, Jr, filed a shareholder
    derivative action (the “Fosbre action”) on behalf of
    the Company in the District Court of Clark County, Nevada,
    against Messrs. Adelson, Chafetz, Forman, Koo, Leven,
    Purcell, Siegel, Weidner and Andrew Heyer, a former member of
    the Board of Directors. The complaint raises substantially the
    same claims as in the Breuer action and the Hartmann action. The
    Fosbre action is being consolidated with the Breuer action.

The plaintiffs in the consolidated Breuer, Hartmann and Fosbre
    actions have advised the Company that they will file a single
    amended and consolidated complaint in March 2009. The Company
    and the other defendants anticipate bringing a motion to dismiss
    that complaint.

China
    Matters

The State Administration of Foreign Exchange in China
    (“SAFE”) regulates foreign currency exchange
    transactions and other business dealings in China. SAFE has made
    inquiries and requested and obtained documents relating to
    certain payments made by the Company’s wholly-owned foreign
    enterprises (“WOFEs”) to counterparties and other
    vendors in China. These WOFEs were established to conduct
    non-gaming marketing activities in China and to create goodwill
    in China and Macao for the Company’s operations in Macao.
    The Company is fully cooperating with these pending inquiries.
    The Company does not believe that the resolution of these
    pending inquiries will have a material adverse effect on its
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Macao
    Concession and Subconcession

On June 26, 2002, the Macao government granted a concession
    to operate casinos in Macao through June 26, 2022, subject
    to certain qualifications, to Galaxy Casino Company Limited
    (“Galaxy”), a consortium of Macao and Hong Kong-based
    investors. During December 2002, VML and Galaxy entered into a
    subconcession agreement which was recognized and approved by the
    Macao government and allows VML to develop and operate casino
    projects, including the Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao and Four
    Seasons Macao, separately from Galaxy. Beginning on
    December 26, 2017, the Macao government may redeem the
    subconcession agreement by providing the Company at least one
    year prior notice.

Under the subconcession, the Company is obligated to pay to the
    Macao government an annual premium with a fixed portion and a
    variable portion based on the number and type of gaming tables
    it employs and gaming machines it operates. The fixed portion of
    the premium is equal to 30.0 million patacas (approximately
    $3.8 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2008). The variable portion is equal to
    300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for
    certain kinds of games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming
    table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical or
    mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines
    (approximately $37,580, $18,790 and $125, respectively, at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2008), subject to
    a minimum of 45.0 million patacas (or $5.6 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2008). The Company
    is also obligated to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross
    gaming revenues and applicable withholding taxes. The Company
    must also contribute 4% of its gross gaming revenue to utilities
    designated by the Macao government, a portion of which must be
    used for promotion of tourism in Macao. Based on the number and
    types of gaming tables employed and gaming machines in operation
    as of December 31, 2008, the Company was obligated under
    its subconcession to make minimum future payments of
    approximately $33.1 million in each of the next five years
    and approximately $281.2 million thereafter through June
    2022. These amounts are expected to increase substantially as
    the Company completes its other Cotai Strip properties.

Currently, the gaming tax in Macao is calculated as a percentage
    of gross gaming revenue. However, unlike Nevada, gross gaming
    revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a
    result, if the Company extends credit to its customers in Macao
    and is unable to collect on the related receivables, the Company
    must pay taxes on



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

its winnings from these customers even though it was unable to
    collect on the related receivables. If the laws are not changed,
    the Company’s business in Macao may not be able to realize
    the full benefits of extending credit to its customers. Although
    there are proposals to revise the gaming tax laws in Macao,
    there can be no assurance that the laws will be changed.

Singapore
    Development Project

On August 23, 2006, the Company entered into the
    Development Agreement with the STB, which requires the Company
    to construct and operate the Marina Bay Sands in accordance with
    the Company’s proposal for the integrated resort and in
    accordance with the agreement. The Company is continuing to
    finalize various design aspects of the integrated resort and is
    in the process of finalizing its cost estimates for the project.
    As discussed in “— Note 8 —
    Long-Term Debt — Singapore Related Debt —
    Singapore Permanent Facilities,” the Company entered into
    the SGD 5.44 billion (approximately $3.78 billion at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2008) Singapore Permanent Facility Agreement to fund a
    significant portion of the construction, operating and other
    development costs of the Marina Bay Sands.

Leases

Energy
    Services Agreements

During 1997, VCR, Interface Group-Nevada Inc.
    (“Interface”) and others entered into separate energy
    service agreements with a heating, ventilation and air
    conditioning (“HVAC”) provider (the “HVAC
    Provider”). Under the terms of the energy services
    agreement and other separate energy services agreements, HVAC
    energy and services will be purchased by VCR, Interface and
    others over initial terms expiring in 2009 with an option to
    collectively extend the terms of their agreements for two
    consecutive five-year periods. The HVAC plant was constructed on
    land owned by the Company and leased to the HVAC Provider. The
    HVAC equipment is owned by the HVAC Provider, which paid all
    costs (“HVAC Costs”) in connection with the purchase
    and installation of the HVAC equipment. The total HVAC Costs
    were $70.0 million. The charges payable under the separate
    energy services agreements include a fixed component applied to
    the HVAC Costs paid by the HVAC Provider, reimbursement of
    operational and related costs and a management fee. Subsequent
    to year-end, the Company and the HVAC Provider have agreed in
    principle to an extension of the HVAC agreement for an
    additional ten-year term.

As of December 31, 2008, VCR and Interface were obligated
    under the energy services agreements to make future minimum
    payments of $3.4 million during the year ended
    December 31, 2009. Expenses incurred under the energy
    services agreements were $6.8 million for each of the three
    years ended December 31, 2008.

Operating
    Lease Agreements

The Company leases real estate and various equipment under
    operating lease arrangements and is also party to several
    service agreements with terms in excess of one year.

At December 31, 2008, the Company was obligated under
    non-cancelable operating leases to make future minimum lease
    payments as follows (in thousands):


$

8,429


5,506


4,046


3,372


2,654

Thereafter

108,300

Total minimum payments

$

132,307



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Expenses incurred under operating lease agreements totaled
    $21.5 million, $12.2 million and $8.3 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

The Company is party to other operating lease agreements, which
    are short-term and variable-rate in nature. Expenses incurred
    under these operating lease agreements totaled
    $1.7 million, $2.1 million and $1.5 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Other
    Ventures and Commitments

The Company has entered into employment agreements with seven of
    the Company’s corporate senior executives, with remaining
    terms of one to four years. As of December 31, 2008, the
    Company was obligated to make future payments of
    $6.9 million, $3.0 million, $3.1 million and
    $1.1 million during the years ended December 31, 2009,
    2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively.

During 2003, the Company entered into three lease termination
    and asset purchase agreements with The Grand Canal Shoppes
    tenants. In each case, the Company has obtained title to
    leasehold improvements and other fixed assets, which were
    originally purchased by The Grand Canal Shoppes tenants, and
    which have been recorded at estimated fair market value, which
    approximated the discounted present value of the Company’s
    obligation to the former tenants. As of December 31, 2008,
    the Company was obligated under these agreements to make future
    payments of $0.7 million for each of the next four years,
    $0.6 million in the fifth year and $6.8 million
    thereafter.

In January 2008, the Company entered into agreements to purchase
    four ferries at an aggregate cost of $72.0 million to be
    built for our Macao operations. As of December 31, 2008,
    the Company was obligated to make future payments of
    $10.8 million.

The Company has entered into agreements with Starwood
    Hotels & Resorts Worldwide (“Starwood”) and
    Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts (“Shangri-La”) to
    manage hotels and serviced luxury apartment hotel units on the
    Company’s Cotai Strip parcels 5 and 6, and for Starwood to
    brand the Company’s Las Vegas condominium project (the St.
    Regis Residences) in connection with the sales and marketing of
    these condominium units. Due to the recent suspension of the
    Company’s projects in Macao and Las Vegas, the Company is
    negotiating standstill agreements with Starwood, which it
    expects to be finalized in the first quarter of 2009. If
    negotiations are unsuccessful or if the Company does not obtain
    a similar agreement with Shangri-La, Starwood and
    Shangri-La would have the right to terminate their
    agreements with the Company, which would result in the Company
    having to find new managers and brands for the above-described
    projects. Such measures could have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows, including requiring the Company to write-off its
    $20.0 million investment related to the St. Regis
    Residences.

Malls
    at The Venetian Macao and Four Seasons Macao

The Company leases mall space in The Venetian Macao and Four
    Seasons Macao to various retailers. These leases are
    non-cancellable operating leases with lease periods that vary
    from 6 months to 10 years. The leases include minimum
    base rents with escalated contingent rent clauses. At
    December 31, 2008, the minimum future rentals on these
    non-cancelable leases are as follows (in thousands, at exchange
    rates in effect on December 31, 2008):


$

135,539


125,304


86,283


68,464


51,354

Thereafter

135,057

Total minimum future rentals

$

602,001



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The total minimum future rentals do not include the escalated
    contingent rent clauses. Contingent rentals amounted to
    $2.1 million and $0.3 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 and the period ended December 31,
    2007. As further described in
    “— Note 1 — Organization and
    Business of Company — Development Financing
    Strategy,” the Company is considering the sale of one or
    both of these malls.

Note 14 —

Stock-Based
    Employee Compensation

The Company has two nonqualified stock option plans, the 1997
    Plan and the 2004 Plan, which are described below. The plans
    provide for the granting of stock options pursuant to the
    applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and
    regulations.

LVSLLC
    1997 Fixed Stock Option Plan

The 1997 Plan provides for 19,952,457 shares (on a
    post-split basis) of common stock of LVSLLC to be reserved for
    issuance to officers and other key employees or consultants of
    LVSLLC or any LVSLLC Affiliates or Subsidiaries (each as defined
    in the 1997 Plan) pursuant to options granted under the 1997
    Plan.

The 1997 Plan provides that the Principal Stockholder may, at
    any time, assume the 1997 Plan or certain obligations under the
    1997 Plan, in which case the Principal Stockholder will have all
    the rights, powers and responsibilities granted LVSLLC or its
    Board of Directors under the 1997 Plan with respect to such
    assumed obligations. The Principal Stockholder assumed
    LVSLLC’s obligations under the 1997 Plan to sell shares to
    optionees upon the exercise of their options with respect to
    options granted prior to July 15, 2004. LVSLLC is
    responsible for all other obligations under the 1997 Plan. LVSC
    assumed all of the obligations of LVSLLC and the Principal
    Stockholder under the 1997 Plan (other than the obligation of
    the Principal Stockholder to issue 984,321 shares under
    options granted prior to July 15, 2004), in connection with
    its initial public offering.

The Board of Directors agreed not to grant any additional stock
    options under the 1997 Plan following the initial public
    offering and there were no options outstanding under it during
    the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan

The Company adopted the 2004 Plan for grants of options to
    purchase its common stock. The purpose of the 2004 Plan is to
    give the Company a competitive edge in attracting, retaining,
    and motivating employees, directors and consultants and to
    provide the Company with a stock plan providing incentives
    directly related to increases in its stockholder value. Any of
    the Company’s subsidiaries’ or affiliates’
    employees, directors or officers and many of its consultants are
    eligible for awards under the 2004 Plan. The 2004 Plan provides
    for an aggregate of 26,344,000 shares of the Company’s
    common stock to be available for awards. The 2004 Plan has a
    term of ten years and no further awards may be granted after the
    expiration of the term. The compensation committee may grant
    awards of nonqualified stock options, incentive (qualified)
    stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock
    awards, restricted stock units, stock bonus awards, performance
    compensation awards or any combination of the foregoing. As of
    December 31, 2008, there were 14,370,825 shares
    available for grant under the 2004 Plan.

Stock option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to
    the fair market value (as defined in the 2004 Plan) of the
    Company’s stock on the date of grant. The outstanding stock
    options generally vest over four years and have ten-year
    contractual terms. Compensation cost for all stock option
    grants, which all have graded vesting, is net of estimated
    forfeitures and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the
    awards’ respective requisite service periods. The Company
    estimates the fair value of stock options using the
    Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Expected volatilities are
    based on a combination of the Company’s historical
    volatility and the historical volatilities from a selection of
    companies from the Company’s peer group due to the
    Company’s lack of historical information. The Company used
    the simplified method for estimating expected option life, as
    the options qualify as “plain-vanilla” options. The
    risk-free interest rate for periods equal to the expected term
    of the stock option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield
    curve in effect at the time of grant.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the grant
    date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
    following weighted average assumptions:




Weighted average volatility

36.71

%

30.60

%

31.25

%

Expected term (in years)

6.4

6.0

6.0

Risk-free rate

2.97

%

4.51

%

4.54

%

Expected dividends

—

—

—

A summary of the status of the Company’s 2004 Plan for the
    year ended December 31, 2008, is presented below:

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Remaining

Aggregate

Exercise

Contractual

Intrinsic

Shares

Price

Life (Years)

Value

Outstanding at January 1, 2008

6,926,057

$

63.85

Granted

4,972,520

65.97

Exercised

(181,862

)

37.58

Forfeited

(1,058,230

)

73.76

Outstanding at December 31, 2008

10,658,485

$

64.30

8.37

$

—

Exercisable at December 31, 2008

1,905,314

$

54.75

7.19

$

—

Restricted
    Stock Awards

A summary of the status of the Company’s unvested
    restricted shares for the year ended December 31, 2008, is
    presented below:

Weighted Average

Grant Date

Shares

Fair Value

Unvested at January 1, 2008

95,927

$

65.93

Granted

26,657

71.67

Vested

(41,391

)

62.14

Forfeited

(4,207

)

75.99

Unvested at December 31, 2008

76,986

$

69.41

As of December 31, 2008, there was $154.3 million of
    unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures of
    8.0% per year, related to unvested stock options and there was
    $2.7 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to
    unvested restricted stock. The stock option and restricted stock
    costs are expected to be recognized over a weighted average
    period of 3.3 years and 1.5 years, respectively.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The stock-based compensation activity for the 2004 Plan is as
    follows for the three years ended December 31, 2008 (in
    thousands, except weighted average grant date fair values):

Year Ended December 31,




Compensation expense:

Stock options

$

50,858

$

30,845

$

13,470

Restricted stock

2,996

2,379

1,258

$

53,854

$

33,224

$

14,728

Income tax benefit recognized in the consolidated statement of
    operations

$

12,860

$

8,155

$

3,618

Compensation cost capitalized as part of property and equipment

$

5,789

$

3,478

$

2,090

Stock options granted

4,973

3,323

3,164

Weighted average grant date fair value

$

26.85

$

32.60

$

21.24

Stock options exercised:

Intrinsic value

$

8,088

$

44,463

$

10,299

Cash received

$

6,834

$

30,221

$

7,226

Tax benefit realized for tax deductions from stock-based
    compensation

$

1,117

$

7,526

$

1,876

Note 15 —

Employee
    Benefit Plans

The Company is self-insured for health care and workers
    compensation benefits for its U.S. employees. The liability
    for claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not filed
    is included in other accrued liabilities in the consolidated
    balance sheet.

Participation in the VCR 401(k) employee savings plan is
    available for all full-time employees after a three-month
    probation period. The savings plan allows participants to defer,
    on a pre-tax basis, a portion of their salary and accumulate
    tax-deferred earnings as a retirement fund. The Company matches
    150% of the first $390 of employee contributions and 50% of
    employee contributions in excess of $390 up to a maximum of 5%
    of participating employee’s eligible gross wages. For the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the
    Company’s matching contributions under the savings plan
    were $6.2 million, $5.0 million and $4.5 million,
    respectively.

Participation in VML’s provident retirement fund is
    available for all permanent employees after a three-month
    probation period. VML contributes 5% of each employee’s
    basic salary to the fund and the employee is eligible to receive
    30% of these contributions after working for three consecutive
    years, gradually increasing to 100% after working for ten years.
    For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    VML’s contributions into the provident fund were
    $18.4 million, $8.5 million and $4.9 million,
    respectively.

Note 16 —

Related
    Party Transactions

The Company paid approximately $5.9 million and
    $4.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2007
    and 2006, respectively, for travel-related services to a travel
    agent and charter tour operator, which is controlled by the
    Principal Stockholder. An immaterial amount was paid to the
    travel agent and charter tour operator during the year ended
    December 31, 2008.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Principal
    Stockholder purchased certain banquet room and catering goods
    and services from the Company of approximately
    $1.0 million. No such goods or services were purchased
    during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.

The Company purchased hotel guest amenities from a company that
    is controlled by the Principal Stockholder’s brother. The
    total amount paid was approximately $1.0 million and
    $1.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2007
    and 2006, respectively. No such goods were purchased during the
    year ended December 31, 2008.

During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    the Company incurred and paid certain expenses totaling $6.4
    million, $2.0 million and $1.3 million, respectively, to its
    Principal Stockholder related to the Company’s use of his
    personal aircraft for business purposes. In addition, during the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company
    charged and received from the Principal Stockholder $8.9
    million, $5.3 million and $3.3 million, respectively, related to
    aviation costs incurred by the Company for the Principal
    Stockholder’s use of Company aviation personnel and assets
    for personal purposes.

During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, a senior vice
    president of the Company received construction-related services
    from one of the Company’s subsidiaries. Although the final
    value of such services has not been determined, the amount is
    not material to the accompanying consolidated financial
    statements.

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company sold
    to the Principal Stockholder’s family, in a private
    placement transaction, $475.0 million of its Convertible
    Senior Notes. In November 2008, concurrent with the
    Company’s issuance of common stock, Preferred Stock and
    Warrants, the Principal Stockholder’s family exercised the
    conversion feature of the Convertible Senior Notes for
    86,363,636 shares of the Company’s common stock at a
    conversion price of $5.50 per share. See
    “— Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt — Corporate and U.S. Related
    Debt — Convertible Senior Notes” and
    “— Note 9 — Stockholders’
    Equity.”

During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company
    purchased the lease interest and assets of Carnevale Coffee Bar,
    LLC, in which the Principal Stockholder is a partner, for $3.1
    million, payable in installments of $0.6 million during 2003,
    and approximately $0.3 million annually over 10 years, beginning
    in 2004 through September 1, 2013.

Note 17 —

Segment
    Information

The Company’s principal operating and developmental
    activities occur in three geographic areas: Las Vegas, Macao and
    Singapore. The Company reviews the results of operations for
    each of its key operating segments: The Venetian Las Vegas,
    which includes the Sands Expo Center; The Palazzo; Sands Macao;
    The Venetian Macao; Four Seasons Macao; and Other Asia
    (comprised primarily of the ferry operations). The Company also
    reviews construction and development activities for each of its
    primary projects: The Venetian Las Vegas; The Palazzo; Sands
    Macao; The Venetian Macao; Four Seasons Macao; Other Asia
    (comprised of the ferry operations and various other operations
    that are ancillary to the Company’s properties in Macao);
    Marina Bay Sands in Singapore; Other Development Projects (on
    Cotai Strip parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8); and Corporate and Other
    (comprised primarily of airplanes, St. Regis Residences and
    Sands Bethlehem). The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo
    operating segments are managed as a single integrated resort and
    have been aggregated as one reportable segment (collectively,
    the “Las Vegas Operating Properties”), considering
    their similar economic characteristics, types of customers,
    types of service and products, the regulatory business
    environment of the operations within each segment and the
    Company’s organizational and management reporting
    structure. The information for the years ended December 31,
    2007 and



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

2006, have been reclassified to conform to the current
    presentation. The Company’s segment information is as
    follows as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and for the
    three years ended December 31, 2008 (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Net Revenues

Las Vegas Operating Properties

$

1,335,032

$

984,125

$

959,700

Macao:

Sands Macao

1,032,100

1,314,733

1,277,159

The Venetian Macao

1,943,196

650,496

—

Four Seasons Macao

62,536

—

—

Other Asia

17,082

1,213

—

Total net revenues

$

4,389,946

$

2,950,567

$

2,236,859

Adjusted EBITDAR(1)

Las Vegas Operating Properties

$

392,139

$

361,076

$

373,460

Macao:

Sands Macao

214,573

373,507

457,998

The Venetian Macao

499,025

144,417

—

Four Seasons Macao

7,567

—

—

Other Asia

(49,465

)

(4,250

)

—

Total Adjusted EBITDAR

1,063,839

874,750

831,458

Other Operating Costs and Expenses

Stock-based compensation expense

(35,039

)

(15,752

)

(7,133

)

Corporate expense

(104,355

)

(94,514

)

(59,570

)

Rental expense

(33,540

)

(31,787

)

(13,478

)

Pre-opening expense

(162,322

)

(189,280

)

(37,673

)

Development expense

(12,789

)

(9,728

)

(26,112

)

Depreciation and amortization

(506,986

)

(202,557

)

(110,771

)

Impairment loss

(37,568

)

—

—

Loss on disposal of assets

(7,577

)

(1,122

)

(2,624

)

Operating income

163,663

330,010

574,097

Other Non-Operating Costs and Expenses

Interest income

19,786

72,464

66,191

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized

(421,825

)

(244,808

)

(135,853

)

Other income (expense)

19,492

(8,682

)

(189

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

(9,141

)

(10,705

)

—

Benefit (provision) for income taxes

59,700

(21,591

)

(62,243

)

Noncontrolling interest

4,767

—

—

Net income (loss)

$

(163,558

)

$

116,688

$

442,003

(1)

Adjusted EBITDAR is net income (loss) before interest, income
    taxes, depreciation and amortization, pre-opening expense,
    development expense, other income (expense), loss on early
    retirement of debt, loss on disposal of assets, impairment loss,
    rental expense, corporate expense, stock-based compensation
    expense included in general and administrative expense, and
    noncontrolling interest. Adjusted EBITDAR is used by



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

management as the primary measure of operating performance of
    the Company’s properties and to compare the operating
    performance of the Company’s properties with those of its
    competitors.

Year Ended December 31,




Capital Expenditures

Corporate and Other

$

447,101

$

146,834

$

49,506

Las Vegas Operating Properties

577,862

1,320,062

639,574

Macao:

Sands Macao

41,455

120,919

98,498

The Venetian Macao

173,744

970,990

954,534

Four Seasons Macao

570,481

279,157

69,263

Other Asia

103,464

120,319

17,447

Other Development Projects

1,111,326

470,842

83,312

Singapore

763,575

364,580

13,157

Total capital expenditures

$

3,789,008

$

3,793,703

$

1,925,291

Year Ended December 31,




Total Assets

Corporate and Other

$

1,182,532

$

447,556

$

211,797

Las Vegas Operating Properties

6,562,124

4,139,040

3,165,691

Macao:

Sands Macao

592,998

550,479

537,990

The Venetian Macao

3,060,279

3,059,896

1,564,675

Four Seasons Macao

973,892

391,506

70,246

Other Asia

347,359

219,951

27,676

Other Development Projects

2,015,386

741,801

649,315

Singapore

2,409,543

1,916,288

899,068

Total assets

$

17,144,113

$

11,466,517

$

7,126,458

Note 18 —

Condensed
    Consolidating Financial Information

LVSC is the obligor of the Senior Notes due 2015, issued on
    February 10, 2005. LVSLLC, VCR, Mall Intermediate Holding
    Company, LLC, Venetian Venture Development, Venetian Transport,
    LLC, Venetian Marketing, Inc., Lido Intermediate Holding
    Company, LLC and Lido Casino Resort Holding Company, LLC
    (collectively, the “Original Guarantors”), have
    jointly and severally guaranteed the Senior Notes on a full and
    unconditional basis. Effective May 23, 2007, in conjunction
    with entering into the Senior Secured Credit Facility, LVSC, the
    Original Guarantors and the trustee entered into a supplemental
    indenture related to the Senior Notes, whereby the following
    subsidiaries were added as full and unconditional guarantors on
    a joint and several basis: Interface Group-Nevada Inc., Palazzo
    Condo Tower, LLC, Sands Pennsylvania, Inc., Phase II Mall
    Holding, LLC and Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC
    (collectively with the Original Guarantors, the “Guarantor
    Subsidiaries”). On February 29, 2008, all of the
    capital stock of Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC was sold to
    GGP and in connection therewith, it was released as a guarantor
    under the Senior Notes. As described in
    “— Note 12 — Mall Sale —
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo,” the sale is not complete from
    an accounting perspective due to the Company’s continuing
    involvement in the transaction related to the completion of
    construction on the remainder of The Shoppes at The



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Palazzo, certain activities to be performed on behalf of GGP and
    the uncertainty of the final sales price. Certain of the assets,
    liabilities, operating results and cash flows related to the
    ownership and operation of the mall by Phase II Subsidiary,
    LLC subsequent to the sale will continue to be accounted for by
    the Guarantor Subsidiaries until the final sales price has been
    determined, and therefore are included in the “Guarantor
    Subsidiaries” columns in the following condensed
    consolidating financial information. As a result, net assets of
    $116.4 million (consisting of $360.6 million of fixed
    assets, offset by $244.2 million of liabilities consisting
    primarily of deferred proceeds from the sale) as of
    December 31, 2008, and a net loss of $7.8 million
    (consisting primarily of depreciation expense) for the year
    ended December 31, 2008, related to the mall and are being
    accounted for by the Guarantor Subsidiaries; however, these
    balances and amounts are not collateral for the Senior Notes and
    should not be considered as credit support for the guarantees of
    the Senior Notes.

As a result of the supplemental indenture related to the Senior
    Notes and the sale of the Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC,
    there has been a change in the group of subsidiaries that are
    the Guarantor Subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Company has
    reclassified prior periods to conform to the current
    presentation of the Guarantor Subsidiaries.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The condensed consolidating financial information of the
    Company, the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the non-guarantor
    subsidiaries on a combined basis as of December 31, 2008
    and 2007, and for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2008, is as follows (in thousands):

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS

December 31,

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Cash and cash equivalents

$

294,563

$

2,286,825

$

456,775

$

—

$

3,038,163

Restricted cash

—

6,225

188,591

—

194,816

Intercompany receivables

19,586

16,683

4,843

(41,112

)

—

Accounts receivable, net

1,168

146,085

242,270

(4,704

)

384,819

Inventories


14,776

13,416

—

28,837

Deferred income taxes

1,378

21,446


—

22,971

Prepaid expenses and other

45,768

4,577

21,717

(392

)

71,670

Total current assets

363,108

2,496,617

927,759

(46,208

)

3,741,276

Property and equipment, net

148,543

4,128,835

7,590,850

—

11,868,228

Investment in subsidiaries

4,105,980

1,642,651

—

(5,748,631

)

—

Deferred financing costs, net

1,353

47,441

109,982

—

158,776

Intercompany receivables

398,398

1,296,988

—

(1,695,386

)

—

Intercompany notes receivable

94,310

86,249

—

(180,559

)

—

Deferred income taxes

25,251

18,722


—

44,189

Leasehold interests in land, net

—

—

1,099,938

—

1,099,938

Other assets, net

3,677

25,701

202,328

—

231,706

Total assets

$

5,140,620

$

9,743,204

$

9,931,073

$

(7,670,784

)

$

17,144,113

Accounts payable

$

5,004

$

34,069

$

36,666

$

(4,704

)

$

71,035

Construction payables

—

90,490

646,223

—

736,713

Intercompany payables

16,683

4,843

19,586

(41,112

)

—

Accrued interest payable

6,191


7,801

—

14,750

Other accrued liabilities

4,943

175,617

412,735

—

593,295

Income taxes payable

—

—


(392

)

—

Current maturities of long-term debt

3,688

65,049

45,886

—

114,623

Total current liabilities

36,509

370,826

1,169,289

(46,208

)

1,530,416

Other long-term liabilities

32,996

9,203

22,551

—

64,750

Intercompany payables

—

—

1,695,386

(1,695,386

)

—

Intercompany notes payable

—

—

180,559

(180,559

)

—

Deferred amounts related to mall transactions

—

452,435

—

—

452,435

Long-term debt

330,718

4,804,760

5,220,637

—

10,356,115

Total liabilities

400,223

5,637,224

8,288,422

(1,922,153

)

12,403,716

Preferred Stock issued to Principal Stockholder’s family

318,289

—

—

—

318,289

Stockholders’ equity

4,422,108

4,105,980

1,642,651

(5,748,631

)

4,422,108

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

5,140,620

$

9,743,204

$

9,931,073

$

(7,670,784

)

$

17,144,113



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS

December 31,

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Cash and cash equivalents

$

73,489

$

129,684

$

653,977

$

—

$

857,150

Restricted cash

—

5,088

227,856

—

232,944

Intercompany receivables

195,675

520,761

—

(716,436

)

—

Accounts receivable, net

1,995

113,638

71,562

—

187,195

Inventories


10,086

9,684

—

19,902

Deferred income taxes

1,368

11,879

19,224

—

32,471

Prepaid expenses and other

19,960

15,792

14,004

(332

)

49,424

Total current assets

292,619

806,928

996,307

(716,768

)

1,379,086

Property and equipment, net

160,524

3,360,340

5,053,750

—

8,574,614

Investment in subsidiaries

2,105,436

1,516,585

—

(3,622,021

)

—

Deferred financing costs, net

1,556

58,584

47,198

—

107,338

Restricted cash

—

—

178,824

—

178,824

Intercompany notes receivable

73,562

55,992

—

(129,554

)

—

Deferred income taxes

—

—

1,581

(1,581

)

—

Leasehold interest in land, net

—

—

1,069,609

—

1,069,609

Other assets, net


26,885

130,045

—

157,046

Total assets

$

2,633,813

$

5,825,314

$

7,477,314

$

(4,469,924

)

$

11,466,517

Accounts payable

$

4,881

$

49,020

$

45,122

$

—

$

99,023

Construction payables

—

151,238

566,303

—

717,541

Intercompany payables

—

108,707

607,729

(716,436

)

—

Accrued interest payable

6,350

3,289

1,826

—

11,465

Other accrued liabilities

8,141

186,985

415,785

—

610,911

Income taxes payable

—

—


(332

)

—

Current maturities of long-term debt

3,688

36,141

14,504

—

54,333

Total current liabilities

23,060

535,380

1,651,601

(716,768

)

1,493,273

Other long-term liabilities

15,532

7,114

6,028

—

28,674

Deferred income taxes


2,364

—

(1,581

)

1,553

Deferred amounts related to mall transactions

—

164,746

—

—

164,746

Intercompany notes payable

—

—

129,554

(129,554

)

—

Long-term debt

334,177

3,010,274

4,173,546

—

7,517,997

Total liabilities

373,539

3,719,878

5,960,729

(847,903

)

9,206,243

Stockholders’ equity

2,260,274

2,105,436

1,516,585

(3,622,021

)

2,260,274

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

2,633,813

$

5,825,314

$

7,477,314

$

(4,469,924

)

$

11,466,517



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the year ended December 31, 2008

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Revenues:

Casino

$

—

$

522,438

$

2,669,661

$

—

$

3,192,099

Rooms

—

535,797

231,332

—

767,129

Food and beverage

—

195,233

173,829

—

369,062

Convention, retail and other

—

178,866

239,927

(11,957

)

406,836

Total revenues

—

1,432,334

3,314,749

(11,957

)

4,735,126

Less — promotional allowances

(1,929

)

(147,817

)

(192,705

)

(2,729

)

(345,180

)

Net revenues

(1,929

)

1,284,517

3,122,044

(14,686

)

4,389,946

Operating expenses:

Casino

—

316,846

1,899,728

(2,339

)

2,214,235

Rooms

—

123,112

31,503

—

154,615

Food and beverage

—

88,948

103,852

(6,249

)

186,551

Convention, retail and other

—

87,540

131,227

(5,416

)

213,351

Provision for doubtful accounts

—

28,003

13,862

—

41,865

General and administrative

—

266,087

285,124

(682

)

550,529

Corporate expense

86,369


17,152

—

104,355

Rental expense

—

6,929

26,611

—

33,540

Pre-opening expense

3,722

9,067

149,533

—

162,322

Development expense

2,693

—

10,096

—

12,789

Depreciation and amortization

9,853

223,724

273,409

—

506,986

Impairment loss

13,292

—

24,276

—

37,568

Loss on disposal of assets

—

6,093

1,484

—

7,577

115,929

1,157,183

2,967,857

(14,686

)

4,226,283

Operating income (loss)

(117,858

)

127,334

154,187

—

163,663

Other income (expense):

Interest income

8,694

12,047

7,244

(8,199

)

19,786

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized

(24,036

)

(213,464

)

(192,524

)

8,199

(421,825

)

Other income (expense)

(35

)

(11,795

)

31,322

—

19,492

Loss on early retirement of debt

(5,114

)

—

(4,027

)

—

(9,141

)

Income (loss) from equity investment in subsidiaries

(46,114

)

3,010

—

43,104

—

Loss before income taxes and noncontrolling interest

(184,463

)

(82,868

)

(3,798

)

43,104

(228,025

)

Benefit for income taxes

20,905

36,754

2,041

—

59,700

Noncontrolling interest

—

—

4,767

—

4,767

Net income (loss)

$

(163,558

)

$

(46,114

)

$

3,010

$

43,104

$

(163,558

)



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2007

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Revenues:

Casino

$

—

$

404,255

$

1,846,166

$

—

$

2,250,421

Rooms

—

362,404

74,953

—

437,357

Food and beverage

—

144,745

94,043

(536

)

238,252

Convention, retail and other

38,909

126,364

53,791

(40,672

)

178,392

Total revenues

38,909

1,037,768

2,068,953

(41,208

)

3,104,422

Less — promotional allowances

(1,045

)

(75,187

)

(77,623

)

—

(153,855

)

Net revenues

37,864

962,581

1,991,330

(41,208

)

2,950,567

Operating expenses:

Casino

—

195,206

1,240,858

(402

)

1,435,662

Rooms

—

82,275

11,944

—

94,219

Food and beverage

—

71,573

48,463

(1,763

)

118,273

Convention, retail and other

—

64,825

32,864

—

97,689

Provision for doubtful accounts

—

25,126

1,243

—

26,369

General and administrative

—

212,138

146,262

(39,043

)

319,357

Corporate expense

91,548


2,600

—

94,514

Rental expense

—

8,348

23,439

—

31,787

Pre-opening expense

2,282

23,510

163,488

—

189,280

Development expense

6,030

—

3,698

—

9,728

Depreciation and amortization

6,571

89,571

106,415

—

202,557

Loss on disposal of assets




—

1,122

106,936

772,991

1,781,838

(41,208

)

2,620,557

Operating income (loss)

(69,072

)

189,590

209,492

—

330,010

Other income (expense):

Interest income

9,217

41,187

29,150

(7,090

)

72,464

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized

(18,837

)

(114,546

)

(118,515

)

7,090

(244,808

)

Other expense

(6

)

(1,009

)

(7,667

)

—

(8,682

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

—

(10,332

)

(373

)

—

(10,705

)

Income from equity investment in subsidiaries

188,785

110,975

—

(299,760

)

—

Income before income taxes

110,087

215,865

112,087

(299,760

)

138,279

Benefit (provision) for income taxes

6,601

(27,080

)

(1,112

)

—

(21,591

)

Net income

$

116,688

$

188,785

$

110,975

$

(299,760

)

$

116,688



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2006

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Revenues:

Casino

$

—

$

411,771

$

1,264,290

$

—

$

1,676,061

Rooms

—

343,995

6,611

—

350,606

Food and beverage

—

137,006

51,129

(316

)

187,819

Convention, retail and other

33,408

123,257

3,549

(34,522

)

125,692

Total revenues

33,408

1,016,029

1,325,579

(34,838

)

2,340,178

Less — promotional allowances

(625

)

(66,140

)

(36,554

)

—

(103,319

)

Net revenues

32,783

949,889

1,289,025

(34,838

)

2,236,859

Operating expenses:

Casino

—

187,431

737,839

(237

)

925,033

Rooms

—

85,420


—

85,651

Food and beverage

—

66,121

24,106

(1,114

)

89,113

Convention, retail and other

—

62,300

2,015

—

64,315

Provision for doubtful accounts

—

17,645


—

18,067

General and administrative

—

195,508

68,334

(33,487

)

230,355

Corporate expense

59,220

—


—

59,570

Rental expense

—

12,669


—

13,478

Pre-opening expense

—

1,369

36,304

—

37,673

Development expense

3,280

(35

)

22,867

—

26,112

Depreciation and amortization

2,906

67,469

40,396

—

110,771

Loss on disposal of assets

—


1,940

—

2,624

65,406

696,581

935,613

(34,838

)

1,662,762

Operating income (loss)

(32,623

)

253,308

353,412

—

574,097

Other income (expense):

Interest income

12,457

32,847

28,910

(8,023

)

66,191

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized

(16,921

)

(82,485

)

(44,470

)

8,023

(135,853

)

Other income (expense)

2,422

(552

)

(2,059

)

—

(189

)

Income from equity investment in subsidiaries

470,823

337,747

—

(808,570

)

—

Income before income taxes

436,158

540,865

335,793

(808,570

)

504,246

Benefit (provision) for income taxes

5,845

(70,042

)

1,954

—

(62,243

)

Net income

$

442,003

$

470,823

$

337,747

$

(808,570

)

$

442,003



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2008

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

$

(34,547

)

$

116,829

$

45,504

$

—

$

127,786

Cash flows from investing activities:

Change in restricted cash

—

(1,137

)

219,181

—

218,044

Capital expenditures

(11,163

)

(660,163

)

(3,117,682

)

—

(3,789,008

)

Notes receivable to non-guarantor subsidiaries

(20,000

)

(36,185

)

—

56,185

—

Intercompany receivable to Guarantor Subsidiaries

(35,000

)

—

—

35,000

—

Intercompany receivable to non-guarantor subsidiaries

(353,000

)

(1,201,285

)

—

1,554,285

—

Repayment of receivable from Guarantor Subsidiaries

94,003

—

—

(94,003

)

—

Repayment of receivable from non-guarantor subsidiaries

—

34,018

—

(34,018

)

—

Dividends from Guarantor Subsidiaries

50,596

—

—

(50,596

)

—

Capital contributions to subsidiaries

(2,025,000

)

(77,728

)

—

2,102,728

—

Net cash used in investing activities

(2,299,564

)

(1,942,480

)

(2,898,501

)

3,569,581

(3,570,964

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

6,834

—

—

—

6,834

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation

1,112

—

—

—

1,112

Dividends paid to Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

(50,596

)

—

50,596

—

Capital contributions received

—

2,025,000

77,728

(2,102,728

)

—

Borrowings from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

35,000

373,000

(408,000

)

—

Borrowings from Guarantor Subsidiaries

—

—

1,237,470

(1,237,470

)

—

Repayment on borrowings from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

(94,003

)

—

94,003

—

Repayment on borrowings from Guarantor Subsidiaries

—

—

(34,018

)

34,018

—

Proceeds from common stock issued, net of transaction costs

1,053,695

—

—

—

1,053,695

Proceeds from preferred stock and warrants issued to Principal
    Stockholder’s family, net of transaction costs

523,720

—

—

—

523,720

Proceeds from preferred stock and warrants issued, net of
    transaction costs

503,625

—

—

—

503,625

Proceeds from issuance of convertible senior notes

475,000

—

—

—

475,000

Proceeds from Macao credit facility

—

—

444,299

—

444,299

Proceeds from Singapore permanent facility

—

—

1,730,515

—

1,730,515

Proceeds from ferry financing

—

—

218,564

—

218,564

Proceeds from senior secured credit facility-revolving

—

1,075,860

—

—

1,075,860

Proceeds from senior secured credit facility-delayed draws

—

1,000,000

—

—

1,000,000

Proceeds from FF&E financings and other long-term debt

—

105,584

41,379

—

146,963

Repayments on senior secured credit facility-revolving

—

(300,000

)

—

—

(300,000

)

Repayments on Singapore bridge facility

—

—

(1,326,467

)

—

(1,326,467

)

Repayments on senior secured credit facility-term B and delayed
    draw I

—

(33,000

)

—

—

(33,000

)

Repayments on airplane financings

(3,687

)

—

—

—

(3,687

)

Repayments on FF&E financings and other long-term debt

—

(25,050

)

(37,704

)

—

(62,754

)

Proceeds from sale of The Shoppes at the Palazzo

—

243,928

—

—

243,928

Payments of deferred financing costs

(5,114

)


(87,923

)

—

(92,968

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

2,555,185

3,982,792

2,636,843

(3,569,581

)

5,605,239

Effect of exchange rate on cash

—

—

18,952

—

18,952

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

221,074

2,157,141

(197,202

)

—

2,181,013

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

73,489

129,684

653,977

—

857,150

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

294,563

$

2,286,825

$

456,775

$

—

$

3,038,163



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2007

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

$

(135,852

)

$

179,629

$

321,680

$

—

$

365,457

Cash flows from investing activities:

Change in restricted cash

50,076

410,520

95,680

—

556,276

Capital expenditures

(88,016

)

(1,081,975

)

(2,623,712

)

—

(3,793,703

)

Acquisition of gaming license included in other assets

—

—

(50,000

)

—

(50,000

)

Repayment of receivable from Guarantor Subsidiaries

73,715

—

—

(73,715

)

—

Repayment of receivable from non-guarantor subsidiaries

125,464

58,521

—

(183,985

)

—

Intercompany receivable to Guarantor Subsidiaries

(114,902

)

—

—

114,902

—

Intercompany receivable to non-guarantor subsidiaries

(32,338

)

(449,886

)

—

482,224

—

Capital contributions to subsidiaries

—

(548,088

)

—

548,088

—

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

13,999

(1,610,908

)

(2,578,032

)

887,514

(3,287,427

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

30,221

—

—

—

30,221

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation

7,112

—

—

—

7,112

Capital contributions received

—

—

548,088

(548,088

)

—

Borrowings from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

114,902

32,338

(147,240

)

—

Borrowings from Guarantor Subsidiaries

—

—

449,886

(449,886

)

—

Repayment on borrowings from Guarantor Subsidiaries

—

—

(58,521

)

58,521

—

Repayment on borrowings from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

(73,715

)

(125,464

)

199,179

—

Proceeds from Macao credit facility

—

—

1,551,000

—

1,551,000

Proceeds from Singapore bridge facility

—

—

339,788

—

339,788

Proceeds from airplane financing

92,250

—

—

—

92,250

Proceeds from senior secured credit facility-term B

—

3,000,000

—

—

3,000,000

Proceeds from prior senior secured credit facility-revolving

—

62,000

—

—

62,000

Proceeds from construction loan for The Shoppes at The Palazzo

—

—

52,000

—

52,000

Proceeds from FF&E financings and other long-term debt

—

23,834

14,204

—

38,038

Repayments on senior secured credit facility-term B

—

(15,000

)

—

—

(15,000

)

Repayment on prior senior secured credit facility-term B and
    term B delayed

—

(1,170,000

)

—

—

(1,170,000

)

Repayment on prior senior secured credit facility-revolving

—

(322,128

)

—

—

(322,128

)

Repayments on airplane financing

(2,766

)

—

—

—

(2,766

)

Repayments on FF&E financings and other long-term debt

—

(7,334

)

(1,205

)

—

(8,539

)

Repayments on construction loan for The Shoppes at The Palazzo

—

—

(166,500

)

—

(166,500

)

Repayments on Sands Expo Center mortgage loan

—

(90,868

)

—

—

(90,868

)

Payments of deferred financing costs

(575

)

(54,874

)

(18,294

)

—

(73,743

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

126,242

1,466,817

2,617,320

(887,514

)

3,322,865

Effect of exchange rate on cash

—

—

(11,811

)

—

(11,811

)

Increase in cash and cash equivalents

4,389

35,538

349,157

—

389,084

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

69,100

94,146

304,820

—

468,066

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

73,489

$

129,684

$

653,977

$

—

$

857,150



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2006

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

$

(28,167

)

$

197,560

$

(366,113

)

$

—

$

(196,720

)

Cash flows from investing activities:

Change in restricted cash

(24

)

176,803

(487,344

)

—

(310,565

)

Capital expenditures

(49,519

)

(547,750

)

(1,328,022

)

—

(1,925,291

)

Notes receivable to non-guarantor subsidiaries

(115,000

)

(75,000

)

—

190,000

—

Repayment of notes receivable from non-guarantor subsidiaries

165,000

25,000

—

(190,000

)

—

Intercompany receivable to Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

(20,000

)

—

20,000

—

Repayment of receivable from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

20,000

—

(20,000

)

—

Intercompany receivable to non-guarantor subsidiaries

(104,464

)

(31,408

)

—

135,872

—

Capital contributions to subsidiaries

(9,549

)

(6,994

)

—

16,543

—

Net cash used in investing activities

(113,556

)

(459,349

)

(1,815,366

)

152,415

(2,235,856

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

7,226

—

—

—

7,226

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation

1,401

—

—

—

1,401

Capital contributions received

—

9,549

6,994

(16,543

)

—

Borrowings from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

—

219,464

(219,464

)

—

Borrowings from Guarantor Subsidiaries

20,000

—

106,408

(126,408

)

—

Repayment on borrowings from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

—

(165,000

)

165,000

—

Repayment on borrowings from Guarantor Subsidiaries

(20,000

)

—

(25,000

)

45,000

—

Proceeds from Macao credit facility

—

—

1,350,000

—

1,350,000

Proceeds from Singapore bridge facility

—

—

892,076

—

892,076

Proceeds from prior senior secured credit facility-revolving

—

254,129

—

—

254,129

Proceeds from construction loan for The Shoppes at The Palazzo

—

—

86,000

—

86,000

Proceeds from FF&E financings and other long-term debt

—

37,715


—

37,790

Repayments on Venetian Intermediate credit facility

—

—

(50,000

)

—

(50,000

)

Repayments on Macao credit facility

—

—

(50,000

)

—

(50,000

)

Repayment on prior senior secured credit facility-revolving

—

(25,000

)

—

—

(25,000

)

Repayments on FF&E financings and other long-term debt

—

(2,999

)

(14

)

—

(3,013

)

Repayments on Sands Expo Center mortgage loan

—

(4,733

)

—

—

(4,733

)

Payments of deferred financing costs

—

(2,283

)

(50,611

)

—

(52,894

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

8,627

266,378

2,320,392

(152,415

)

2,442,982

Effect of exchange rate on cash

—

—


—


Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

(133,096

)

4,589

139,727

—

11,220

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

202,196

89,557

165,093

—

456,846

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

69,100

$

94,146

$

304,820

$

—

$

468,066



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 19 —

Selected
    Quarterly Financial Results (Unaudited)

Quarter

First

Second

Third

(1)

Fourth

(2)

Total

(In thousands, except per share data)


Net revenues

$

1,079,023

$

1,112,114

$

1,105,434

$

1,093,375

$

4,389,946

Operating income (loss)

96,565

73,282

28,195

(34,379

)

163,663

Net loss

(11,234

)

(8,796

)

(32,208

)

(111,320

)

(163,558

)

Basic loss per share

(0.03

)

(0.02

)

(0.09

)

(0.27

)

(0.48

)

Diluted loss per share

(0.03

)

(0.02

)

(0.09

)

(0.27

)

(0.48

)


Net revenues

$

628,218

$

612,926

$

660,950

$

1,048,473

$

2,950,567

Operating income (loss)

131,006

86,233

(20,794

)

133,565

330,010

Net income (loss)

90,914

34,398

(48,507

)

39,883

116,688

Basic earnings (loss) per share

0.26

0.10

(0.14

)

0.11

0.33

Diluted earnings (loss) per share

0.26

0.10

(0.14

)

0.11

0.33

(1)

The Four Seasons Macao and The Venetian Macao opened on
    August 28, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

(2)

The Palazzo partially opened on December 30, 2007.

Because earnings per share amounts are calculated using the
    weighted average number of common and dilutive common equivalent
    shares outstanding during each quarter, the sum of the per share
    amounts for the four quarters may not equal the total earnings
    per share amounts for the respective year.



SCHEDULE II —
    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

For the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and

Provision

Balance at

for

Write-offs,

Balance

Beginning

Doubtful

net of

at End

Description

of Year

Accounts

Recoveries

of Year

(In thousands)

Allowance for doubtful accounts:


$

29,480

18,067

(12,071

)

$

35,476


$

35,476

26,369

(28,729

)

$

33,116


$

33,116

41,865

(13,764

)

$

61,217

Balance at

Balance

Beginning

at End

Description

of Year

Additions

Deductions

of Year

Deferred income tax asset valuation allowance:


$

17,386

6,196

—

$

23,582


$

23,582

22,761

—

$

46,343


$

46,343

46,476

—

$

92,819



ITEM 9. —

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A. —

CONTROLS
    AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that
    information required to be disclosed in the reports that the
    Company files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the
    time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and
    that such information is accumulated and communicated to our
    management, including our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow for timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company’s
    Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer have
    evaluated the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Rules 13a-15(e)

and

15d-15(e))

of the Company as of December 31, 2008 and have concluded
    that they are effective to provide reasonable assurance that the
    desired control objectives were achieved.

It should be noted that any system of controls, however well
    designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not
    absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.
    In addition, the design of any control system is based in part
    upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.
    Because of these and other inherent limitations of control
    systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed
    in achieving its stated goals under all potential future
    conditions, regardless of how remote.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in the Company’s internal control
    over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter
    covered by this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting.

Management’s
    Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting

The Company’s management is responsible for establishing
    and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
    reporting, as defined in

Rules 13a-15(f)

and

15d-15(f)

of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s internal
    control over financial reporting is designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles. The Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:

(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
    reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
    transactions and dispositions of the Company’s assets;

(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
    recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles and that the Company’s receipts and expenditures
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of its
    management and directors; and

(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
    timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
    of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect
    on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the
    Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, the
    Company’s management used the framework set



forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission in “Internal Control —
    Integrated Framework.”

Based on this assessment, management concluded that, as of
    December 31, 2008, the Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting is effective based on this framework.

The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, has been
    audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears
    herein.

ITEM 9B. —

OTHER
    INFORMATION

None.

PART III

ITEM 10. —

DIRECTORS,
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2009
    Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission on or about April 30,
    2009 (the “Proxy Statement”), including under the
    captions “Board of Directors,” “Executive
    Officers,” “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance” and “Information Regarding the
    Board of Directors and Its Committees.”

We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which is
    posted on our website at

www.lasvegassands.com

, along
    with any amendments or waivers to the Code. Copies of the Code
    of Business Conduct and Ethics are available without charge by
    sending a written request to Investor Relations at the following
    address: Las Vegas Sands Corp., 3355 Las Vegas Boulevard South,
    Las Vegas, Nevada 89109.

ITEM 11. —

EXECUTIVE
    COMPENSATION

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement, including under the
    captions “Executive Compensation and Other
    Information,” “Director Compensation,”
    “Information Regarding the Board of Directors and Its
    Committees” and “Compensation Committee Report”
    (which report is deemed to be furnished and is not deemed to be
    filed in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).

ITEM 12. —

SECURITY
    OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
    RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement, including under the
    captions “Equity Compensation Plan Information” and
    “Principal Stockholders.”

ITEM 13. —

CERTAIN
    RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement, including under the
    captions “Board of Directors,” “Information
    Regarding the Board of Directors and its Committees” and
    “Certain Transactions.”

ITEM 14. —

PRINCIPAL
    ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement, under the caption
    “Fees paid to Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm.”



PART IV

ITEM 15. —

EXHIBITS AND
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)

Documents filed as part of the Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

(1) List of Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Balance Sheets

Consolidated Statements of Operations

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and
    Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(2) List of Financial Statement Schedule

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(3) List of Exhibits

Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.1

Certificate of Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
    Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Amended and Restated By-laws of Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).


.3

Certificate of Designations for Series A 10% Cumulative
    Perpetual Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on November 14, 2008).


.4

Operating Agreement of Las Vegas Sands, LLC dated July 28,
    2005 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form S-3

filed on November 17, 2008).


.5

First Amendment to the Operating Agreement of Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC dated May 23, 2007 (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form S-3

filed on November 17, 2008).


.1

Form of Specimen Common Stock Certificate of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Indenture, dated as of February 10, 2005, by and between
    Las Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer, and U.S. Bank National
    Association, as trustee (the “6.375% Notes Indenture)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 15, 2005).


.3

Supplemental Indenture to the 6.375% Notes Indenture, dated
    as of February 22, 2005, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
    (n/k/a Las Vegas Sands, LLC), Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Mall
    Intermediate Holding Company, LLC, Lido Intermediate Holding
    Company, LLC, Lido Casino Resort, LLC, (which was merged into
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC in March 2007), Venetian Venture
    Development, LLC, Venetian Operating Company, LLC (which was
    merged into Venetian Casino Resort, LLC in March 2006), Venetian
    Marketing, Inc. and Venetian Transport, LLC, as guarantors, Las
    Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer and U.S. Bank National Association,
    as trustee) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to
    the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 23, 2005).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.4

Second Supplemental Indenture to the 6.375% Notes
    Indenture, dated as of May 23, 2007, by and among Interface
    Group Nevada, Inc., Lido Casino Resort Holding Company, LLC,
    Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary,
    LLC, Sands Pennsylvania, Inc. and Palazzo Condo Tower, LLC, as
    guaranteeing subsidiaries, the guarantors party to the first
    supplemental indenture, Las Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer, and
    U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.5

Indenture, dated as of September 30, 2008, between Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee
    “Convertible Notes Indenture” (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and filed on
    November 10, 2008).


.6

First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 30,
    2008, between Las Vegas Sands Corp. and U.S. Bank National
    Association, as trustee to the Convertible Notes Indenture
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and filed on
    November 10, 2008).


.7

Form of Indenture to be entered into by the Company and U.S.
    Bank National Association, as trustee (the “Senior Debt
    Security Indenture”) (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-3

ASR (Reg.

No. 33-155100)

filed on November 6, 2008).


.8

Form of Indenture to be entered into among the Company, Las
    Vegas Sands, LLC and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee
    (the “Senior Guaranteed Debt Security Indenture”)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.7 to the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-3

POSASR (Reg.

No. 333-155100)

filed on November 17, 2008).


.9

Form of Indenture to be entered into by the Company and U.S.
    Bank National Association, as trustee (the “Subordinated
    Indenture”) (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 4.5 to the Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-3

ASR (Reg.

No. 333-155100)

filed on November 6, 2008).


.1

Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2008, between
    Las Vegas Sands Corp. and U.S. Bank National Association, as
    warrant agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1
    to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on November 14, 2008).


.2

Credit and Guarantee Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007,
    by and among Las Vegas Sands, LLC, the affiliates of Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC named therein as guarantors, the lenders party hereto
    from time to time, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as administrative
    agent for the Lenders and as collateral agent, Goldman Sachs
    Credit Partners L.P., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Citigroup Global
    Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners and
    as syndication agents, and JP Morgan Chase Bank, as
    documentation agent (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.3

Security Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007, between each
    of the parties named as a grantor therein and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as collateral agent for the secured parties, as defined
    therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.4

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by
    Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, as trustor, as of
    May 23, 2007 in favor of First American
    Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the benefit of The
    Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as collateral agent, as
    beneficiary (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.5

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC, as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor of
    First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.6

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC, as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor
    of First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for
    the benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.7

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC and Las Vegas Sands, LLC, jointly and
    severally as trustors, as of May 23, 2007 in favor of First
    American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.8

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc., as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor
    of First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for
    the benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.10 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.9

Amended and Restated FF&E Credit and Guarantee Agreement,
    dated as of August 21, 2007, by and among Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC, as the borrower, certain affiliates of the borrower as
    guarantors, the lenders party thereto from time to time, General
    Electric Capital Corporation, as administrative agent for the
    lenders and as collateral agent and GE Capital Markets, Inc., as
    lead arranger and book runner (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).


.10

Amended and Restated Security Agreement, dated as of
    August 21, 2007, between each of the grantors party thereto
    and General Electric Capital Corporation, as collateral agent
    for the secured parties (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).


.11

Indemnity Agreement, dated as of August 25, 2000, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Grand
    Canal Shops Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall
    Construction, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall, LLC, Interface Group
    Holding Company, and American Insurance Companies (of which
    American Home Assurance Company is a member company)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.8 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.12

Energy Services Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997,
    by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 2 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated March 27, 1998).


.13

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 1, dated as of
    July 1, 1999, by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.8 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 1999 and filed on
    March 30, 2000).


.14

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 2, dated as of
    July 1, 2006, by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.77 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2006 and filed on
    February 28, 2007).


.15

Energy Services Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997,
    by and between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.8 to Amendment No. 1 of the Company’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.16

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 1, dated as of
    July 1, 1999, by and between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.17

Amended and Restated Services Agreement, dated as of
    November 14, 1997, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.,
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group Holding Company,
    Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Lido Casino Resort MM, Inc.,
    Grand Canal Shops Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and certain
    subsidiaries of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC named therein
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to Amendment
    No. 1 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Registration
    Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated February 12, 1998).


.18

Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    November 8, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.,
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group Holding Company,
    Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Interface Operations LLC,
    Lido Casino Resort MM, Inc., Grand Canal Shops Mall MM
    Subsidiary, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC named therein (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.52 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.19

Construction Agency Agreement, dated as of November 14,
    1997, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Atlantic
    Pacific Las Vegas, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.21 to Amendment No. 2 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated March 27, 1998).


.20

Sands Resort Hotel and Casino Agreement, dated as of
    February 18, 1997, by and between Clark County and Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.27 to Amendment No. 1 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated February 12, 1998).


.21

Addendum to Sands Resort Hotel and Casino Agreement, dated as of
    September 16, 1997, by and between Clark County and Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.20 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.22

Improvement Phasing Agreement by and between Clark County and
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.23

Amended and Restated Las Vegas Sands, Inc. 1997 Fixed Stock
    Option Plan (the “1997 Stock Option Plan”)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.10 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.24

First Amendment to the 1997 Stock Option Plan, dated
    June 4, 2002 (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.11 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.25

Assumption Agreement, dated as of January 2, 2002, by
    Sheldon G. Adelson with respect to the 1997 Stock Option Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2002 and filed on
    May 8, 2002).


.26

Assumption Agreement, dated as of July 15, 2004, by Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. with respect to the 1997 Stock Option Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.25 to the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.27

Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    December 20, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. and Sheldon G. Adelson (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.27 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 4, 2005).


.28

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and William
    P. Weidner (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.27 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.29*

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of
    December 31, 2008, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, LLC (f/k/a Las Vegas Sands, Inc.) and William P.
    Weidner.



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.30

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Bradley
    H. Stone (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.30 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.31*

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of
    December 31, 2008, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, LLC (f/k/a Las Vegas Sands, Inc.) and Bradley H.
    Stone.


.32

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Robert G.
    Goldstein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.33 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.33*

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of
    December 31, 2008, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, LLC (f/k/a Las Vegas Sands, Inc.) and Robert G.
    Goldstein.


.34

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Sheldon
    G. Adelson (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.36 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.35*

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of
    December 31, 2008, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las
    Vegas Sands, LLC (f/k/a Las Vegas Sands, Inc.) and Sheldon G.
    Adelson.


.36*

Employment Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2008 between
    Las Vegas Sands Corp. and Kenneth J. Kay.


.37*

Employment Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2008, between
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. and Leonard DeAngelo.


.38

Concession Contract for Operating Casino Games of Chance or
    Games of Other Forms in the Macao Special Administrative Region,
    June 26, 2002, by and among the Macao Special
    Administrative Region and Galaxy Casino Company Limited
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.40 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2002 and filed on
    March 31, 2003).


.39†

Subconcession Contract for Operating Casino Games of Chance or
    Games of Other Forms in the Macao Special Administrative Region,
    dated December 19, 2002, between Galaxy Casino Company
    Limited, as concessionaire, and Venetian Macau S.A., as
    subconcessionaire (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.65 to the Company’s Amendment No. 5 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 10, 2004).


.40

Land Concession Agreement, dated as of December 10, 2003,
    relating to the Sands Macao between the Macao Special
    Administrative Region and Venetian Macau Limited (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.39 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.41

Amendment, published on April 22, 2008, to Land Concession
    Agreement, dated as of December 10, 2003, relating to the
    Sands Macao between the Macau Special Administrative Region and
    Venetian Macau Limited (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and filed on
    May 9, 2008).


.42

Land Concession Agreement, dated as of February 23, 2007,
    relating to the Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao and Site 3
    among the Macau Special Administrative Region, Venetian Cotai
    Limited and Venetian Macau Limited (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).


.43

Amendment published on October 28, 2008, to Land Concession
    Agreement between Macau Special Administrative Region and
    Venetian Cotai Limited (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and filed on
    November 10, 2008).


.44

Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated April 12, 2004, by and
    among Grand Canal Shops Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops
    Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and GGP Limited Partnership
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.45

Agreement, made as of April 12, 2004, by and between Lido
    Casino Resort, LLC and GGP Limited Partnership (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.2 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2004).


.46

Assignment and Assumption of Agreement and First Amendment to
    Agreement, dated September 30, 2004, made by Lido Casino
    Resort, LLC, as assignor, to Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, as
    assignee, and to GGP Limited Partnership, as buyer (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.60 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.47

Second Amendment, dated as of January 31, 2008, to
    Agreement dated as of April 12, 2004 and amended as of
    September 30, 2004, by and among Venetian Casino Resort,
    LLC, as

successor-by-merger

to Lido Casino Resort, LLC, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, as

successor-in-interest

to Lido Casino Resort, LLC, and GGP Limited Partnership
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and filed on
    May 9, 2008).


.48

Second Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated
    as of November 14, 2008, by and among Las Vegas Sands
    Corp., Dr. Miriam Adelson and the other Adelson Holders (as
    defined therein) that are party to the agreement from time to
    time (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on November 14, 2008).


.49

Investor Rights Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2008,
    by and between Las Vegas Sands Corp. and the Investor named
    therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and filed on
    November 10, 2008).


.50

Form of Notice of Restricted Stock Award under the Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.40 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2005 and filed on
    March 2, 2006).


.51

Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.41 to the Company’s
    Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and filed on
    May 16, 2005).


.52

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Executive Cash Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.42 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and filed on
    May 16, 2005).


.53

Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2004, by and between Sheldon
    G. Adelson and Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.47 to the Company’s Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.54

Venetian Hotel Service Agreement, dated as of June 28,
    2001, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo and Convention Center
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.49 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.55

First Amendment to Venetian Hotel Service Agreement, dated as of
    June 28, 2004, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
    and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo and Convention
    Center (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.50 to the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.56

Tax Indemnification Agreement, dated as of December 17,
    2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
    and the stockholders named therein (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.56 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 4, 2005).


.57

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.63 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.58

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreements under the 2004 Equity
    Award Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.70 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 4 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.59

Form of Stock Option Agreements under the 2004 Equity Award Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.71 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 4 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.60

Amended Aircraft Interchange Agreement, dated as of May 23,
    2007, by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.61

Aircraft Time Share Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007, by
    and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.62

Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of January 1,
    2005, by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 and filed
    November 14, 2005).


.63

Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of June 18, 2004,
    by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.48 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.64

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option under the Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.65 to the Company’s Quarterly Report
    on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2005 and filed on
    March 2, 2006).


.65

Credit Agreement, dated as of May 25, 2006, by and among
    VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Macau Limited, the financial
    institutions listed therein as lenders, The Bank of Nova Scotia,
    Banco Nacional Ultramarino, S.A., Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
    Corporation, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., Lehman Brothers
    Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and filed on
    August 9, 2006).


.66

Disbursement Agreement, dated as of May 25, 2006, by and
    among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Cotai Limited, Venetian Macau
    Limited and The Bank of Nova Scotia (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and filed on
    August 9, 2006).


.67

First Amendment to Credit Agreement and Disbursement Agreement,
    dated as of March 5, 2007, among Venetian Macau Limited,
    VML US Finance LC, Venetian Cotai Limited and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as administrative agent and disbursement agent
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).


.68

First Amendment to Disbursement Agreement, dated as of
    March 5, 2007, among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Cotai
    Limited, Venetian Macau Limited and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as
    disbursement agent and bank agent. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).


.69

Facility Agreement, dated as of December 28, 2007, among
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as borrower, Goldman Sachs Foreign
    Exchange (Singapore) Pte., DBS Bank Ltd., UOB Asia Limited,
    Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited, as coordinators,
    and DBS Bank Ltd., as technical bank, agent and security trustee
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.59 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for year ended December 31, 2007 and filed on
    February 29, 2008).


.70

Sponsor Support Agreement, dated as of December 28, 2007,
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., as sponsor, Sands Mauritius
    Holdings and MBS Holdings Pte. Ltd., as holding company, Marina
    Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as borrower and DBS Bank Ltd., as security
    trustee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.60 to
    the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for year ended December 31, 2007 and filed on
    February 29, 2008).


.71

Development Agreement, dated August 23, 2006, between the
    Singapore Tourism Board and Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed on
    November 9, 2006).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.72

Fourth Amended and Restated Reciprocal Easement, Use and
    Operating Agreement, dated as of February 29, 2008, by and
    among Interface Group — Nevada, Inc., Grand Canal
    Shops II, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC, and Palazzo Condo Tower, LLC (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
    Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and filed on
    May 9, 2008).


.73

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 9, 2007).


.74

First Amendment, dated as of February 5, 2007, to the Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.76 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2006 and filed on
    February 28, 2007).


.75

Convertible Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of
    September 30, 2008, between Las Vegas Sands Corp. and
    Dr. Miriam Adelson (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and filed on
    November 10, 2008).


.76

Note Conversion and Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of
    November 10, 2008, between Las Vegas Sands Corp. and
    Dr. Miriam Adelson (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 1.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on November 14, 2008).


.77

Amendment to Note Conversion and Securities Purchase Agreement,
    dated as of November 10, 2008, between Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. and Dr. Miriam Adelson (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 1.3 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on November 14, 2008).


.1*

Subsidiaries of Las Vegas Sands Corp.


.1*

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.


.1*

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.1*

Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Filed herewith.

†

Confidential treatment has been requested and granted with
    respect to portions of this exhibit, and such confidential
    portions have been deleted and replaced with “**” and
    filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    pursuant to Rule 406 under the Securities Act of 1933.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
    authorized.

LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

February 27, 2009

/s/

Sheldon
    G. Adelson

Sheldon G. Adelson,

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
    registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/

Sheldon
    G. Adelson

Sheldon
    G. Adelson

Chairman of the Board, Chief

Executive Officer and Director

February 27, 2009

/s/

Irwin
    Chafetz

Irwin
    Chafetz

Director

February 27, 2009

/s/

Charles
    D. Forman

Charles
    D. Forman

Director

February 27, 2009

George
    P. Koo

Director

February 27, 2009

/s/

Michael
    A. Leven

Michael
    A. Leven

Director

February 27, 2009

/s/

James
    L. Purcell

James
    L. Purcell

Director

February 27, 2009

/s/

Irwin
    A. Siegel

Irwin
    A. Siegel

Director

February 27, 2009

/s/

William
    P. Weidner

William
    P. Weidner

President, Chief Operating Officer

and Director

February 27, 2009

/s/

Kenneth
    J. Kay

Kenneth
    J. Kay

Senior Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

February 27, 2009



Index to
    Exhibits

Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.1

Certificate of Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
    Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Amended and Restated By-laws of Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).


.3

Certificate of Designations for Series A 10% Cumulative
    Perpetual Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on November 14, 2008).


.4

Operating Agreement of Las Vegas Sands, LLC dated July 28,
    2005 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form S-3

filed on November 17, 2008).


.5

First Amendment to the Operating Agreement of Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC dated May 23, 2007 (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form S-3

filed on November 17, 2008).


.1

Form of Specimen Common Stock Certificate of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Indenture, dated as of February 10, 2005, by and between
    Las Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer, and U.S. Bank National
    Association, as trustee (the “6.375% Notes Indenture)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 15, 2005).


.3

Supplemental Indenture to the 6.375% Notes Indenture, dated
    as of February 22, 2005, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
    (n/k/a Las Vegas Sands, LLC), Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Mall
    Intermediate Holding Company, LLC, Lido Intermediate Holding
    Company, LLC, Lido Casino Resort, LLC, (which was merged into
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC in March 2007), Venetian Venture
    Development, LLC, Venetian Operating Company, LLC (which was
    merged into Venetian Casino Resort, LLC in March 2006), Venetian
    Marketing, Inc. and Venetian Transport, LLC, as guarantors, Las
    Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer and U.S. Bank National Association,
    as trustee) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to
    the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 23, 2005).


.4

Second Supplemental Indenture to the 6.375% Notes
    Indenture, dated as of May 23, 2007, by and among Interface
    Group Nevada, Inc., Lido Casino Resort Holding Company, LLC,
    Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary,
    LLC, Sands Pennsylvania, Inc. and Palazzo Condo Tower, LLC, as
    guaranteeing subsidiaries, the guarantors party to the first
    supplemental indenture, Las Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer, and
    U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.5

Indenture, dated as of September 30, 2008, between Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee
    “Convertible Notes Indenture” (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and filed on
    November 10, 2008).


.6

First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 30,
    2008, between Las Vegas Sands Corp. and U.S. Bank National
    Association, as trustee to the Convertible Notes Indenture
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and filed on
    November 10, 2008).


.7

Form of Indenture to be entered into by the Company and U.S.
    Bank National Association, as trustee (the “Senior Debt
    Security Indenture”) (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-3

ASR (Reg.

No. 33-155100)

filed on November 6, 2008).


.8

Form of Indenture to be entered into among the Company, Las
    Vegas Sands, LLC and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee
    (the “Senior Guaranteed Debt Security Indenture”)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.7 to the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-3

POSASR (Reg.

No. 333-155100)

filed on November 17, 2008).


.9

Form of Indenture to be entered into by the Company and U.S.
    Bank National Association, as trustee (the “Subordinated
    Indenture”) (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 4.5 to the Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-3

ASR (Reg.

No. 333-155100)

filed on November 6, 2008).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.1

Warrant Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2008, between
    Las Vegas Sands Corp. and U.S. Bank National Association, as
    warrant agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1
    to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on November 14, 2008).


.2

Credit and Guarantee Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007,
    by and among Las Vegas Sands, LLC, the affiliates of Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC named therein as guarantors, the lenders party hereto
    from time to time, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as administrative
    agent for the Lenders and as collateral agent, Goldman Sachs
    Credit Partners L.P., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Citigroup Global
    Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners and
    as syndication agents, and JP Morgan Chase Bank, as
    documentation agent (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.3

Security Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007, between each
    of the parties named as a grantor therein and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as collateral agent for the secured parties, as defined
    therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.4

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by
    Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, as trustor, as of
    May 23, 2007 in favor of First American
    Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the benefit of The
    Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as collateral agent, as
    beneficiary (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.5

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC, as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor of
    First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.6

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC, as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor
    of First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for
    the benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.7

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC and Las Vegas Sands, LLC, jointly and
    severally as trustors, as of May 23, 2007 in favor of First
    American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.8

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc., as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor
    of First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for
    the benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.10 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.9

Amended and Restated FF&E Credit and Guarantee Agreement,
    dated as of August 21, 2007, by and among Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC, as the borrower, certain affiliates of the borrower as
    guarantors, the lenders party thereto from time to time, General
    Electric Capital Corporation, as administrative agent for the
    lenders and as collateral agent and GE Capital Markets, Inc., as
    lead arranger and book runner (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).


.10

Amended and Restated Security Agreement, dated as of
    August 21, 2007, between each of the grantors party thereto
    and General Electric Capital Corporation, as collateral agent
    for the secured parties (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.11

Indemnity Agreement, dated as of August 25, 2000, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Grand
    Canal Shops Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall
    Construction, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall, LLC, Interface Group
    Holding Company, and American Insurance Companies (of which
    American Home Assurance Company is a member company)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.8 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.12

Energy Services Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997,
    by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 2 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated March 27, 1998).


.13

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 1, dated as of
    July 1, 1999, by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.8 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 1999 and filed on
    March 30, 2000).


.14

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 2, dated as of
    July 1, 2006, by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.77 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2006 and filed on
    February 28, 2007).


.15

Energy Services Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997,
    by and between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and
    Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.8 to Amendment No. 1 of the Company’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.16

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 1, dated as of
    July 1, 1999, by and between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.17

Amended and Restated Services Agreement, dated as of
    November 14, 1997, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.,
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group Holding Company,
    Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Lido Casino Resort MM, Inc.,
    Grand Canal Shops Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and certain
    subsidiaries of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC named therein
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to Amendment
    No. 1 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Registration
    Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated February 12, 1998).


.18

Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    November 8, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.,
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group Holding Company,
    Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Interface Operations LLC,
    Lido Casino Resort MM, Inc., Grand Canal Shops Mall MM
    Subsidiary, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC named therein (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.52 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.19

Construction Agency Agreement, dated as of November 14,
    1997, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Atlantic
    Pacific Las Vegas, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.21 to Amendment No. 2 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated March 27, 1998).


.20

Sands Resort Hotel and Casino Agreement, dated as of
    February 18, 1997, by and between Clark County and Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.27 to Amendment No. 1 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated February 12, 1998).


.21

Addendum to Sands Resort Hotel and Casino Agreement, dated as of
    September 16, 1997, by and between Clark County and Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.20 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.22

Improvement Phasing Agreement by and between Clark County and
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.23

Amended and Restated Las Vegas Sands, Inc. 1997 Fixed Stock
    Option Plan (the “1997 Stock Option Plan”)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.10 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.24

First Amendment to the 1997 Stock Option Plan, dated
    June 4, 2002 (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.11 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.25

Assumption Agreement, dated as of January 2, 2002, by
    Sheldon G. Adelson with respect to the 1997 Stock Option Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2002 and filed on
    May 8, 2002).


.26

Assumption Agreement, dated as of July 15, 2004, by Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. with respect to the 1997 Stock Option Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.25 to the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.27

Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    December 20, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. and Sheldon G. Adelson (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.27 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 4, 2005).


.28

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and
    William P. Weidner (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.27 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.29*

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of
    December 31, 2008, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp.,
    Las Vegas Sands, LLC (f/k/a Las Vegas Sands, Inc.) and William
    P. Weidner.


.30

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and
    Bradley H. Stone (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.30 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.31*

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of
    December 31, 2008, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp.,
    Las Vegas Sands, LLC (f/k/a Las Vegas Sands, Inc.) and Bradley
    H. Stone.


.32

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and
    Robert G. Goldstein (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.33 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.33*

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of
    December 31, 2008, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp.,
    Las Vegas Sands, LLC (f/k/a Las Vegas Sands, Inc.) and Robert G.
    Goldstein.


.34

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Sheldon
    G. Adelson (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.36 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.35*

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of
    December 31, 2008, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp.,
    Las Vegas Sands, LLC (f/k/a Las Vegas Sands, Inc.) and Sheldon
    G. Adelson.


.36*

Employment Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2008 between
    Las Vegas Sands Corp. and Kenneth J. Kay.


.37*

Employment Agreement, dated as of December 6, 2008, between
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. and Leonard DeAngelo.


.38

Concession Contract for Operating Casino Games of Chance or
    Games of Other Forms in the Macao Special Administrative Region,
    June 26, 2002, by and among the Macao Special
    Administrative Region and Galaxy Casino Company Limited
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.40 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2002 and filed on
    March 31, 2003).


.39†

Subconcession Contract for Operating Casino Games of Chance or
    Games of Other Forms in the Macao Special Administrative Region,
    dated December 19, 2002, between Galaxy Casino Company
    Limited, as concessionaire, and Venetian Macau S.A., as
    subconcessionaire (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.65 to the Company’s Amendment No. 5 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg. No. 333-118827)

dated December 10, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.40

Land Concession Agreement, dated as of December 10, 2003,
    relating to the Sands Macao between the Macao Special
    Administrative Region and Venetian Macau Limited (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.39 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg. No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.41

Amendment, published on April 22, 2008, to Land Concession
    Agreement, dated as of December 10, 2003, relating to the
    Sands Macao between the Macau Special Administrative Region and
    Venetian Macau Limited (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and filed on
    May 9, 2008).


.42

Land Concession Agreement, dated as of February 23, 2007,
    relating to the Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao and Site
    3 among the Macau Special Administrative Region, Venetian Cotai
    Limited and Venetian Macau Limited (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).


.43

Amendment published on October 28, 2008, to Land Concession
    Agreement between Macau Special Administrative Region and
    Venetian Cotai Limited (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and filed on
    November 10, 2008).


.44

Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated April 12, 2004, by and
    among Grand Canal Shops Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops
    Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and GGP Limited Partnership
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2004).


.45

Agreement, made as of April 12, 2004, by and between Lido
    Casino Resort, LLC and GGP Limited Partnership (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.2 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2004).


.46

Assignment and Assumption of Agreement and First Amendment to
    Agreement, dated September 30, 2004, made by Lido Casino
    Resort, LLC, as assignor, to Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, as
    assignee, and to GGP Limited Partnership, as buyer (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.60 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.47

Second Amendment, dated as of January 31, 2008, to
    Agreement dated as of April 12, 2004 and amended as of
    September 30, 2004, by and among Venetian Casino Resort,
    LLC, as

successor-by-merger

to Lido Casino Resort, LLC, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, as

successor-in-interest

to Lido Casino Resort, LLC, and GGP Limited Partnership
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and filed on
    May 9, 2008).


.48

Second Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated
    as of November 14, 2008, by and among Las Vegas Sands
    Corp., Dr. Miriam Adelson and the other Adelson Holders (as
    defined therein) that are party to the agreement from time to
    time (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on November 14, 2008).


.49

Investor Rights Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2008,
    by and between Las Vegas Sands Corp. and the Investor named
    therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and filed on
    November 10, 2008).


.50

Form of Notice of Restricted Stock Award under the Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.40 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2005 and filed on
    March 2, 2006).


.51

Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.41 to the Company’s
    Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and filed on
    May 16, 2005).


.52

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Executive Cash Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.42 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and filed on
    May 16, 2005).


.53

Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2004, by and between Sheldon
    G. Adelson and Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.47 to the Company’s Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.54

Venetian Hotel Service Agreement, dated as of June 28,
    2001, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo and Convention Center
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.49 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.55

First Amendment to Venetian Hotel Service Agreement, dated as of
    June 28, 2004, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
    and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo and Convention
    Center (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.50 to the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.56

Tax Indemnification Agreement, dated as of December 17,
    2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
    and the stockholders named therein (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.56 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 4, 2005).


.57

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.63 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.58

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreements under the 2004 Equity
    Award Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.70 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 4 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.59

Form of Stock Option Agreements under the 2004 Equity Award Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.71 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 4 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.60

Amended Aircraft Interchange Agreement, dated as of May 23,
    2007, by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.61

Aircraft Time Share Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007, by
    and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.62

Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of January 1,
    2005, by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 and filed
    November 14, 2005).


.63

Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of June 18, 2004,
    by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.48 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.64

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option under the Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.65 to the Company’s Quarterly Report
    on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2005 and filed on
    March 2, 2006).


.65

Credit Agreement, dated as of May 25, 2006, by and among
    VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Macau Limited, the financial
    institutions listed therein as lenders, The Bank of Nova Scotia,
    Banco Nacional Ultramarino, S.A., Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
    Corporation, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., Lehman Brothers
    Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and filed on
    August 9, 2006).


.66

Disbursement Agreement, dated as of May 25, 2006, by and
    among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Cotai Limited, Venetian Macau
    Limited and The Bank of Nova Scotia (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and filed on
    August 9, 2006).


.67

First Amendment to Credit Agreement and Disbursement Agreement,
    dated as of March 5, 2007, among Venetian Macau Limited,
    VML US Finance LC, Venetian Cotai Limited and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as administrative agent and disbursement agent
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.68

First Amendment to Disbursement Agreement, dated as of
    March 5, 2007, among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Cotai
    Limited, Venetian Macau Limited and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as
    disbursement agent and bank agent. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).


.69

Facility Agreement, dated as of December 28, 2007, among
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as borrower, Goldman Sachs Foreign
    Exchange (Singapore) Pte., DBS Bank Ltd., UOB Asia Limited,
    Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited, as coordinators,
    and DBS Bank Ltd., as technical bank, agent and security trustee
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.59 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for year ended December 31, 2007 and filed on
    February 29, 2008).


.70

Sponsor Support Agreement, dated as of December 28, 2007,
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., as sponsor, Sands Mauritius
    Holdings and MBS Holdings Pte. Ltd., as holding company, Marina
    Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as borrower and DBS Bank Ltd., as security
    trustee (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.60 to
    the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for year ended December 31, 2007 and filed on
    February 29, 2008).


.71

Development Agreement, dated August 23, 2006, between the
    Singapore Tourism Board and Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed on
    November 9, 2006).


.72

Fourth Amended and Restated Reciprocal Easement, Use and
    Operating Agreement, dated as of February 29, 2008, by and
    among Interface Group — Nevada, Inc., Grand Canal
    Shops II, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC, and Palazzo Condo Tower, LLC (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
    Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and filed on
    May 9, 2008).


.73

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 9, 2007).


.74

First Amendment, dated as of February 5, 2007, to the Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.76 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2006 and filed on
    February 28, 2007).


.75

Convertible Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 30,
    2008, between Las Vegas Sands Corp. and Dr. Miriam Adelson
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    quarter ended September 30, 2008 and filed on November 10,
    2008).


.76

Note Conversion and Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of
    November 10, 2008, between Las Vegas Sands Corp. and
    Dr. Miriam Adelson (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 1.2 to the Company’s Current Report on
    Form 8-K filed on November 14, 2008).


.77

Amendment to Note Conversion and Securities Purchase Agreement,
    dated as of November 10, 2008, between Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. and Dr. Miriam Adelson (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 1.3 to the Company’s Current Report on
    Form 8-K filed on November 14, 2008).


.1*

Subsidiaries of Las Vegas Sands Corp.


.1*

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.


.1*

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.1*

Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Filed herewith.

†

Confidential treatment has been requested and granted with
    respect to portions of this exhibit, and such confidential
    portions have been deleted and replaced with “**” and
    filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    pursuant to Rule 406 under the Securities Act of 1933.

149