10-K


p75030e10vk.htm

10-K

e10vk


UNITED
    STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

Form 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007

or

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
    from     to

Commission file number

001-32373

LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Nevada

27-0099920

(State or other jurisdiction
    of

incorporation or organization)

(IRS Employer

Identification No.)

3355 Las Vegas Boulevard South

Las Vegas, Nevada

(Address of principal
    executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone
    number, including Area code:

(702) 414-1000

Securities registered pursuant
    to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock ($0.001 par value)

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports); and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

(§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
    and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer
    or a small reporting company. See the definitions of “large
    accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and
    “small reporting company” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
    “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated
    filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule
    12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer

þ

Accelerated
    filer

o

Non-accelerated
    filer

o

Smaller
    reporting company

o

(Do not check if a smaller
    reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

As of June 29, 2007, the last business day of the
    registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter,
    the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock
    held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $8,001,585,670
    based on the closing sale price on that date as reported on the
    New York Stock Exchange.

The Company had 355,352,992 shares of common stock
    outstanding as of February 21, 2008.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Description of document

Part of the Form 10-K

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be used in
    connection with the registrant’s 2008 Annual Meeting of
    Stockholders

Part III (Item 10 through Item 14)

Las Vegas
    Sands Corp.

Table of
    Contents

ii


PART I

ITEM 1. —

BUSINESS

Overview

Las Vegas Sands Corp. and its subsidiaries (“we” or
    the “Company”) own and operate The Venetian Resort
    Hotel Casino (“The Venetian”), The Palazzo Resort
    Hotel Casino (“The Palazzo”), The Sands Expo and
    Convention Center (“The Sands Expo Center”) and The
    Congress Center in Las Vegas, Nevada, and the Sands Macao and
    The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel (“The Venetian Macao”)
    in Macao, China. We are also creating a master-planned
    development of integrated resort properties, anchored by The
    Venetian Macao, which we refer to as the Cotai
    Strip

TM

in Macao. In addition, we are developing Marina Bay Sands, an
    integrated resort in Singapore, and Sands Bethworks, an
    integrated resort in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. We are exploring
    the possibility of developing and operating integrated resorts
    in additional Asian and U.S. jurisdictions, and in Europe.

Our
    Company

Las Vegas Sands Corp. was incorporated as a Nevada corporation
    in August 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock
    Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the symbol
    “LVS.” Immediately prior to our initial public
    offering in December 2004, we acquired 100% of the capital stock
    of Las Vegas Sands, Inc., a Nevada corporation and the direct or
    indirect owner and operator of The Venetian, The Sands Expo
    Center and Sands Macao, by merging Las Vegas Sands, Inc. with
    and into our wholly-owned subsidiary, leaving Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc. as the surviving subsidiary. Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was
    incorporated in Nevada in April 1988. In July 2005, Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc. was converted into a limited liability company and
    changed its name to Las Vegas Sands, LLC.

Our principal executive office is located at 3355 Las Vegas
    Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109. Our telephone number
    at that address is

(702) 414-1000.

Our website address is

www.lasvegassands.com.

The
    information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Our Annual Reports on

Form 10-K,

Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q,

Current Reports on

Form 8-K,

proxy statements and other Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”) filings, and any amendments to those reports
    that we file with or furnish to the SEC under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our
    website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
    electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

This Annual Report on

Form 10-K

contains certain forward-looking statements. See
    “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
    Statements.”

Our principal operating and developmental activities occur in
    three geographic areas: Las Vegas, Macao and Singapore.
    Management reviews the results of operations for each of our key
    operating segments: The Venetian, which includes The Sands Expo
    Center and The Congress Center; The Palazzo; Sands Macao; The
    Venetian Macao; and Other Asia (comprised primarily of the ferry
    operations). The Company also reviews its construction and
    development activities for each of its primary projects: The
    Venetian; The Palazzo; Sands Macao; The Venetian Macao; a Four
    Seasons hotel and casino development (“The Four Seasons
    Macao”); Other Asia (comprised of various other operations
    that are ancillary to our properties in Macao); Marina Bay Sands
    in Singapore; Other Development Projects (comprised primarily of
    our other projects on the Cotai Strip); and Corporate and Other
    (comprised primarily of the airplanes and our Sands Bethworks
    and Las Vegas condominium projects). See
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 15 — Segment
    Information.”

Operations

Las
    Vegas

Our Las Vegas operations consist of The Venetian, including The
    Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center, and The Palazzo. With
    the opening of The Palazzo, our Las Vegas properties represent
    the world’s largest integrated



resort with 7,093 suites and approximately 225,000 square
    feet of gaming, which includes approximately 260 table games and
    3,100 slot machines.

The Venetian has 4,027 suites situated in a 3,014-suite,
    35-story three-winged tower rising above the casino and the
    1,013-suite, 12-story Venezia tower situated above a parking
    garage. The casino at The Venetian has approximately
    120,000 square feet of gaming space and includes
    approximately 130 table games and 1,700 slot machines.
    The Venetian features a variety of amenities for its guests,
    including a Paiza
    Club

tm

;
    Canyon Ranch SpaClub, operated by Canyon Ranch; the Guggenheim
    Hermitage Museum, an art museum featuring masterpiece
    collections from the Guggenheim Museum in New York, the State
    Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia and other museums;
    and a theater/entertainment complex featuring a wide variety of
    entertainment. The Venetian also includes an enclosed retail,
    dining and entertainment complex of approximately
    440,000 square feet (“The Grand Canal Shops”),
    which was sold to General Growth Partners (“GGP”) in
    2004.

The Palazzo, which partially opened on December 30, 2007,
    features modern European ambience and design reminiscent of
    Italian affluent living, is situated adjacent to and north of
    The Venetian, and is directly connected to The Venetian, The
    Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center. The casino at The
    Palazzo is approximately 105,000 square feet and has
    approximately 130 table games and 1,400 slot machines. The
    Palazzo has a 50-floor luxury hotel tower with 3,066 suites and
    includes a Canyon Ranch SpaClub; a Paiza Club; an entertainment
    center; and an enclosed shopping and dining complex of
    approximately 400,000 net leasable square feet (“The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo”), which we have contracted to sell
    to GGP. We anticipate the transaction to close on
    February 29, 2008, or shortly thereafter.

With approximately 1.2 million gross square feet of exhibit
    and meeting space, The Sands Expo Center is one of the largest
    overall trade show and convention facilities in the United
    States (as measured by net leasable square footage). We also own
    and operate The Congress Center, an approximately
    1.1 million gross square foot meeting and conference
    facility that links The Sands Expo Center and the rest of The
    Venetian and The Palazzo. Together, we offer approximately
    2.3 million gross square feet of state-of-the-art
    exhibition and meeting facilities that can be configured to
    provide small, mid-size or large meeting rooms

and/or

accommodate large-scale multi-media events or trade shows.
    Management believes that these combined facilities, together
    with the

on-site

amenities offered by The Venetian and The Palazzo, offer a
    flexible and expansive space for large-scale trade shows and
    conventions.

Management markets The Congress Center to complement the
    operations of The Sands Expo Center for business conferences and
    upscale business events typically held during the mid-week
    period, thereby generating room-night demand and driving average
    daily room rates during the weekday move-in/move-out phases of
    The Sands Expo Center’s events. Events at The Sands Expo
    Center and The Congress Center typically take place during the
    week when Las Vegas hotels and casinos experience lower demand,
    unlike weekends and holidays during which occupancy and room
    rates are at their peak. Our goal is to draw from attendees and
    exhibitors at The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center to
    maintain mid-week demand at our hotels from this higher-budget
    market segment, when room demand would otherwise be derived from
    the lower-budget

tour-and-travel-group

market segment. In 2007, approximately 1.3 million visitors
    attended meetings, trade shows and conventions at The Sands Expo
    Center and The Congress Center.

Macao

Our Macao operations consist of the Sands Macao, The Venetian
    Macao and other ancillary operations that support these
    properties.

We own and operate the Sands Macao, the first Las Vegas-style
    casino in Macao, pursuant to a

20-year

gaming subconcession. The Sands Macao is situated near the
    Macao-Hong Kong Ferry Terminal on a waterfront parcel centrally
    located between the Gonbei border gate and the central business
    district. This location provides the Sands Macao primary access
    to a large customer base, particularly the approximately
    9.0 million visitors who arrived in Macao by ferry in 2007.
    The Sands Macao includes approximately 229,000 square feet
    of gaming space and currently has approximately 630 table games
    and 1,350 slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices.
    The Sands Macao also includes several restaurants, a spacious
    Paiza Club offering services and amenities to premium customers,
    luxurious VIP suites and spa facilities, private VIP gaming room
    facilities, a theater and other high-end



services and amenities. We recently opened our new 238-suite
    hotel tower, which increased the total number of suites
    available to nearly 300.

On August 28, 2007, we opened The Venetian Macao, the
    anchor property on our Cotai Strip development, which is located
    approximately two miles from Macao’s newly opened Taipa
    Temporary Ferry Terminal on Macao’s Taipa Island. The
    casino at The Venetian Macao is approximately
    550,000 square feet and has approximately 820 table games
    and 2,650 slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices,
    and a designed capacity of approximately 1,150 table games and
    7,000 slot machines or similar electronic gaming devices. The
    Venetian Macao, with a theme similar to that of The Venetian,
    also features a 39-floor luxury hotel tower with over 2,900
    suites; approximately 1.0 million square feet of retail and
    dining offerings; a convention center and meeting room complex
    of approximately 1.2 million square feet; and a 15,000-seat
    arena that has hosted a wide range of entertainment and sporting
    events. An 1,800-seat theater is currently scheduled to open in
    July 2008 and will feature an original production from Cirque du
    Soleil.

Management believes that the convention center and meeting room
    complex combined with the

on-site

amenities offered at The Venetian Macao offers a flexible and
    expansive space for large-scale trade shows and conventions. We
    market The Venetian Macao similar to our Las Vegas properties,
    with events at the convention and meeting room complex typically
    taking place during the week when hotels and casinos in Macao
    normally experience lower demand, unlike weekends and holidays
    during which occupancy and room rates are at their peak. Our
    goal is to draw from attendees and exhibitors at our convention
    and meeting room complex to maintain mid-week demand at our
    hotel from this higher-budget market segment.

United
    States Development Projects

Las
    Vegas Condominiums

We are in the early stages of constructing a high-rise
    residential condominium tower with approximately
    1.0 million saleable square feet that will be situated
    between The Palazzo and The Venetian. The condominium tower is
    currently expected to open in late 2009 and will be built at an
    estimated cost of approximately $600.0 million.

Sands
    Bethworks

On December 20, 2006, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board
    announced that our indirect majority-owned subsidiary, Sands
    Bethworks Gaming LLC (“Sands Bethworks Gaming”), had
    been awarded a Pennsylvania gaming license. Sands Bethworks
    Gaming is a project venture in which we effectively own 86% of
    the economic interest. In July 2007, we paid a
    $50.0 million licensing fee to the Commonwealth of
    Pennsylvania, and in August 2007 were issued our gaming license
    by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board. We are in the process
    of developing a gaming, hotel, shopping and dining complex
    called Sands Bethworks, located on the site of the Historic
    Bethlehem Steel Works in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, which is about
    70 miles from midtown Manhattan, New York. The

124-acre

development is expected to feature a 300-room hotel,
    200,000 square feet of retail space, up to 5,000 slot
    machines, a 50,000-square-foot multipurpose event center and a
    variety of dining options. We will own the property through our
    joint venture with Bethworks Now, LLC, which has yet to
    contribute the land in the joint venture. We expect the
    contribution to take place in 2008; however, no assurances can
    be given as to the timing of the contribution. If the land is
    not contributed as required under our agreement with Bethworks
    Now, LLC, we could lose all or a substantial part of our
    $116.9 million investment in Sands Bethworks as of
    December 31, 2007. Sands Bethworks is currently expected to
    open in summer 2009 and will be built at an estimated cost of
    approximately $600.0 million.

Macao
    Development Projects

We have submitted development plans to the Macao government for
    six integrated resort developments, in addition to The Venetian
    Macao, on an area of approximately 200 acres located on the
    Cotai Strip (which we refer to as parcels 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8).
    The developments are expected to include hotels, exhibition and
    conference facilities, casinos, showrooms, shopping malls, spas,
    restaurants, entertainment facilities and other attractions and
    amenities, as well as public common areas. We have commenced
    construction or pre-construction for these six parcels on the



Cotai Strip, and we plan to own and operate all of the casinos
    in these developments under our Macao gaming subconcession. More
    specifically, we intend to develop our other Cotai Strip
    properties as follows:

•

Parcel 2 is intended to be The Four Seasons Macao, which will be
    adjacent to The Venetian Macao and is expected to be a boutique
    hotel under the Four Seasons brand with approximately 400 luxury
    hotel rooms (including 19 Paiza mansions), distinctive dining
    experiences, a full service spa and other amenities,
    approximately 70,000 square feet of gaming space,
    approximately 220,000 square feet of upscale retail
    offerings and approximately 1.0 million square feet of Four
    Seasons-serviced and -branded luxury apartment hotel units. We
    will own the entire development. We have entered into an
    exclusive non-binding letter of intent and are currently
    negotiating definitive agreements under which Four Seasons
    Hotels Inc. will manage the hotel and serviced luxury apartment
    hotel under its Four Seasons brand. The Four Seasons Macao is
    expected to open in summer 2008, with the Paiza mansions coming
    on line in spring 2009 and the serviced luxury apartment hotel
    being completed in summer 2009.

•

Parcel 5 is intended to include a three-hotel complex with
    approximately 2,300 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms, a casino,
    a retail shopping mall and approximately 320 serviced luxury
    apartment hotel units. We will own the entire development and
    have entered into management agreements with
    Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts to manage two hotels under
    its Shangri-La and Traders brands and Starwood
    Hotels & Resorts Worldwide to manage a hotel and
    serviced luxury apartment hotel under its St. Regis brand.

•

Parcel 6 is intended to include a two-hotel complex with
    approximately 4,100 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms, a casino
    and a retail shopping mall physically connected to the mall in
    the Shangri-La/Traders hotel podium. We will own the entire
    development and have entered into a management agreement with
    Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide to manage the
    hotels under its Sheraton brand.

•

Parcels 7 and 8 are intended to include multi-hotel complexes
    with a total of approximately 6,150 luxury and mid-scale hotel
    rooms, a casino, retail shopping malls and approximately 450
    serviced luxury apartment hotel units that are physically
    connected to the hotel complexes. We will own the entire
    development and have entered into non-binding agreements with
    Hilton Hotels to manage Hilton and Conrad brand hotels and
    serviced luxury apartment hotels on parcel 7 and Fairmont
    Raffles Holdings to manage Fairmont and Raffles brand hotels and
    serviced luxury apartment hotels on parcel 8. We are currently
    negotiating definitive agreements with Hilton Hotels and
    Fairmont Raffles Holdings.

•

For parcel 3, we have signed a non-binding memorandum of
    agreement with an independent developer. We are currently
    negotiating the definitive agreement pursuant to which we will
    partner with the developer to build a multi-hotel complex, which
    may include a Cosmopolitan hotel. In addition, we have signed a
    non-binding letter of intent with Intercontinental Hotels Group
    to manage hotels under the Intercontinental and Holiday Inn
    International brands, and approximately 205 serviced luxury
    apartment hotel units under the Intercontinental brand, on this
    site. We are currently negotiating definitive agreements with
    Intercontinental Hotels Group. In total, the multi-hotel complex
    is intended to include approximately 3,940 hotel rooms, a
    casino, a retail shopping mall and serviced luxury apartment
    hotels.

The Four Seasons Macao is currently planned to feature
    approximately 130 table games and 225 slot machines. The casinos
    on parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 are currently planned to include a
    total of approximately 2,025 table games and 9,250 slot
    machines. Upon completion, our developments on the Cotai Strip
    (including The Venetian Macao) are currently planned to feature
    approximately 19,750 suites/rooms and 1.6 million square
    feet of gaming space with a capacity of approximately 3,300
    table games and 16,470 slot machines.

Currently, we expect the total cost to build our developments on
    the Cotai Strip to be approximately $12.0 billion, which
    includes the cost of constructing The Venetian Macao. As of
    December 31, 2007, we have capitalized $2.91 billion
    in costs on the Cotai Strip. We will need to arrange additional
    debt

and/or

equity financing to finance the balance of those costs and there
    is no assurance that we will be able to obtain all the
    additional financing required.

We have received a concession from the Macao government to build
    on parcels 1, 2 and 3 on the Cotai Strip, including the site on
    which we own and operate The Venetian Macao (parcel 1) and
    the site on which we are building The Four Seasons Macao (parcel
    2). We do not own these land sites in Macao. However, the land



concession, which has a term of 25 years and is renewable
    at our option, grants us exclusive use of the land. As specified
    in the land concession, we are required to pay premiums, which
    are payable over four years or are due upon the completion of
    the corresponding resort, as well as annual rent for the term of
    the land concession.

We do not yet have all the necessary Macao government approvals
    that we will need in order to develop all of our planned Cotai
    Strip developments. We have commenced construction or
    pre-construction for the projects on parcels 5, 6, 7 and 8 on
    the Cotai Strip for which we have not yet been granted land
    concessions. We are in the process of negotiating with the Macao
    government to obtain the land concession for parcels 5 and 6,
    and will subsequently negotiate the land concessions for parcels
    7 and 8. If we do not obtain land concessions, we could forfeit
    all or a substantial part of our $623.0 million in
    capitalized construction costs related to these developments as
    of December 31, 2007.

Hengqin
    Island Development Project

We have entered into a non-binding letter of intent with the
    Zhuhai Municipal People’s Government of the People’s
    Republic of China to work together to create a master plan for,
    and develop, a leisure and convention destination resort on
    Hengqin Island, which is located within mainland China,
    approximately one mile from the Cotai Strip. In January 2007, we
    were informed that the Zhuhai Government established a Project
    Coordination Committee to act as a government liaison empowered
    to work directly with us to advance the development of the
    project. We have interfaced with this committee and are working
    actively with the committee as we continue to advance our plans.
    The project remains subject to a number of conditions, including
    further governmental approvals.

Singapore
    Development Project

In August 2006, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Marina Bay Sands
    Pte. Ltd. (“MBS”), entered into a development
    agreement (the “Development Agreement”) with the
    Singapore Tourism Board (the “STB”) to build and
    operate an integrated resort called the Marina Bay Sands in
    Singapore. The Marina Bay Sands is expected to include three 50+
    story hotel towers (totaling approximately 2,700 rooms), a
    casino, an enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex of
    approximately 850,000 net leasable square feet, a
    convention center and meeting room complex of approximately
    1.2 million square feet, theaters and a landmark iconic
    structure at the bay-front promenade that contains an
    art/science museum. Although construction has started on the
    Marina Bay Sands, we are continuing to work with the Singapore
    government to finalize various design aspects of the integrated
    resort and are in the process of finalizing our cost estimates
    for the project. We expect the cost to design, develop and
    construct the Marina Bay Sands will be in excess of
    $4.0 billion, inclusive of payments made in 2006 for land
    premium, taxes and other fees. The Marina Bay Sands is expected
    to open in late 2009.

United
    Kingdom Development Projects

The United Kingdom government announced that the approval for
    the country’s first regional super casino had been
    rescinded. Should the government approve an alternative super
    casino site, we intend to evaluate the efficacy of participating
    in the tender process for that site. In addition, we have an
    existing agreement to develop and lease a gaming and
    entertainment facility with the Glasgow Rangers football club in
    the United Kingdom. Our ability to eventually develop and lease
    a gaming and entertainment facility under the agreement is
    subject to a number of conditions, including the passage of
    appropriate legislation and our ability to obtain a gaming
    license.

Other
    Development Projects

We are currently exploring the possibility of developing and
    operating additional properties, including integrated resorts,
    in additional Asian and U.S. jurisdictions, and in Europe.
    In December 2007, we submitted applications to the Kansas
    Lottery Commission for a gaming license and if we are
    successful, we plan to develop a casino resort in the Kansas
    City, Kansas, metropolitan area.



The Las
    Vegas Market

Competition
    for Our Las Vegas Operations

The hotel/casino industry is highly competitive. Hotels on the
    Las Vegas Strip compete with other hotels on and off the Las
    Vegas Strip, including hotels in downtown Las Vegas. Competitors
    of The Venetian and The Palazzo include resorts on the Las Vegas
    Strip, such as the Bellagio, Mandalay Bay, Wynn Las Vegas and
    Caesars Palace, and properties off the Las Vegas Strip. Several
    large projects also are expected to open in the next several
    years. Some of these facilities are or will be operated by
    companies that may have significant name recognition and
    financial and marketing resources, and may target the same
    demographic groups as we do. We also compete with legalized
    gaming from casinos located on Native American tribal lands. The
    proliferation of gaming in California and other areas located in
    the same region as The Venetian and The Palazzo could have an
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

Our Las Vegas hotel/casino operations also compete, to some
    extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and in
    Atlantic City, hotel/casino and other resort facilities
    elsewhere in the country and the world, Internet gaming websites
    and state lotteries. In addition, certain states have legalized,
    and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific areas. The
    continued proliferation of gaming venues could significantly and
    adversely affect our business. In particular, the legalization
    of casino gaming in or near major metropolitan areas from which
    we traditionally attract customers could have a material adverse
    effect on our business. The current global trend toward
    liberalization of gaming restrictions and the resulting
    proliferation of gaming venues could result in a decrease in the
    number of visitors to our Las Vegas facilities, which could
    adversely effect our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

Las Vegas generally competes with trade show and convention
    facilities located in and around major U.S. cities. Within
    Las Vegas, The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center compete
    with the Las Vegas Convention Center (the “LVCC”),
    which is located off the Las Vegas Strip and currently has
    approximately 3.2 million gross square feet of convention
    and exhibit facilities. A major expansion project for the LVCC
    is expected to be completed in 2010. In addition to the LVCC,
    Mandalay Bay, MGM Grand Hotel and Casino, Mirage and Wynn Las
    Vegas have convention and conference facilities that are The
    Congress Center’s primary Las Vegas competition. Several
    large projects, which are expected to open in the next several
    years, may include additional convention and conference
    facilities.

To the extent that any of the competitors of The Venetian and
    The Palazzo can offer a hotel/casino experience that is
    integrated with substantial trade show and convention,
    conference and meeting facilities, our competitive advantage in
    attracting trade show and convention, conference and meeting
    attendees could be adversely affected. In addition, other
    American cities are in the process of developing, or have
    announced plans to develop, convention center and other meeting,
    trade and exhibition facilities that may compete with ours.

The Macao
    Market

Introduction

Macao is regarded as the largest and fastest-growing gaming
    market in the world and benefits from being the only market in
    China to offer legalized casino gaming.

Macao
    as a Gaming and Resort Destination

In May 2004, Sands Macao became the first Las Vegas-style casino
    to open in Macao and with our opening of The Venetian Macao in
    August 2007, we believe that our high-quality gaming product has
    enabled us to capture a meaningful share of the overall market,
    including the VIP player market segment, in Macao.

Gaming revenues in Macao in 2007 reached a record
    $10.3 billion, a 46.6% increase over 2006. Visits to Macao
    were up 22.7% in 2007, when compared to 2006. According to Macao
    government statistics, during 2007 (through November), 21.4% of
    visitors traveling to Macao stayed overnight in hotels and
    guestrooms and, for those who stayed overnight in hotels and
    guestrooms, the average length of stay was between 1 and 2
    nights. We expect this length of stay to increase with increased
    visitation, the expansion of gaming and non-gaming amenities



including retail, entertainment, meeting and convention facility
    offerings, and the addition of upscale hotel resort
    accommodations in Macao.

Table games are the dominant form of gaming in Asia with
    baccarat being the most popular game, followed by other
    traditional U.S. and Asian games. Slot machines are offered
    in Macao, but the structure of the gaming market in Macao has
    historically favored table gaming. However, with the increase in
    the mass gaming market in Macao, slot machines of international
    standards are becoming an important feature of the market. We
    expect the slot machine business to grow in Macao and we intend
    to continue to introduce more modern and popular products that
    appeal to the Asian marketplace.

We believe that as new facilities and standards of service are
    introduced, Macao will become an even more desirable tourist
    destination. The improved experience of visitors to Macao should
    lead to longer stays, an increased number of return trips from
    existing feeder markets and the opening of several new feeder
    markets. In addition, we believe that a wealthier Chinese middle
    class will lead to increased travel to Macao and generate
    increased demand for gaming, entertainment and resort offerings.
    We also believe that the combination of less onerous travel
    restrictions, the greater ability of Chinese citizens to bring
    renminbi (the Chinese currency) to Macao, increasing regional
    wealth and the opening of world-class facilities will transform
    Macao to a

multi-day

travel destination similar to Las Vegas.

Proximity
    to Major Asian Cities

Approximately 1.0 billion people are estimated to live
    within a

three-hour

flight from Macao and approximately 3.0 billion people are
    estimated to live within a

five-hour

flight from Macao. According to Macao government statistics,
    85.4% of the tourists who visited Macao in 2007 came from Hong
    Kong or mainland China and the dominant feeder markets to Macao
    have been, and continue to be, Hong Kong and China. Although the
    total number of visitors from Hong Kong continues to grow, that
    market has shrunk as a percentage of the total visitor
    distribution from 44.2% in 2002 to 30.3% in 2007, while visitors
    from mainland China made up 55.1% of total visitors to Macao in
    2007. Until recently, mainland Chinese were permitted to visit
    Macao only as part of a tour group. Now that these travel
    restrictions have eased for mainland Chinese from most urban
    centers and economically developed regions, individual travel to
    Macao is expected to increase, generating increased demand for
    casino offerings.

Gaming customers from Hong Kong, southeast China, Taiwan and
    other locations in Asia can reach Macao in a relatively short
    period of time, using a variety of methods of transportation,
    and visitors from more distant locations in Asia can take
    advantage of short travel times by air to Macao, Zhuhai,
    Shenzhen, Guangzhou or to Hong Kong (followed by a road, ferry
    or helicopter trip to Macao). In addition, numerous carriers fly
    directly into Macao International Airport from many major cities
    in Asia. The relatively easy access from major population
    centers promotes Macao as a popular gaming destination in Asia.

Macao draws a significant number of gaming customers from both
    visitors to and residents of Hong Kong. One of the major methods
    of transportation to Macao from Hong Kong is the jetfoil ferry
    service, including our ferry service, The Cotai Strip
    CotaiJet

tm

,
    which we opened in late 2007. Macao is also accessible from Hong
    Kong by helicopter. In addition, the proposed bridge linking
    Hong Kong, Macao and Zhuhai is expected to reduce the travel
    time between central Hong Kong and Macao. The bridge is expected
    be completed sometime between 2012 and 2015.

The Macao pataca and the Hong Kong dollar are linked to each
    other and, in many cases, are used interchangeably in Macao.
    However, currency exchange controls and restrictions on the
    export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact
    the success of our operations. For example, there are currently
    existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the
    export of the renminbi. In addition, restrictions on the export
    of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from
    China to Macao, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macao and
    negatively impact our gaming operations.



Competition
    in Macao

Gaming in Macao is administered through government-sanctioned
    concessions awarded to three different concessionaires and three
    subconcessionaires, of which we are one. The Macao government is
    precluded by contract from granting any additional gaming
    concessions until 2009. In addition, the current laws only
    permit three gaming concessions, although future subconcessions
    are permitted. However, the laws could change and permit the
    Macao government to grant additional gaming concessions before
    2009. If the Macao government were to allow additional
    competitors to operate in Macao through the grant of additional
    concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional
    competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

SJM, controlled by Stanley Ho, holds one of the three
    concessions and currently operates 19 facilities throughout
    Macao. Historically, SJM was the only gaming operator in Macao,
    with over 40 years of operating experience in Macao. Many
    of its 19 casinos are relatively small facilities that are
    offered as amenities in hotels; however, a number are large
    operations enjoying significant recognition by gaming customers
    in the marketplace. SJM was obligated to invest at least
    approximately 4.7 billion patacas (approximately
    $584.6 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2007) by March 31, 2009, under its
    concession agreement with the government of Macao. SJM’s
    projects include the Grand Lisboa; the Fisherman’s Wharf
    entertainment complex, which opened in December 2005; and other
    projects. In addition, MGM MIRAGE has entered into a joint
    venture agreement with Stanley Ho’s daughter, Pansy Ho
    Chiu-king, to develop, build and operate two major hotel/casino
    resorts in Macao. In April 2005, MGM Grand Paradise Limited
    obtained a subconcession allowing it to conduct gaming
    operations in Macao. The MGM Grand Macau opened in December 2007
    and features approximately 600 rooms, 375 table games, 900 slot
    machines, restaurants and entertainment amenities.

Galaxy Casino Company Limited (“Galaxy”) holds a
    concession and has the ability to operate casino properties
    independent of us. Galaxy was obligated to invest at least
    4.4 billion patacas (approximately $547.3 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2007) by June
    2012 under its concession agreement with the government of
    Macao. Galaxy currently operates five casinos in Macao,
    including StarWorld Hotel, which opened in October 2006 and has
    over 500 hotel rooms and a 140,000 square foot gaming floor
    with approximately 260 table games and 500 slot machines.

Wynn Resorts (Macau), S.A. (“Wynn Macau”), a
    subsidiary of Wynn Resorts Limited, holds the third concession.
    Wynn Macau opened in September 2006 and expanded the property in
    late 2007. Wynn Macau now includes an approximately 600-room
    hotel, a casino and other non-gaming amenities. In 2006, Wynn
    Macau sold its subconcession right under its gaming concession
    to an affiliate of Publishing and Broadcasting Limited
    (“PBL”). The subconcession right permitted the PBL
    affiliate to receive a gaming subconcession from the Macao
    government. In May 2007, a PBL affiliate opened the Crown Macau,
    which includes an approximately 216-room hotel, a casino and
    other non-gaming amenities.

Our Macao operations will also face competition from casinos
    located in other areas of Asia, such as the major gaming and
    resort destination Genting Highlands Resort, located outside of
    Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and casinos in South Korea and the
    Philippines, as well as pachinko and pachislot parlors in Japan.
    We will also encounter competition from other major gaming
    centers worldwide.

Advertising
    and Marketing

We advertise in many types of media, including television,
    radio, newspapers, magazines and billboards, to promote general
    market awareness of our properties as unique vacation, business
    and convention destinations due to our first-class hotels,
    casinos, retail stores, restaurants and other amenities. We
    actively engage in direct marketing as allowed in various
    geographic regions, which is targeted at specific market
    segments, including the premium slot and table games markets.



Regulation
    and Licensing

State
    of Nevada

The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the
    State of Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and
    the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the
    “Nevada Act”) and various local regulations. Our
    gaming operations are also subject to the licensing and
    regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the
    “Nevada Commission”), the Nevada Gaming Control Board
    (the “Nevada Board”) and the Clark County Liquor and
    Gaming Licensing Board (the “CCLGLB” and together with
    the Nevada Commission and the Nevada Board, the “Nevada
    Gaming Authorities”).

The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada
    Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy
    that are concerned with, among other things:

•

the prevention of unsavory or unsuitable persons from having a
    direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any
    capacity;

•

the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting
    practices and procedures;

•

the maintenance of effective controls over the financial
    practices of licensees, including establishing minimum
    procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of
    assets and revenues, providing reliable record-keeping and
    requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities;

•

the prevention of cheating and fraudulent practices; and

•

the establishment of a source of state and local revenues
    through taxation and licensing fees.

Any change in such laws, regulations and procedures could have
    an adverse effect on our Las Vegas operations.

Las Vegas Sands, LLC is licensed by the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities to operate both The Venetian and The Palazzo as a
    single resort hotel as set forth in the Nevada Act. The gaming
    license requires the periodic payment of fees and taxes and is
    not transferable. Las Vegas Sands, LLC is also registered as an
    intermediary company of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC. Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC is licensed as a manufacturer and distributor
    of gaming devices. Las Vegas Sands, LLC and Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC are collectively referred to as the “licensed
    subsidiaries.” Las Vegas Sands Corp. is registered with the
    Nevada Commission as a publicly-traded corporation (the
    “registered corporation”). As such, we must
    periodically submit detailed financial and operating reports to
    the Nevada Gaming Authorities and furnish any other information
    that the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require. No person may
    become a stockholder of, or receive any percentage of the
    profits from, the licensed subsidiaries without first obtaining
    licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities.
    Additionally, the CCLGLB has taken the position that it has the
    authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock
    of any corporation controlling a gaming licensee. We, and the
    licensed subsidiaries, possess all state and local government
    registrations, approvals, permits and licenses required in order
    for us to engage in gaming activities at The Venetian and The
    Palazzo.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who
    has a material relationship to or material involvement with us
    or the licensed subsidiaries to determine whether such
    individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business
    associate of a gaming licensee. Officers, directors and certain
    key employees of the licensed subsidiaries must file
    applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and may be
    required to be licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Our
    officers, directors and key employees who are actively and
    directly involved in the gaming activities of the licensed
    subsidiaries may be required to be licensed or found suitable by
    the Nevada Gaming Authorities.

The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for
    licensing or a finding of suitability for any cause they deem
    reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing;
    both require submission of detailed personal and financial
    information followed by a thorough investigation. The applicant
    for licensing or a finding of suitability, or the gaming
    licensee by whom the applicant is employed or for whom the
    applicant serves, must pay all the costs of the investigation.
    Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada
    Gaming Authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny
    an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the
    Nevada Gaming Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a
    change in a corporate position.



If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer,
    director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or to have an
    inappropriate relationship with us or the licensed subsidiaries,
    we would have to sever all relationships with such person. In
    addition, the Nevada Commission may require us or the licensed
    subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any person who
    refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of
    suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject
    to judicial review in Nevada.

We, and the licensed subsidiaries, are required to submit
    periodic detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada
    Commission. Substantially all of our and our licensed
    subsidiaries’ material loans, leases, sales of securities
    and similar financing transactions must be reported to or
    approved by the Nevada Commission.

If it were determined that we or a licensed subsidiary violated
    the Nevada Act, the registration and gaming licenses we then
    hold could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked,
    subject to compliance with certain statutory and regulatory
    procedures. In addition, we and the persons involved could be
    subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the
    Nevada Act at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Further,
    a supervisor could be appointed by the Nevada Commission to
    operate the casinos, and, under certain circumstances, earnings
    generated during the supervisor’s appointment (except for
    the reasonable rental value of the casinos) could be forfeited
    to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension
    of any gaming registration or license or the appointment of a
    supervisor could (and revocation of any gaming license would)
    materially adversely affect our gaming operations.

Any beneficial holder of our voting securities, regardless of
    the number of shares owned, may be required to file an
    application, be investigated, and have its suitability as a
    beneficial holder of our voting securities determined if the
    Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such ownership
    would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of
    the State of Nevada. The applicant must pay all costs of
    investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in
    conducting any such investigation.

The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of
    our voting securities to report the acquisition to the Nevada
    Commission. The Nevada Act requires that beneficial owners of
    more than 10% of our voting securities apply to the Nevada
    Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after
    the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice
    requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an
    “institutional investor” as defined in the Nevada Act,
    which acquires more than 10% but not more than 15% of our voting
    securities, may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of
    such finding of suitability if such institutional investor holds
    the voting securities only for investment purposes.

An institutional investor will be deemed to hold voting
    securities only for investment purposes if it acquires and holds
    the voting securities in the ordinary course of business as an
    institutional investment and not for the purpose of causing,
    directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the
    members of our board of directors, any change in our corporate
    charter, by-laws, management, policies or our operations or any
    of our gaming affiliates, or any other action which the Nevada
    Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding our voting
    securities only for investment purposes. Activities that are
    deemed consistent with holding voting securities only for
    investment purposes include:

•

voting on all matters voted on by stockholders;

•

making financial and other inquiries of management of the type
    normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes
    and not to cause a change in management, policies or
    operations; and

•

such other activities as the Nevada Commission may determine to
    be consistent with such investment intent.

If the beneficial holder of voting securities who must be found
    suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit
    detailed business and financial information including a list of
    beneficial owners. If the beneficial holder of nonvoting
    securities who must be licensed or found suitable is a
    corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed
    business and financial information including a list of
    beneficial owners. The applicant is required to pay all costs of
    investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
    suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered
    to do so by the Nevada Commission or the Chairman of the Nevada
    Board may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a
    record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to
    identify the beneficial owner.



Any stockholder found unsuitable and who holds, directly or
    indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a
    registered corporation beyond such period of time as may be
    prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal
    offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we
    receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder
    or to have any other relationship with us or a licensed
    subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries:

•

allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any
    voting right conferred through securities held by that person;

•

pay remuneration in any form to that person for services
    rendered or otherwise; or

•

fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable
    person to relinquish his or her voting securities for cash at
    fair market value.

Our charter documents include provisions intended to help us
    comply with these requirements.

The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder
    of any debt security of a registered corporation to file an
    application, be investigated and be found suitable to own the
    debt security of such registered corporation. If the Nevada
    Commission determines that a person is unsuitable to own such
    security, then pursuant to the Nevada Act, the registered
    corporation can be sanctioned, including the loss of its
    approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada
    Commission, it:

•

pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest, or any
    distribution whatsoever;

•

recognizes any voting right by such unsuitable person in
    connection with such securities;

•

pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or

•

makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal,
    redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar
    transaction.

We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada
    that may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any
    time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a
    nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the
    identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities and we are also required to disclose the identity of
    the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure
    to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record
    holder unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum
    assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner.
    The Nevada Commission has the power to require our stock
    certificates to bear a legend indicating that such securities
    are subject to the Nevada Act. However, to date, the Nevada
    Commission has not imposed such a requirement on us.

We cannot make a public offering of any securities without the
    prior approval of the Nevada Commission if the securities or the
    proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct,
    acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or
    extend obligations incurred for such purposes. On
    November 16, 2006, the Nevada Commission granted us prior
    approval to make public offerings for a period of two years,
    subject to certain conditions (the “shelf approval”).
    The shelf approval includes prior approval by the Nevada
    Commission permitting us to place restrictions on the transfer
    of the membership interests and to enter into agreements not to
    encumber the membership interests of Las Vegas Sands, LLC.
    However, the shelf approval may be rescinded for good cause
    without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop
    order by the Chairman of the Nevada Board. The shelf approval
    does not constitute a finding, recommendation, or approval by
    the Nevada Commission or the Nevada Board as to the investment
    merits of any securities offered under the shelf approval. Any
    representation to the contrary is unlawful.

Changes in our control through a merger, consolidation, stock or
    asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement, or any
    act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control,
    shall not occur without the prior approval of the Nevada
    Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered
    corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada
    Commission concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to
    assuming control of such registered corporation. The Nevada
    Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers,
    directors and other persons having a material relationship or
    involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be
    investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the
    transaction.



The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate
    acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting
    securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming
    licensees, and registered corporations that are affiliated with
    those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive
    corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has established a
    regulatory scheme to ameliorate the potentially adverse effects
    of these business practices upon Nevada’s gaming industry
    and to further Nevada’s policy to:

•

assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and
    their affiliates;

•

preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the
    corporate form; and

•

promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of
    corporate affairs.

Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the
    Nevada Commission before we can make exceptional repurchases of
    voting securities above the current market price thereof and
    before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be
    consummated.

The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of
    recapitalization proposed by the board of directors in response
    to a tender offer made directly to the registered
    corporation’s stockholders for the purposes of acquiring
    control of the registered corporation.

License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending upon
    the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the
    State of Nevada and to Clark County, Nevada. Depending upon the
    particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable
    monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon:

•

a percentage of the gross revenues received;

•

the number of gaming devices operated; or

•

the number of table games operated.

The tax on gross revenues received is generally 6.75%. In
    addition, an excise tax is paid by us on charges for admission
    to any facility where certain forms of live entertainment are
    provided. Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, is also required to pay
    certain fees and taxes to the State of Nevada as a licensed
    manufacturer and distributor.

Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered,
    required to be registered, or under common control with such
    persons (collectively, “licensees”), and who proposes
    to become involved in a gaming operation outside of Nevada, is
    required to deposit with the Nevada Board, and thereafter
    maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the
    expenses of any investigation by the Nevada Board into their
    participation in such foreign gaming operation. The revolving
    fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the
    Nevada Commission. Thereafter, licensees are also required to
    comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada
    Act. Licensees are also subject to disciplinary action by the
    Nevada Commission if they knowingly violate any laws of any
    foreign jurisdiction pertaining to such foreign gaming
    operation, fail to conduct such foreign gaming operation in
    accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required
    of Nevada gaming operations, engage in activities that are
    harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming
    taxes and fees, or employ a person in such foreign operation who
    has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada
    on the ground of personal unsuitability or who has been found
    guilty of cheating at gambling.

The sale of alcoholic beverages by the licensed subsidiaries on
    the casino premises and The Sands Expo Center is subject to
    licensing, control and regulation by the applicable local
    authorities. Our licensed subsidiaries have obtained the
    necessary liquor licenses to sell alcoholic beverages. All
    licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies
    involved have full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke
    any such licenses, and any such disciplinary action could (and
    revocation of such licenses would) have a material adverse
    effect upon our operations.

Commonwealth
    of Pennsylvania

Sands Bethworks Gaming is subject to the rules and regulations
    promulgated by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the
    Pennsylvania State Police and other agencies (collectively, the
    “PaGCB”).



On December 20, 2006, we were awarded one of two category 2
    “at large” gaming licenses available in Pennsylvania,
    and a location in the Pocono Mountains was awarded the other
    category 2 “at large” license. On the same day, two
    category 2 licenses were awarded to applicants for locations in
    Philadelphia, one category 2 license was awarded to an applicant
    in Pittsburgh, and six race tracks were awarded permanent
    category 1 licenses. The principal difference between category 1
    and category 2 licenses is that the former is available only to
    certain race tracks. A category 1 or category 2 licensee is
    authorized to open with up to 3,000 slot machines and to
    increase to up to 5,000 slot machines upon approval of the
    PaGCB, which may not take effect earlier than six months after
    opening. In July 2007, we paid a $50.0 million licensing
    fee to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and in August 2007 were
    issued our gaming license by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control
    Board. Just prior to the opening of Sands Bethworks, we will be
    required to make a deposit of $5.0 million to cover weekly
    withdrawals of our appropriate share of the cost of regulation
    and the amount withdrawn must be replenished weekly.

We must notify the PaGCB if we become aware of any proposed or
    contemplated change of control including more than 5% of the
    ownership interests of Sands Bethworks Gaming or of more than 5%
    of the ownership interests of any entity that owns, directly or
    indirectly, at least 20% of Sands Bethworks Gaming, including
    Las Vegas Sands Corp. The acquisition by a person or a group of
    persons acting in concert of more than 20% of the ownership
    interests of Sands Bethworks Gaming or of any entity that owns,
    directly or indirectly, at least 20% of Sands Bethworks Gaming
    with the exception of the ownership interest of a person at the
    time of the original licensure when the license fee was paid,
    would be defined as a change of control under applicable
    Pennsylvania gaming law and regulations. Upon a change of
    control, the acquirer of the ownership interests would be
    required to qualify for licensure and to pay a new license fee
    of $50.0 million. The PaGCB retains the discretion to
    eliminate the need for qualification and may reduce the license
    fee upon a change of control. The PaGCB may provide up to
    120 days for any person who is required to apply for a
    license and who is found not qualified to completely divest the
    person’s ownership interest.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of
    our voting securities will be required to apply to the PaGCB for
    licensure, obtain licensure and remain licensed. Licensure
    requires, among other things, that the applicant establish by
    clear and convincing evidence the applicant’s good
    character, honesty and integrity. Additionally, any trust that
    holds 5% or more of our voting securities is required to be
    licensed by the PaGCB and each individual who is a grantor,
    trustee or beneficiary of the trust is also required to be
    licensed by the PaGCB. Under certain circumstances, an
    “institutional investor” as defined under the
    regulations of the PaGCB, which acquires beneficial ownership of
    10% or more, but less than 15% of our voting securities, may not
    be required to be licensed by the PaGCB. In addition, any
    beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the
    number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the
    discretion of the PaGCB to file an application for licensure.

In the event a security holder is required to be found qualified
    and is not found qualified, the security holder may be required
    by the PaGCB to divest of the interest at a price not exceeding
    the cost of the interest.

Macao
    Concession and Our Subconcession

In June 2002, the Macao government granted a concession to
    operate casinos in Macao to Galaxy. Galaxy was one of three
    entities to be granted a casino license in Macao. During
    December 2002, we entered into a subconcession agreement with
    Galaxy, which was approved by the Macao government. The
    subconcession agreement allows us to develop and operate certain
    casino projects in Macao, including Sands Macao and The Venetian
    Macao, separately from Galaxy. Under the subconcession
    agreement, we were obligated to develop and open The Venetian
    Macao and a convention center by December 2007, which we did. We
    are also obligated to operate casino games of chance or games of
    other forms in Macao and are required to invest, or cause to be
    invested, at least 4.4 billion patacas (approximately
    $547.3 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2007) in various development projects in
    Macao by June 2009, which have been fulfilled as of
    December 31, 2007.

If the Galaxy concession is terminated for any reason, our
    subconcession will remain in effect. The subconcession may be
    terminated by agreement between ourselves and Galaxy. Galaxy is
    not entitled to terminate the subconcession unilaterally.
    However, the Macao government, with the consent of Galaxy, may
    terminate the subconcession under certain circumstances. Galaxy
    will develop hotel and casino projects separately from us.



We are subject to licensing and control under applicable Macao
    law and are required to be licensed by the Macao gaming
    authorities to operate a casino. We must pay periodic fees and
    taxes, and our gaming license is not transferable. We must
    periodically submit detailed financial and operating reports to
    the Macao gaming authorities and furnish any other information
    that the Macao gaming authorities may require. No person may
    acquire any rights over the shares or assets of Venetian Macau
    Limited and its subsidiaries (“VML”) without first
    obtaining the approval of the Macao gaming authorities.
    Similarly, no person may enter into possession of its premises
    or operate them through a management agreement or any other
    contract or through step in rights without first obtaining the
    approval of, and receiving a license from, the Macao gaming
    authorities. The transfer or creation of encumbrances over
    ownership of shares representing the share capital of VML or
    other rights relating to such shares, and any act involving the
    granting of voting rights or other stockholders’ rights to
    persons other than the original owners, would require the
    approval of the Macao government and the subsequent report of
    such acts and transactions to the Macao gaming authorities.

Our subconcession agreement requires approval of the Macao
    government for transfers of shares, or of any rights over such
    shares, in any of the direct or indirect stockholders in VML,
    including us, provided that such shares or rights are, directly
    or indirectly, equivalent to an amount that is equal or higher
    than 5% of the share capital in VML. This approval requirement
    will not apply, however, if the securities are listed and
    tradable on a stock market. In addition, this agreement requires
    that the Macao government be given notice of the creation of any
    encumbrance or the grant of voting rights or other
    stockholder’s rights to persons other than the original
    owners on shares in any of the direct or indirect stockholders
    in VML, including us, provided that such shares or rights are
    indirectly equivalent to an amount that is equal or higher than
    5% of the share capital in VML. This notice requirement will not
    apply, however, to securities listed and tradable on a stock
    exchange.

The Macao gaming authorities may investigate any individual who
    has a material relationship to, or material involvement with, us
    to determine whether our suitability

and/or

financial capacity is affected by this individual. Our
    shareholders with 5% or more of the share capital, directors and
    some of our key employees must apply for and undergo a finding
    of suitability process and maintain due qualification during the
    subconcession term, and accept the persistent and long-term
    inspection and supervision exercised by the Macao government.
    VML is required to immediately notify the Macao government
    should VML become aware of any fact that may be material to the
    appropriate qualification of any shareholder who owns 5% of the
    share capital, or any director or key employee. Changes in
    licensed positions must be reported to the Macao gaming
    authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny an
    application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the Macao
    gaming authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in
    corporate position. If the Macao gaming authorities were to find
    one of our officers, directors or key employees unsuitable for
    licensing, we would have to sever all relationships with that
    person. In addition, the Macao gaming authorities may require us
    to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file
    appropriate applications.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
    suitability after being ordered to do so by the Macao gaming
    authorities may be found unsuitable. Any stockholder found
    unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial
    ownership of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond
    the period of time prescribed by the Macao gaming authorities
    may lose their rights to the shares. We will be subject to
    disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is
    unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship
    with us, we:

•

pay that person any dividend or interest upon its shares;

•

allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any
    voting right conferred through shares held by that person;

•

pay remuneration in any form to that person for services
    rendered or otherwise; or

•

fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require that unsuitable
    person to relinquish its shares.

The Macao gaming authorities also have the authority to approve
    all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation
    holding a gaming license.



The Macao gaming authorities also require prior approval for the
    creation of liens and encumbrances over VML’s assets and
    restrictions on stock in connection with any financing.

The Macao gaming authorities must give their prior approval to
    changes in control of VML through a merger, consolidation, stock
    or asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement or any
    act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control.
    Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered corporation
    must satisfy the Macao gaming authorities concerning a variety
    of stringent standards prior to assuming control. The Macao
    Gaming Commission may also require controlling stockholders,
    officers, directors and other persons having a material
    relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire
    control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval
    process of the transaction.

The Macao gaming authorities may consider that some management
    opposition to corporate acquisitions, repurchases of voting
    securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Macao gaming
    licensees, and registered corporations that are affiliated with
    those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive
    corporate gaming.

The Macao gaming authorities also have the power to supervise
    gaming licensees in order to:

•

assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and
    their affiliates;

•

preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the
    corporate form; and

•

promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of
    corporate affairs.

The subconcession agreement requires the Macao gaming
    authorities’ prior approval of any recapitalization plan
    proposed by VML’s board of directors. The Chief Executive
    of Macao could also require VML to increase its share capital if
    he deemed it necessary.

The Macao government also has the right, after consultation with
    Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate the subconcession agreement at
    any time upon the occurrence of specified events of default,
    including:

•

the operation of gaming without permission or operation of
    business which does not fall within the business scope of the
    subconcession;

•

the suspension of operations of our gaming business in Macao
    without reasonable grounds for more than seven consecutive days
    or more than fourteen non-consecutive days within one calendar
    year;

•

the unauthorized transfer of all or part of our gaming
    operations in Macao;

•

the failure to pay taxes, premiums, levies or other amounts
    payable to the Macao government;

•

the failure to resume operations following the temporary
    assumption of operations by the Macao government;

•

the repeated failure to comply with decisions of the Macao
    government;

•

the failure to provide or supplement the guarantee deposit or
    the guarantees specified in the subconcession within the
    prescribed period;

•

the bankruptcy or insolvency of VML;

•

fraudulent activity by VML;

•

serious and repeated violation by VML of the applicable rules
    for carrying out casino games of chance or games of other forms
    or the operation of casino games of chance or games of other
    forms;

•

the grant to any other person of any managing power over
    VML; or

•

the failure by a controlling shareholder in VML to dispose of
    its interest in VML following notice from the gaming authorities
    of another jurisdiction in which such controlling shareholder is
    licensed to operate casino games of chance to the effect that
    such controlling shareholder can no longer own shares in VML.



In addition, we must comply with various covenants and other
    provisions under the subconcession, including obligations to:

•

ensure the proper operation and conduct of casino games;

•

employ people with appropriate qualifications;

•

operate and conduct casino games of chance in a fair and honest
    manner without the influence of criminal activities;

•

safeguard and ensure Macao’s interests in tax revenue from
    the operation of casinos and other gaming areas; and

•

maintain a specified level of insurance.

The subconcession agreement also allows the Macao government to
    request various changes in the plans and specifications of our
    Macao properties and to make various other decisions and
    determinations that may be binding on us. For example, the Macao
    government has the right to require that we contribute
    additional capital to our Macao subsidiaries or that we provide
    certain deposits or other guarantees of performance in any
    amount determined by the Macao government to be necessary. VML
    is limited in its ability to raise additional capital by the
    need to first obtain the approval of the Macao gaming and
    governmental authorities before raising certain debt or equity.

If our subconcession is terminated, all of our casino gaming
    operations and related equipment in Macao would be automatically
    transferred to the Macao government without compensation to us
    and we would cease to generate any revenues from these
    operations. In many of these instances, the subconcession
    agreement does not provide a specific cure period within which
    any such events may be cured and, instead, we would rely on
    consultations and negotiations with the Macao government to give
    us an opportunity to remedy any such default.

The Sands Macao and The Venetian Macao are being operated under
    our subconcession agreement. This subconcession excludes the
    following gaming activities: mutual bets, lotteries, raffles,
    interactive gaming and games of chance or other gaming, betting
    or gambling activities on ships or planes. Our subconcession is
    exclusively governed by Macao law. We are subject to the
    exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Macao in case of any
    dispute or conflict relating to our subconcession.

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022.
    Unless our subconcession is extended, on that date, all our
    casino operations and related equipment in Macao will
    automatically be transferred to the Macao government without
    compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues
    from these operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the
    Macao government may redeem our subconcession by giving us at
    least one year prior notice and by paying us fair compensation
    or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will
    be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during
    the tax year prior to the redemption. See “Risk
    Factors — Risks Associated with Our International
    Operations — We will stop generating any revenues from
    our Macao gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of
    our subconcession in 2022 or if the Macao government exercises
    its redemption right.”

Under the subconcession, we are obligated to pay to the Macao
    government an annual premium with a fixed portion and a variable
    portion based on the number and type of gaming tables employed
    and gaming machines operated by us. The fixed portion of the
    premium is equal to 30.0 million patacas (approximately
    $3.7 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2007). The variable portion is equal to
    300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for
    certain kinds of games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming
    table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical or
    mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines
    (approximately $37,314, $18,657 and $124, respectively, at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2007), subject to
    a minimum of 45.0 million patacas (or $5.6 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2007). We also
    have to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenues
    and applicable withholding taxes. We must also contribute 4% of
    our gross gaming revenue to utilities designated by the Macao
    government, a portion of which must be used for promotion of
    tourism in Macao. This percentage will be subject to change in
    2010.



Currently, the gaming tax in Macao is calculated as a percentage
    of gross gaming revenue. However, unlike Nevada, gross gaming
    revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a
    result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macao and are
    unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we have
    to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we
    were unable to collect on the related receivables from them. We
    are currently offering credit to customers in Macao on a very
    limited basis. If the laws are not changed, our business in
    Macao may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending
    credit to our customers. Although there are proposals to revise
    the gaming tax laws in Macao, there can be no assurance that the
    laws will be changed.

We have received an exemption from Macao’s corporate income
    tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games of
    chance for the five-year period ending December 31, 2008.
    See “Risk Factors — Risks Associated with Our
    International Operations — We are currently not
    required to pay corporate income taxes on our casino gaming
    operations in Macao. This tax exemption expires at the end of
    2008.”

Development
    Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board

On August 23, 2006, MBS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
    Company, entered into the Development Agreement with the STB to
    design, develop, construct and operate an integrated resort in
    Singapore called the Marina Bay Sands. The Development Agreement
    includes a concession for MBS to own and operate a casino within
    the integrated resort. In addition to the casino, the integrated
    resort will include, among other amenities, a hotel, a retail
    complex, a convention center and meeting room complex, theaters,
    restaurants and an art/science museum. MBS is one of two
    companies that has been awarded a concession to operate a casino
    in Singapore. Under the Development Agreement, the STB has
    provided a ten-year exclusive period during which only two
    licensees will be granted the right to operate a casino in
    Singapore. In connection with entering into the Development
    Agreement, MBS entered into a

60-year

lease with the STB for the parcels underlying the proposed site
    and entered into an agreement with the Land Transport Authority
    of Singapore for the provision of necessary infrastructure for
    rapid transit systems and roadworks within

and/or

outside the proposed site.

The casino concession provided under the Development Agreement
    is for 30 years commencing from the date the Development
    Agreement was entered into. In order to renew the casino
    concession, MBS must give notice to the STB and other relevant
    authorities in Singapore at least five years before its
    expiration in August 2036. However, the Singapore government may
    terminate the casino concession prior to its expiration in order
    to serve the best interests of the public, in which event fair
    compensation will be paid to MBS.

Under the Development Agreement, MBS is required to be licensed
    by the relevant gaming authorities in Singapore before it can
    commence operating the casino under the casino concession. In
    connection with issuing the gaming license, the relevant gaming
    authorities will look into various factors relating to MBS,
    including, but not limited to, (i) its reputation,
    character, honesty and integrity, (ii) whether or not it is
    sound and stable from a financial point of view,
    (iii) confirming that it has a satisfactory corporate
    ownership structure, (iv) the adequacy of its financial
    resources in order to ensure the financial viability of the
    proposed casino operations, (v) whether it has engaged and
    employed persons who have sufficient experience managing and
    operating a casino and that are suitable to act in such
    capacities, (vi) its ability to sufficiently establish and
    maintain a successful casino operation, (vii) confirming
    that there are no business associations with any person, body or
    association who is not of good repute, has a disregard for
    character, honesty and integrity, or has undesirable or
    unsatisfactory financial resources, (viii) determining
    whether the persons associated or connected with the ownership,
    administration or management of the casino operations or
    business are suitable persons to act in such capacity and
    (ix) the development and operation plan for the casino.

The Development Agreement contains, among other things,
    restrictions limiting the use of the leased land to the
    development and operation of the project, requirements that MBS
    obtain prior approval from the STB in order to subdivide the
    hotel and retail components of the project and prohibitions on
    any such subdivision during an exclusivity period of
    approximately eleven years from the signing of the Development
    Agreement. The Development Agreement also contains provisions
    relating to the construction of the project and associated
    deadlines for substantial completion and opening; the location
    of the casino within the project site and casino licensing
    issues; insurance requirements; and limitations on MBS’
    ability to assign the lease or sub-lease any portion of the land
    during the exclusivity period. In addition, the Development
    Agreement contains events of default, including, among



other things, the failure of MBS to perform its obligations
    under the Development Agreement and events of bankruptcy or
    dissolution.

The Development Agreement requires MBS to invest at least
    3.85 billion Singapore dollars (“SGD,”
    approximately $2.66 billion at exchange rates in effect as
    of December 31, 2007) in the integrated resort, which
    investment is to be allocated in specified amounts among the
    casino, hotel, food and beverage outlets, retail areas, meeting,
    convention and exhibition facilities, key attractions,
    entertainment venues and public areas. This minimum investment
    requirement must be satisfied in full upon the earlier of eight
    years from the date of the Development Agreement or three years
    from the issuance of the casino license. However, the casino
    license will not be granted by the relevant authorities in
    Singapore until at least 50% of the required investment has been
    made and at least 50% of the construction of the integrated
    resort is complete. MBS must complete the construction of the
    Marina Bay Sands by no later than August 22, 2014. MBS
    currently plans to complete and open substantially all of the
    integrated resort, including the casino, at the same time in
    late 2009. Under the terms of the Development Agreement, MBS has
    agreed to design, develop and construct the integrated resort in
    accordance with the plans set forth in its response to the
    request for proposal which was ultimately accepted by the STB.
    Any changes in the overall design and the components of the
    integrated resort from what was contained in the response to the
    request for proposal will require the prior approval of the
    Singapore government.

Under the proposed casino regulations, employees who exercise a
    significant influence over, or with respect to, the operations
    in the casino will need to be licensed by the relevant
    authorities in Singapore. MBS will also have to comply with
    proposed regulations concerning the location, floor plans and
    layout of the casino; internal controls with respect to casino
    operations; relationships with and permitted payments to junket
    operators; security; casino access by Singaporeans and
    non-Singaporeans; and those relating to social controls and
    maintaining law and order. These regulations have not been
    published, but MBS is actively engaged in a regular dialogue
    with the relevant authorities in Singapore in connection with
    the drafting, adoption and compliance with the proposed casino
    regulations.

Under the Development Agreement, MBS will have to pay an annual
    license fee that will cover the costs of implementing and
    enforcing the proposed regulations. This is expected to be
    between SGD 12.5 million to SGD 15.0 million
    (approximately $8.6 million and $10.4 million,
    respectively, at exchange rates in effect as of
    December 31, 2007) and will be reviewed every three
    years. The Company must continue to be the single largest entity
    with a direct or indirect controlling interest in MBS for the
    first ten years from the date of the Development Agreement, and
    its interest must be at least 20% thereafter. The Company is
    currently a 100% indirect controlling shareholder of MBS.

There will be a casino tax of 15% imposed on the gross gaming
    revenue from the casino, except in the case of gaming by premium
    VIP players, in which case a casino tax of 5% will be imposed on
    the gross gaming revenue generated from such VIP players. The
    tax rates will not be changed for at least 15 years. The
    casino tax will be deductible against the corporate income tax
    payable by MBS to the Singapore tax authorities. The provision
    for bad debts arising from the extension of credit granted to
    gaming patrons will not be deductible against gross gaming
    revenue when calculating the casino tax but will be deductible
    for the purposes of calculating corporate income tax (subject to
    the prevailing law). MBS will not be permitted to extend credit
    in connection with gaming at the casino except to premium
    players and non-Singapore residents.

The key constraint imposed on the casino under the Development
    Agreement is the total size of the gaming area, which must not
    be more than 15,000 square meters (approximately
    161,000 square feet). The following will not be counted
    towards the gaming area: back of house facilities, reception,
    toilets, food and beverage areas, retail shops, stairs,
    escalators and lift lobbies leading to the gaming area,
    aesthetic and decorative displays, performance areas and major
    aisles. The casino located within the Marina Bay Sands may not
    have more than 2,500 gaming machines, but there is no limit on
    the number of tables for casino games permitted in the casino.

Employees

We directly employ approximately 28,000 employees worldwide
    and hire temporary employees on an as-needed basis. The
    employees at The Venetian and The Palazzo are not covered by
    collective bargaining agreements.



We are not aware of any union activity at our Macao operations.
    We believe that we have good relations with our employees.

The unions currently on the Las Vegas Strip include Local 226
    Culinary, Workers Union of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant
    Employees International Union, the Operating Engineers Union and
    the Teamsters Union. Prior to and since the opening of The
    Venetian, Local 226 has requested that we recognize it as the
    bargaining agent for employees of The Venetian. We have declined
    to do so, believing that current and future employees are
    entitled to select their own bargaining agent, if any. In the
    past, when other hotel/casino operators have taken a similar
    position, Local 226 has engaged in certain confrontational and
    obstructive tactics, including contacting potential customers,
    tenants, and investors, objecting to various administrative
    approvals and picketing. Local 226 has engaged in these types of
    tactics with respect to The Venetian and may continue to do so.
    Although we believe we will be able to operate despite such
    dispute, no assurance can be given that we will be able to do so
    or that the failure to do so would not result in a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows. Although no assurances can be given, if employees
    decide to be represented by labor unions, management does not
    believe that such representation would have a material effect on
    our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Certain culinary personnel are hired from time to time for trade
    shows and conventions at The Sands Expo Center and are covered
    under a collective bargaining agreement between Local 226 and
    The Sands Expo Center. This collective bargaining agreement
    expired in December 2000. As a result, The Sands Expo Center is
    operating under the terms of the expired bargaining agreement
    with respect to these employees.

Intellectual
    Property

Our principal intellectual property consists of, among others,
    the “Sands,” “Venetian,” “Palazzo”
    and “Paiza” trademarks, all of which have been
    registered in various classes in the United States. In addition,
    we have also applied to register numerous other trademarks in
    connection with our properties and development projects in the
    U.S., Macao and Singapore. We have also registered

and/or

applied to register many of our trademarks in various foreign
    jurisdictions. These trademarks are brand names under which we
    market our properties and services. We consider these brand
    names to be important to our business since they have the effect
    of developing brand identification. We believe that the name
    recognition, reputation and image that we have developed attract
    customers to our facilities. Once granted, our trademark
    registrations are of perpetual duration so long as they are
    periodically renewed. It is our intent to maintain our trademark
    registrations.

Agreements
    Relating to the Malls

The
    Grand Canal Shops

On April 12, 2004, we entered into an agreement with GGP to
    sell The Grand Canal Shops and lease to GGP certain restaurant
    and other retail space at the casino level of The Venetian for
    approximately $766.0 million. We completed the sale of The
    Grand Canal Shops on May 17, 2004. On the same date, we
    leased to GGP 19 spaces on the casino level of The Venetian
    currently occupied by various retail and restaurant tenants for
    89 years with annual rent of one dollar per year, and GGP
    assumed our interest as landlord under the various space leases
    associated with these 19 spaces. In addition, on the same date,
    we agreed with GGP to:

•

continue to be obligated to fulfill certain lease termination
    and asset purchase agreements;

•

lease the Blue Man Group Theater space located within The Grand
    Canal Shops from GGP for a period of 25 years, subject to
    an additional 50 years of extension options, with initial
    fixed minimum rent of $3.3 million per year;

•

lease the gondola retail store and the canal space located
    within The Grand Canal Shops from GGP for a period of
    25 years, subject to an additional 50 years of
    extension options, with initial fixed minimum rent of
    $3.5 million per year; and

•

lease certain office space from GGP for a period of
    10 years, subject to an additional 65 years of
    extension options, with initial annual rent of $0.9 million.



The lease payments relating to the Blue Man Group Theater, the
    canal space within The Grand Canal Shops and the office space
    from GGP are subject to automatic increases of 5% in the sixth
    lease year and each subsequent fifth lease year.

The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo

The Shoppes at The Palazzo opened on January 18, 2008, with
    some tenants not yet open. We are selling The Shoppes at The
    Palazzo to GGP pursuant to a purchase and sale agreement dated
    as of April 12, 2004, as amended, regarding the development
    and sale of The Shoppes at The Palazzo (the “Amended
    Agreement”). The total purchase price to be paid by GGP for
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo is determined by taking The Shoppes
    at The Palazzo’s net operating income, as defined in the
    Amended Agreement, for months 19 through 30 of its operations
    (assuming that the rent and other periodic payments due from all
    tenants in month 30 was actually due in each of months 19
    through 30) divided by a capitalization rate. The
    capitalization rate is 0.06 for every dollar of net operating
    income up to $38.0 million and 0.08 for every dollar of net
    operating income above $38.0 million. On the closing date
    of the sale of The Shoppes at The Palazzo to GGP, which we
    expect to be on February 29, 2008, or shortly thereafter,
    GGP will be obligated to make an initial purchase price payment
    based on projected net operating income for the first
    12 months of operations (but in no event less than
    $250.0 million and only taking into account tenants open
    for business or paying rent as of the closing date). We are in
    the process of finalizing the amount of the initial payment;
    however, we expect it to range between $285.0 million and
    $295.0 million. Pursuant to the Amended Agreement, at the
    fourth, eighth, 12th, 18th, and 24th month after closing,
    the required purchase price will be adjusted (up or down, but
    will never be less than $250.0 million) based on projected
    net operating income for the upcoming 12 months. Subject to
    adjustments for certain audit and other issues, the final
    adjustment to the purchase price will be made on the

30-month

anniversary of the closing date and will be based on the formula
    described above. For all purchase price and purchase price
    adjustment calculations, “net operating income” will
    be calculated by using the “accrual” method of
    accounting and the final purchase price adjustment will be
    calculated by applying the base rent and other periodic payments
    payable by all tenants in the 30th month to the entire

12-month

period, as defined. Based on our continuing relationship with
    GGP related to its ownership of The Grand Canal Shops, knowledge
    of local market conditions and discussions with tenants,
    management believes the total purchase price to be paid by GGP
    will be in excess of $700.0 million.

Cooperation
    Agreement

Our business plan calls for each of The Venetian, The Palazzo,
    The Sands Expo Center, The Congress Center, The Grand Canal
    Shops and The Shoppes at The Palazzo, though separately owned,
    to be integrally related components of one facility (the
    “Integrated Resort”). In establishing the terms for
    the integrated operation of these components, the cooperation
    agreement sets forth agreements regarding, among other things,
    encroachments, easements, operating standards, maintenance
    requirements, insurance requirements, casualty and condemnation,
    joint marketing, and the sharing of some facilities and related
    costs. Subject to applicable law, the cooperation agreement
    binds all current and future owners of all portions of the
    Integrated Resort, and has priority over the liens securing Las
    Vegas Sands, LLC’s senior secured credit facility and any
    future liens that may secure any indebtedness of the owners of
    any portion of the Integrated Resort. Accordingly, subject to
    applicable law, the obligations in the cooperation agreement
    will “run with the land” if any of the components
    change hands.

Operating Covenants.

The cooperation agreement
    regulates certain aspects of the operation of The Sands Expo
    Center, The Grand Canal Shops, The Venetian, The Palazzo and The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo. For example, under the cooperation
    agreement, we are obligated to operate The Venetian continuously
    and to use it exclusively in accordance with standards of
    first-class Las Vegas Boulevard-style hotels and casinos.
    We are also obligated to operate and to use The Sands Expo
    Center exclusively in accordance with standards of first-class
    convention, trade show and exposition centers. The owners of The
    Grand Canal Shops and The Shoppes at The Palazzo are obligated
    to operate their properties exclusively in accordance with
    standards of first-class restaurant and retail complexes. For so
    long as The Venetian is operated in accordance with a
    “Venetian” theme, the owner of The Grand Canal Shops
    must operate The Grand Canal Shops in accordance with the
    overall Venetian theme.

Maintenance and Repair.

We must maintain The
    Venetian and The Palazzo as well as some common areas and common
    facilities that are to be shared with The Grand Canal Shops and
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo. The cost of maintenance of all
    shared common areas and common facilities is to be shared
    between us and the owners of The Grand Canal Shops and The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo. We must also maintain, repair, and
    restore The Sands Expo



Center and certain common areas and common facilities located in
    The Sands Expo Center. The owners of The Grand Canal Shops and
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo must maintain, repair, and restore
    The Grand Canal Shops and The Shoppes at The Palazzo and certain
    common areas and common facilities located within.

Insurance.

We and the owners of The Grand
    Canal Shops and The Shoppes at The Palazzo must maintain minimum
    types and levels of insurance, including property damage,
    general liability and business interruption insurance. The
    cooperation agreement establishes an insurance trustee to assist
    in the implementation of the insurance requirements.

Parking.

The cooperation agreement also
    addresses issues relating to the use of Intergrated
    Resort’s parking facilities and easements for access. The
    Venetian, The Palazzo, The Grand Canal Shops, The Shoppes at The
    Palazzo and The Sands Expo Center may use the parking spaces in
    the Integrated Resort’s parking facilities on a “first
    come, first served” basis, as long as each property retains
    use of sufficient spaces to comply with specified minimum
    parking standards. This means that each property shall have the
    right to use, at a minimum, sufficient spaces to comply with
    applicable laws and to conduct its business as permitted under
    the cooperation agreement. The Integrated Resort’s parking
    facilities are owned, maintained, and operated by us, with the
    operating costs proportionately allocated among

and/or

billed to the owners of the components of the Integrated Resort.
    Each party to the cooperation agreement has granted to the
    others non-exclusive easements and rights to use the roadways
    and walkways on each other’s properties for vehicular and
    pedestrian access to the parking garages.

Utility Easement.

All property owners have
    also granted each other all appropriate and necessary easement
    rights to utility lines servicing the Integrated Resort.

Consents, Approvals and Disputes.

If any
    current or future party to the cooperation agreement has a
    consent or approval right or has discretion to act or refrain
    from acting, the consent or approval of such party will only be
    granted and action will be taken or not taken only if a
    commercially reasonable owner would do so and such consent,
    approval, action or inaction would not have a material adverse
    effect on the property owned by such property owner. The
    cooperation agreement provides for the appointment of an
    independent expert to resolve some disputes between the parties,
    as well as for expedited arbitration for other disputes.

Sale of The Grand Canal Shops or The Shoppes at The Palazzo
    by GGP.

We have a right of first offer in
    connection with any proposed sale of The Grand Canal Shops or
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo by GGP. We also have the right to
    receive notice of any default by GGP sent by any lender holding
    a mortgage on The Grand Canal Shops or The Shoppes at The
    Palazzo, if any, and the right to cure such default subject to
    our meeting certain net worth tests.

ITEM 1A. —

RISK
    FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below
    as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report
    on

Form 10-K

in connection with evaluating the Company. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently
    deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely effect
    our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are
    forward-looking statements. See “Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Special Note Regarding
    Forward-Looking Statements.”

Risks
    Related to Our Business

Our
    business is particularly sensitive to reductions in
    discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the
    economy.

Consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and
    conventions and for the type of luxury amenities we offer may be
    particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy. Changes in
    consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending brought
    about by factors such as fears of war, future acts of terrorism,
    general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears
    of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy
    could reduce customer demand for the luxury products and leisure
    services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and
    harming our operations.



Our
    business is sensitive to the willingness of our customers to
    travel. Acts of terrorism, regional political events and
    developments in the conflicts in certain countries could cause
    severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the number of
    visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel.
    A substantial number of our customers for The Venetian and The
    Palazzo use air travel to come to Las Vegas. On
    September 11, 2001, acts of terrorism occurred in New York
    City, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. As a result of
    these terrorist acts, domestic and international travel was
    severely disrupted, which resulted in a decrease in customer
    visits to Las Vegas, including our properties. Developments in
    the conflicts in certain countries, and regional issues such as
    tension between the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan
    and issues relating to North Korea could have a similar effect
    on domestic and international travel. Most of our customers
    travel to reach our Las Vegas and Macao properties. Only a small
    amount of our business is generated by local residents.
    Management cannot predict the extent to which disruptions in air
    or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist
    act, outbreak of hostilities or escalation of war would
    adversely effect our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

An
    outbreak of highly infectious disease could adversely affect the
    number of visitors to our facilities and disrupt our operations,
    resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows.

In 2003, Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, Singapore and certain other
    regions experienced an outbreak of a highly contagious form of
    atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory
    syndrome (“SARS”). As a result of the outbreak, there
    was a decrease in travel to and from, and economic activity in,
    affected regions, including Macao. In addition, there have been
    fears concerning the spread of an “avian flu” in Asia.
    Potential future outbreaks of SARS, avian flu or other highly
    infectious diseases may adversely affect the number of visitors
    to our operating properties and our other properties we are
    currently developing. Furthermore, an outbreak might disrupt our
    ability to adequately staff our business and could generally
    disrupt our operations. If any of our customers or employees are
    suspected of having contracted certain highly contagious
    diseases, we may be required to quarantine these customers or
    employees or the affected areas of our facilities and
    temporarily suspend part or all of our operations at affected
    facilities. Any new outbreak of such a highly infectious disease
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

There
    are significant risks associated with our planned construction
    projects, which could adversely effect our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows from these planned
    facilities.

Our ongoing and future construction projects, such as our Cotai
    Strip projects, Marina Bay Sands, Sands Bethworks and the Las
    Vegas condominiums, entail significant risks. Construction
    activity requires us to obtain qualified contractors and
    subcontractors, the availability of which may be uncertain.
    Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays
    caused by events outside of our control or, in certain cases,
    our contractors’ control, such as shortages of materials or
    skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental

and/or

geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference,
    unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction
    materials or equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing
    problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite
    materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations
    from governmental or regulatory authorities could increase the
    total cost, delay, jeopardize, prevent the construction or
    opening of our projects, or otherwise affect the design and
    features. In addition, the number of ongoing projects and their
    locations throughout the world present unique challenges and
    risks to our management structure. If our management is unable
    to successfully manage our worldwide construction projects, it
    could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows.

We have not entered into a fixed-price or guaranteed maximum
    price contract with a single construction manager or general
    contractor for the construction of our projects. As a result, we
    rely heavily on our in-house development and construction team
    to manage construction costs and coordinate the work of the
    various trade contractors. The lack of any fixed-price contract
    with a construction manager or general contractor will put more
    of the risk of cost-overruns on us. If we are unable to manage
    costs or we are unable to raise additional capital required,



we may not be able to open or complete these projects, which may
    have an adverse impact on our business and prospects for growth.

The anticipated costs and completion dates for our projects are
    based on budgets, designs, development and construction
    documents and schedule estimates that we have prepared with the
    assistance of architects and other construction development
    consultants and that are subject to change as the design,
    development and construction documents are finalized and more
    actual construction work is performed. A failure to complete our
    projects on budget or on schedule may adversely effect our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

The failure to obtain the necessary financing, or satisfy these
    funding conditions, could adversely effect our ability to
    construct our development projects.

Because
    we are currently dependent upon our properties in two markets
    for all of our cash flow, we will be subject to greater risks
    than a gaming company with more operating properties or that
    operates in more markets.

We currently do not have material assets or operations other
    than our Las Vegas and Macao properties. As a result, we will be
    entirely dependent upon these properties for all of our cash
    flow until we complete the development of our Marina Bay Sands,
    Sands Bethworks and remaining Cotai Strip projects.

Given that our operations are currently conducted at properties
    in Las Vegas and Macao and that a large portion of our planned
    future development is in Macao and Singapore, we will be subject
    to greater degrees of risk than a gaming company with more
    operating properties in more markets. The risks to which we will
    have a greater degree of exposure include the following:

•

local economic and competitive conditions;

•

inaccessibility due to inclement weather, road construction or
    closure of primary access routes;

•

decline in air passenger traffic due to higher ticket costs or
    fears concerning air travel;

•

changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations,
    including gaming laws and regulations;

•

natural and other disasters, including the risk of typhoons in
    the South China region or outbreaks of infectious diseases;

•

an increase in the cost of electrical power for our Las Vegas
    properties as a result of, among other things, power shortages
    in California or other western states with which Nevada shares a
    single regional power grid;

•

changes in the availability of water; and

•

a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas or Macao.

Our
    substantial debt could impair our financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows. We may need to incur additional
    debt to finance our planned construction projects.

We are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service
    obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately
    $7.57 billion of long-term debt outstanding. This
    substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to
    us. For example, it could:

•

make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations;

•

increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;

•

impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future
    for working capital needs, capital expenditures, development
    projects, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;

•

require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow
    from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our
    debt, which would reduce the funds available for our operations
    and development projects;

•

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in the business and the industry in which we operate;



•

place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that have less debt; and

•

subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases
    in interest rates to the extent a portion of our debt is and
    will continue to be at variable rates of interest.

We expect that all of our current projects will be funded with
    additional borrowings from our existing credit facilities, with
    the exception of the remaining Cotai Strip developments. We have
    a $3.3 billion credit facility for the partial financing of
    the Sands Macao expansion, The Venetian Macao, The Four Seasons
    Macao and certain of our other Cotai Strip developments. A
    significant portion of the Sands Macao’s cash flows was
    used to finance the construction of The Venetian Macao. This
    credit facility will not cover all of the costs of our remaining
    Cotai Strip developments. We expect that the construction of the
    Cotai Strip developments will require significant additional
    debt

and/or

equity financings. We cannot assure you that we will obtain all
    the financing required for the construction and opening of our
    remaining Cotai Strip developments.

The
    terms of our debt instruments may restrict our current and
    future operations, particularly our ability to finance
    additional growth, respond to changes or take some actions that
    may otherwise be in our best interests.

Our current debt instruments contain, and any future debt
    instruments likely will contain, a number of restrictive
    covenants that impose significant operating and financial
    restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to:

•

incur additional debt, including providing guarantees or credit
    support;

•

incur liens securing indebtedness or other obligations;

•

dispose of assets;

•

make certain acquisitions;

•

pay dividends or make distributions and make other restricted
    payments, such as purchasing equity interests, repurchasing
    junior indebtedness or making investments in third parties;

•

enter into sale and leaseback transactions;

•

engage in any new businesses;

•

issue preferred stock; and

•

enter into transactions with our stockholders and our affiliates.

In addition, our U.S., Macao and Singapore credit agreements
    contain various financial covenants. See
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt” for further description of these covenants. Our
    future debt agreements could contain financial or other
    covenants more restrictive than those applicable under our
    existing instruments.

Our
    insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible
    losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our
    insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain
    the same insurance coverage in the future.

Although we have all-risk property insurance for our operating
    properties covering damage caused by a casualty loss (such as
    fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism), each policy
    has certain exclusions. In addition, our property insurance
    coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the
    expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there
    was a total loss. Our level of insurance coverage also may not
    be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major
    casualty. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor
    strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to
    cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of
    terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage
    and pollution, might not be covered at all under our policies.
    Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured
    losses.



We also have builder’s risk insurance for many of our
    projects in Las Vegas, Pennsylvania, Macao and Singapore.
    Builder’s risk insurance provides coverage for projects
    during their construction for damage caused by a casualty loss.
    In general, our builder’s risk coverage is subject to the
    same exclusions, risks and deficiencies as those described above
    for our all-risk property coverage. Our level of builder’s
    risk insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses
    in the event of a major casualty.

In addition, although we currently have insurance coverage for
    occurrences of terrorist acts with respect to our properties and
    for certain losses that could result from these acts, our
    terrorism coverage is subject to the same risks and deficiencies
    as those described above for our all-risk property coverage. The
    lack of sufficient insurance for these types of acts could
    expose us to substantial losses in the event that any damages
    occur, directly or indirectly, as a result of terrorist attacks
    or otherwise, which could have a significant negative impact on
    our operations.

In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty
    loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these
    events or be subject to claims by third parties injured or
    harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and
    general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate
    to cover all losses in any such event.

We renew our insurance policies (other than our builder’s
    risk insurance) on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may
    become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy
    limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Among
    other factors, it is possible that regional political tensions,
    homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events or any
    change in government legislation governing insurance coverage
    for acts of terrorism could materially adversely effect
    available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on
    available coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our
    policy limits), additional exclusions from coverage or higher
    deductibles. Among other potential future adverse changes, in
    the future we may elect to not, or may not be able to, obtain
    any coverage for losses due to acts of terrorism.

Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to
    maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to
    satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default
    under these debt instruments or material agreements.

We
    depend on the continued services of key managers and employees.
    If we do not retain our key personnel or attract and retain
    other highly skilled employees, our business will
    suffer.

Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to
    a large degree on the services of our senior management team,
    including Sheldon G. Adelson. Mr. Adelson, William P.
    Weidner, Bradley H. Stone, Robert G. Goldstein and Robert P.
    Rozek have each entered into employment agreements; however, we
    cannot assure you that any of these individuals will remain with
    us. We currently do not have a life insurance policy on any of
    the members of the senior management team. The death or loss of
    the services of any of our senior managers or the inability to
    attract and retain additional senior management personnel could
    have a material adverse effect on our business.

We are
    controlled by a principal stockholder whose interest in our
    business may be different than yours.

Mr. Adelson and trusts for the benefit of Mr. Adelson

and/or

his
    family members beneficially own approximately 69% of our
    outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007.
    Accordingly, Mr. Adelson exercises significant influence
    over our business policies and affairs, including the
    composition of our board of directors and any action requiring
    the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of
    amendments to our articles of incorporation and the approval of
    a merger or sale of substantially all of our assets. The
    concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or even prevent
    a change in control of our company and may make some
    transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of
    Mr. Adelson. Because Mr. Adelson and trusts for the
    benefit of Mr. Adelson

and/or

his
    family members own more than 50% of the voting power of our
    company, we are considered a controlled company under the NYSE
    listing standards. As such, the NYSE corporate governance
    requirements that our board of directors and our compensation
    committee be independent, do not apply to us. As a result, the
    ability of our independent directors to influence our business
    policies and affairs may be reduced. The interests of
    Mr. Adelson may conflict with your interests.



We are
    a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be
    distributions from our subsidiaries.

We are a parent company with limited business operations of our
    own. Our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We
    conduct most of our business operations through our direct and
    indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our primary sources of cash
    are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership
    interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings
    and cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our
    subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash
    flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. Our
    subsidiaries’ payments to us will be contingent upon their
    earnings and upon other business considerations. In addition,
    our subsidiaries’ debt instruments and other agreements
    limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other
    distributions to us. We expect that the debt instruments for the
    financing of our other developments, including our Cotai Strip
    developments, will contain similar restrictions.

Risks
    Associated with Our U.S. Operations

We
    face significant competition in Las Vegas which could materially
    adversely effect our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows. Some of our competitors have substantial
    resources and access to capital, and several of them are
    expanding or renovating their facilities. In addition, any
    significant downturn in the trade show and convention business
    could significantly and adversely affect our mid-week occupancy
    rates and business.

The hotel, resort and casino businesses in Las Vegas are highly
    competitive. We also compete, to some extent, with other
    hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and in Atlantic City, as well
    as hotel/casinos and other resort facilities and vacation
    destinations elsewhere in the United States and around the
    world. Many of our competitors are subsidiaries or divisions of
    large public companies and have substantial financial and other
    resources.

In addition, various competitors on the Las Vegas Strip are
    expanding and renovating their existing facilities. If demand
    for hotel rooms does not keep up with the increase in the number
    of hotel rooms, competitive pressures may cause reductions in
    average room rates.

We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on
    Native American tribal lands, including those located in
    California. While the competitive impact on our operations in
    Las Vegas from the continued growth of Native American gaming
    establishments in California remains uncertain, the
    proliferation of gaming in California and other areas located in
    the same region as The Venetian and The Palazzo could have an
    adverse effect on our results of operations.

In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may
    legalize, casino gaming in specific areas, including
    metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract
    customers. A number of states have permitted or are considering
    permitting gaming at “racinos,” on Native American
    reservations and through expansion of state lotteries. The
    current global trend toward liberalization of gaming
    restrictions and resulting proliferation of gaming venues could
    result in a decrease in the number of visitors to our Las Vegas
    facilities by attracting customers close to home and away from
    Las Vegas, which could adversely effect our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center provide recurring
    demand for mid-week room nights for business travelers who
    attend meetings, trade shows and conventions in Las Vegas. The
    Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center presently compete with
    other large convention centers, including convention centers in
    Las Vegas and other cities. Competition will be increasing for
    The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center as a result of
    planned additional convention and meeting facilities, as well as
    the enhancement or expansion of existing convention and meeting
    facilities, in Las Vegas. Also, other American cities are in the
    process of developing, or have announced plans to develop,
    convention centers and other meeting, trade and exhibition
    facilities. To the extent that these competitors are able to
    capture a substantially larger portion of the trade show and
    convention business, there could be a material adverse effect on
    our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



The
    loss of our gaming license or our failure to comply with the
    extensive regulations that govern our operations could have an
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

Our gaming operations and the ownership of our securities are
    subject to extensive regulation by the Nevada Commission, the
    Nevada Board and the CCLGLB. The Nevada Gaming Authorities have
    broad authority with respect to licensing and registration of
    our business entities and individuals investing in or otherwise
    involved with us.

Although we currently are registered with, and Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC currently hold gaming
    licenses issued by, the Nevada Gaming Authorities, these
    authorities may, among other things, revoke the gaming license
    of any corporate entity or the registration of a registered
    corporation or any entity registered as a holding company of a
    corporate licensee for violations of gaming regulations.

In addition, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may, under certain
    conditions, revoke the license or finding of suitability of any
    officer, director, controlling person, stockholder, noteholder
    or key employee of a licensed or registered entity. If our
    gaming licenses were revoked for any reason, the Nevada Gaming
    Authorities could require the closing of the casino, which would
    have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition,
    compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations or
    licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or
    licenses applicable to our business or gaming licenses could
    require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

For a more complete description of the gaming regulatory
    requirements affecting our business, see
    “Item 1 — Business —
    Regulation and Licensing.”

Certain
    beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to
    file an application with, and be investigated by, the Nevada
    Gaming Authorities, and the Nevada Commission may restrict the
    ability of a beneficial owner to receive any benefit from our
    voting securities and may require the disposition of shares of
    our voting securities, if a beneficial owner is found to be
    unsuitable.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% of
    our voting securities will be required to apply to the Nevada
    Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after
    the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails a written notice
    requiring the filing. Under certain circumstances, an
    “institutional investor” as defined under the
    regulations of the Nevada Commission, which acquires beneficial
    ownership of more than 10% but not more than 15% of our voting
    securities, may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of
    such finding of suitability requirement if the institutional
    investor holds our voting securities only for investment
    purposes. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting
    securities, regardless of the number of shares beneficially
    owned, may be required at the discretion of the Nevada
    Commission to file an application for a finding of suitability
    as such. In either case, a finding of suitability is comparable
    to licensing and the applicant must pay all costs of
    investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in
    conducting the investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of
    suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered
    to do so by the Nevada Gaming Authorities may be found
    unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the
    record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial
    owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable and who holds, directly
    or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a
    registered corporation beyond such period of time as may be
    prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal
    offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we
    receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder
    or to have any other relationship with us or a licensed
    subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries:

•

allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any
    voting right conferred through securities held by that person;

•

pay remuneration in any form to that person for services
    rendered or otherwise; or

•

fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable
    person to relinquish his or her voting securities for cash at
    fair market value.

For a more complete description of the Nevada gaming regulatory
    requirements applicable to beneficial owners of our voting
    securities, see
    “Item 1 — Business —
    Regulation and Licensing — State of Nevada.”



Certain
    beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to
    file a license application with, and be investigated by, the
    Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania State Police
    and other agencies.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of
    our voting securities will be required to apply to the PaGCB for
    licensure, obtain licensure and remain licensed. Licensure
    requires, among other things, that the applicant establish by
    clear and convincing evidence the applicant’s good
    character, honesty and integrity. Additionally, any trust that
    holds 5% or more of our voting securities is required to be
    licensed by the PaGCB and each individual who is a grantor,
    trustee or beneficiary of the trust is also required to be
    licensed by the PaGCB. Under certain circumstances, an
    “institutional investor” as defined under the
    regulations of the PaGCB, which acquires beneficial ownership of
    10% or more, but less than 15% of our voting securities, may not
    be required to be licensed by the PaGCB. In addition, any
    beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the
    number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the
    discretion of the PaGCB to file an application for licensure.

Furthermore, a person or a group of persons acting in concert
    who acquire(s) more than 20% of our securities, with the
    exception of the ownership interest of a person at the time of
    original licensure when the license fee was paid, would trigger
    a “change in control” (as defined under applicable
    law). Such a “change in control” could require us to
    re-apply for licensure by the PaGCB and incur a
    $50.0 million license fee.

In the event a security holder is required to be found qualified
    and is not found qualified, the security holder may be required
    by the PaGCB to divest of the interest at a price not exceeding
    the cost of the interest.

If we
    are unable to maintain an acceptable working relationship with
    GGP

and/or

if GGP breaches any of its material agreements with us, there
    could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

We have entered into agreements with GGP under which, among
    other things:

•

GGP has agreed to operate The Grand Canal Shops subject to, and
    in accordance with, the cooperation agreement;

•

leases for The Shoppes at The Palazzo must be jointly approved
    by us and GGP; and

•

we lease from GGP certain office space and space located within
    The Grand Canal Shops in which the canal and the gondola retail
    store are located and the Blue Man Group Theater .

Each of the above-described agreements with GGP could be
    adversely affected in ways that could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows if we do not maintain an acceptable working relationship
    with GGP. For example:

•

if we are unable to agree with GGP on leases for The Shoppes at
    The Palazzo, the purchase price we will ultimately be paid for
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo could be substantially reduced, and
    there would, at least for a certain period of time, be an empty
    or partially empty mall within The Palazzo; and

•

the cooperation agreement that governs the relationships between
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo and The Palazzo and The Grand Canal
    Shops and The Venetian requires that the owners cooperate in
    various ways and take various joint actions, which will be more
    difficult to accomplish, especially in a cost-effective manner,
    if the parties do not have an acceptable working relationship.

There could be similar material adverse consequences to us if
    GGP breaches any of its agreements to us, such as its agreement
    under the cooperation agreement to operate The Grand Canal Shops
    consistent with the standards of first-class restaurant and
    retail complexes and the overall Venetian theme, and its various
    obligations as our landlord under the leases described above.
    Although the various agreements with GGP do provide us with
    various remedies in the event of any breaches by GGP and also
    include various dispute-resolution procedures and mechanisms,
    these remedies, procedures and mechanisms may be inadequate to
    prevent a material adverse effect on our operations and
    financial condition if breaches by GGP occur or if we do not
    maintain an acceptable working relationship with GGP.



We
    extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not
    be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit
    players.

We conduct our gaming activities on a credit basis as well as a
    cash basis. This credit is unsecured. Table games players
    typically are extended more credit than slot players, and
    high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than
    patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more
    volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss
    results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant
    positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a
    particular quarter.

Credit play at our Las Vegas properties is significant while at
    our Macao properties table games play is primarily cash play. We
    extend credit to those customers whose level of play and
    financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an
    extension of credit. For the year ended December 31, 2007,
    our table games drop at our Las Vegas properties was
    approximately 62.6% from credit-based guest wagering. These
    large receivables could have a significant impact on our
    operating results if deemed uncollectible.

While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including
    what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” and
    judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws
    of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable
    in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the
    U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that
    enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although
    courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts
    directly and the assets in the United States of foreign debtors
    may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts
    from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many
    foreign nations.

Risks
    Associated with Our International Operations

Conducting
    business in Macao and Singapore has certain political and
    economic risks which may effect the financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows of our Asian
    operations.

We currently own and operate the Sands Macao and The Venetian
    Macao. We are developing and plan to operate additional hotels,
    casinos and convention centers on the Cotai Strip in Macao. We
    also plan to own and operate the Marina Bay Sands in Singapore.
    Accordingly, our business development plans, financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially
    and adversely affected by significant political, social and
    economic developments in Macao and Singapore, and by changes in
    policies of the governments or changes in laws and regulations
    or their interpretations. Our operations in Macao are, and our
    operations in Singapore will be, also exposed to the risk of
    changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies
    based in those countries. Tax laws and regulations may also be
    subject to amendment or different interpretation and
    implementation, thereby adversely affecting our profitability
    after tax. Further, the percentage of our gross gaming revenues
    that we must contribute annually to the Macao authorities is
    subject to change in 2010. These changes may have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

As we expect a significant number of consumers to come to our
    Macao properties from China, general economic conditions and
    policies in China could have a significant impact on our
    financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or reversal
    of China’s current policies of liberalizing restrictions on
    travel and currency movements could adversely impact the number
    of visitors from China to our Macao properties as well as the
    amounts they are willing to spend at our properties.

Current Macao laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming
    concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is
    little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and
    regulations. We believe that our organizational structure and
    operations are in compliance in all material respects with all
    applicable laws and regulations of Macao. However, these laws
    and regulations are complex and a court or an administrative or
    regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of
    these laws and regulations, or issue regulations, which differs
    from our interpretation and could have a material adverse effect
    on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
    We expect the Marina Bay Sands to be the first gaming facility
    to open in Singapore following the government’s adoption of
    gaming legislation in 2005. Accordingly, the laws and
    regulations relating to gaming and their interpretations are
    untested.



In addition, our activities in Macao are, and our operations in
    Singapore will be, subject to administrative review and approval
    by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that we
    will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may
    materially affect our long-term business strategy and
    operations. Macao and Singapore laws permit redress to the
    courts with respect to administrative actions. However, such
    redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues.

We are
    constructing projects on the Cotai Strip in Macao on land for
    which we have not yet been granted concessions. If we do not
    obtain land concessions, we could forfeit all or a substantial
    part of our investment in these sites and would not be able to
    build or operate the planned facilities on these
    sites.

Land concessions in Macao generally have terms of 25 years,
    with automatic extensions at our option of 10 years
    thereafter and there are common rates based on land use
    generally used to determine the cost of these land concessions.
    We have not yet obtained land concessions from the Macao
    government for parcels 5, 6, 7 and 8 on the Cotai Strip. We are
    currently in the process of negotiating with the Macao
    government to obtain the land concession for parcels 5 and 6,
    and will subsequently negotiate the land concession for parcels
    7 and 8. If we do not obtain a land concession for parcels 5, 6,

and/or

8,
    we will not be able to open and operate the planned projects on
    these sites and we could forfeit all or a substantial part of
    our $623.0 million in capitalized construction costs
    related to these sites as of December 31, 2007.

The
    Macao government can terminate our subconcession under certain
    circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The Macao government has the right, after consultation with
    Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate our subconcession in the event
    of VML’s serious non-compliance with its basic obligations
    under the subconcession and applicable Macao laws. Upon
    termination of our subconcession, all of our casino gaming
    operations and related equipment in Macao would be automatically
    transferred to the Macao government without compensation to us
    and we would cease to generate any revenues from these
    operations. The loss of our subconcession would prohibit us from
    conducting gaming operations in Macao, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

We
    will stop generating any revenues from our Macao gaming
    operations if we cannot secure an extension of our subconcession
    in 2022 or if the Macao government exercises its redemption
    right.

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022.
    Unless our subconcession is extended, on that date, all of our
    casino operations and related equipment in Macao will be
    automatically transferred to the Macao government without
    compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues
    from these operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the
    Macao government may redeem the subconcession agreement by
    providing us at least one year prior notice. In the event the
    Macao government exercises this redemption right, we are
    entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such
    compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount
    of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the
    redemption. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew
    or extend our subconcession agreement on terms favorable to us
    or at all. We also cannot assure you that if our subconcession
    is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to
    compensate us for the loss of future revenues.

Our
    Macao operations face intense competition, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The hotel, resort and casino businesses are highly competitive.
    Our Macao operations currently compete with numerous other
    casinos located in Macao. In addition, we expect competition to
    increase in the near future from local and foreign casino
    operators. SJM, which is controlled by Stanley Ho, currently
    operates 19 gaming facilities in Macao, including the Grand
    Lisboa; the Fisherman’s Wharf entertainment complex; and a
    number of new hotel/casino projects. In addition, MGM MIRAGE
    entered into a joint venture agreement with Stanley Ho’s
    daughter, Pansy Ho Chiu-king, to develop, build and operate two
    major hotel/casino resorts in Macao. The MGM Grand



Macau opened in December 2007 and features approximately 600
    rooms, 375 table games, 900 slot machines, restaurants and
    entertainment amenities.

In addition, Wynn Macau opened in September 2006 and expanded
    the property in late 2007. Wynn Macau now includes an
    approximately 600-room hotel, a casino and other non-gaming
    amenities. In May 2007, a PBL Affiliate opened the Crown Macau,
    which includes an approximately 216-room hotel, a casino and
    other non-gaming amenities. The other concessionaire holder,
    Galaxy, currently operates five casinos in Macao, including
    StarWorld Hotel that opened in October 2006.

Our Macao operations will also compete to some extent with
    casinos located elsewhere in Asia, such as Malaysia’s
    Genting Highlands, as well as gaming venues in Australia, New
    Zealand and elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas. In
    addition, certain countries have legalized, and others may in
    the future legalize, casino gaming, including Hong Kong, Japan,
    Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand and other gaming centers
    worldwide. The proliferation of gaming venues in Southeast Asia
    could significantly and adversely effect our financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows.

The
    Macao and Singapore governments could grant additional rights to
    conduct gaming in the future, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
    or cash flows.

We hold a subconcession under one of only three gaming
    concessions authorized by the Macao government to operate
    casinos in Macao. The Macao government is precluded from
    granting any additional gaming concessions until 2009. However,
    we cannot assure you that the laws will not change and permit
    the Macao government to grant additional gaming concessions
    before 2009. In addition, the Macao government permits existing
    concessionaires to grant subconcessions. If the Macao government
    were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macao through
    the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would
    face additional competition, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

We hold one of two licenses granted by the Singapore government
    to develop an integrated resort, including a casino. The
    Singapore government has said that it will not license another
    casino for at least ten years. If the Singapore government were
    to license additional casinos before then, we would face
    additional competition which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

We may
    not be able to attract and retain professional staff necessary
    for our existing and future properties in Macao and our
    operations in Singapore.

Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract,
    retain, train, manage and motivate skilled employees. In
    addition, the Macao government requires us to only hire Macao
    residents as dealers in our casinos. There is significant
    competition in Macao for employees with the skills required to
    perform the services we offer and competition for these
    individuals is likely to increase as we open our remaining Cotai
    Strip developments and as other competitors expand their
    operations. We expect competition in Singapore for employees
    with the skills we require as we develop and open the Marina Bay
    Sands. There can be no assurance that a sufficient number of
    skilled employees will continue to be available, or that we will
    be successful in training, retaining and motivating current or
    future employees. If we are unable to attract, retain and train
    skilled employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff
    our existing and planned casino and resort properties in Macao
    and Singapore could be impaired, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

We are
    dependent upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion
    of our gaming revenues in Macao.

Junket operators, who organize tours, or junkets, for
    high-roller customers to casinos, are responsible for a
    significant portion of our gaming revenues in Macao. With the
    rise in gaming in Macao, the competition for relationships with
    junket operators has increased. While we are undertaking
    initiatives to strengthen our relationships with our current
    junket operators, there can be no assurance that we will be able
    to maintain, or grow, our relationships with junket operators.
    If we are unable to maintain or grow our relationships with
    junket operators, our



ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered and we may
    seek alternative ways to develop relationships with high-roller
    customers, which may not be as profitable as our junket programs.

In addition, the quality of junket operators is important to our
    reputation and our ability to continue to operate in compliance
    with our gaming licenses. While we strive for excellence in our
    associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that
    the junket operators with whom we are associated will meet the
    high standards we insist upon. If a junket operator falls below
    our standards, we may suffer reputational harm, as well as
    worsening relationships with, and possibly sanctions from,
    gaming regulators with authority over our operations.

Our
    business could be adversely affected by the limitations of the
    pataca exchange markets and restrictions on the export of the
    renminbi.

Our revenues in Macao are denominated in patacas, the legal
    currency of Macao, and Hong Kong dollars. Although currently
    permitted, we cannot assure you that patacas will continue to be
    freely exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Also, because the
    currency market for patacas is relatively small and undeveloped,
    our ability to convert large amounts of patacas into
    U.S. dollars over a relatively short period may be limited.
    As a result, we may experience difficulty in converting patacas
    into U.S. dollars.

We are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in renminbi,
    the currency of China. There are currently restrictions on the
    export of the renminbi outside of mainland China, including to
    Macao. Restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the
    flow of gaming customers from China to Macao, inhibit the growth
    of gaming in Macao and negatively impact our gaming operations.

On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced
    that the renminbi will no longer be pegged to the
    U.S. dollar, but will be allowed to float in a band (and,
    to a limited extent, increase in value) against a basket of
    foreign currencies. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong
    dollar. Certain Asian countries have publicly asserted their
    desire to eliminate the peg of the Hong Kong dollar to the
    U.S. dollar. As a result, we cannot assure you that the
    Hong Kong dollar and the Macao pataca will continue to be pegged
    to the U.S. dollar or that the current peg rate for these
    currencies will remain at the same level. The floating of the
    renminbi and possible changes to the peg of the Hong Kong dollar
    may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these
    currencies. Any change in such exchange rates could have a
    material adverse effect on our operations and on our ability to
    make payments on certain of our debt instruments. We do not
    currently hedge for foreign currency risk.

Certain
    Nevada gaming laws apply to our planned gaming activities and
    associations in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to
    operate.

Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to our gaming activities
    and associations in jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada.
    We are required to comply with certain reporting requirements
    concerning our proposed gaming activities and associations
    occurring outside the State of Nevada, including Macao and other
    jurisdictions. We will also be subject to disciplinary action by
    the Nevada Commission if we:

•

knowingly violate any laws of the foreign jurisdiction
    pertaining to the foreign gaming operation;

•

fail to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with
    the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming
    operations;

•

engage in any activity or enter into any association that is
    unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the
    control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect
    discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in
    Nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of Nevada;

•

engage in any activity or enter into any association that
    interferes with the ability of the State of Nevada to collect
    gaming taxes and fees; or

•

employ, contract with or associate with any person in the
    foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a
    finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal
    unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at
    gambling.



In addition, if the Nevada Board determines that one of our
    actual or intended activities or associations in a foreign
    gaming operation may violate one or more of the foregoing, we
    can be required by it to file an application with the Nevada
    Commission for a finding of suitability of such activity or
    association. If the Nevada Commission finds that the activity or
    association in the foreign gaming operation is unsuitable or
    prohibited, we will either be required to terminate the activity
    or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the
    activity or association. Consequently, should the Nevada
    Commission find that our gaming activities or associations in
    Macao or certain other jurisdictions where we operate are
    unsuitable, we may be prohibited from undertaking our planned
    gaming activities or associations in those jurisdictions.

The Macao gaming authorities exercise similar powers for
    purposes of assessing suitability in relation to our activities
    in jurisdictions outside of Macao.

We may
    not be able to monetize some of our real estate
    assets.

Part of our business strategy in Macao relies upon our ability
    to profitably operate

and/or

sell
    certain of our real estate assets once developed, including
    retail malls and vacation suites, and to use the proceeds of
    these operations and sales to refinance, or repay in part our
    construction loans for these assets, as well as to provide
    investment capital for additional development both in Macao and
    elsewhere. Our ability to sell these assets will be subject to
    market conditions, applicable legislation, the receipt of
    necessary government approvals and other factors. If we are
    unable to profitably operate

and/or

monetize these real estate assets, we will have to seek
    alternative sources of capital to refinance in part our
    construction loans and for other investment capital. These
    alternative sources of capital may not be available on
    commercially reasonable terms or at all.

VML
    may have financial and other obligations to foreign workers
    managed by its contractors under government labor
    quotas.

The Macao government has granted VML a quota to permit it to
    hire foreign workers. VML has effectively assigned the
    management of this quota to its contractors for the construction
    of The Venetian Macao and other projects on the Cotai Strip.
    VML, however, remains ultimately liable for all employer
    obligations relating to these employees, including for payment
    of wages and taxes and compliance with labor and workers’
    compensation laws. VML requires each contractor to whom it has
    assigned the management of part of its labor quota to indemnify
    VML for any costs or liabilities VML incurs as a result of such
    contractor’s failure to fulfill employer obligations.
    VML’s agreements with its contractors also contain
    provisions that permit it to retain some payments for up to one
    year after the contractors complete work on the projects. We
    cannot assure you that VML’s contractors will fulfill their
    obligations to employees hired under the labor quotas or to VML
    under the indemnification agreements, or that the amount of any
    indemnification will be sufficient to pay for any obligations
    VML may owe to employees managed by contractors under VML’s
    quotas. Until we make final payments to our contractors, we have
    offset rights to collect amounts they may owe us, including
    amounts owed under the indemnities relating to employer
    obligations. After we have made the final payments, it may be
    more difficult for us to enforce any unpaid indemnity
    obligations.

The
    transportation infrastructure in Macao may need to be expanded
    to meet increased visitation in Macao.

Macao is in the process of expanding its transportation
    infrastructure to service the increased number of visitors to
    Macao. If the planned expansions of transportation facilities to
    and from Macao are delayed or not completed, and Macao’s
    transportation infrastructure is insufficient to meet the
    demands of an increased volume of visitors to Macao, the
    desirability of Macao as a gaming and tourist destination, as
    well as the results of operations of our Macao properties, could
    be negatively impacted.

We
    operate a passenger ferry service between Macao and Hong Kong
    under a concession granted by the Macao government. The loss of
    the ferry concession could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

We operate a passenger ferry service between the Cotai Strip in
    Macao and Hong Kong under a concession granted by the Macao
    government. Another transportation company claims that the grant
    of the ferry service was



improper and has sued the Macao government seeking a review of
    the government’s decision. Our inability to operate our
    ferry service could result in a significant loss of visitors to
    our Cotai Strip properties, including The Venetian Macao, and
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

We are
    currently not required to pay corporate income taxes on our
    casino gaming operations in Macao. This tax exemption expires at
    the end of 2008.

We have had the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in Macao,
    which exempts us from paying corporate income tax on profits
    generated by the operation of casino games. We will continue to
    benefit from this tax exemption through the end of 2008. We plan
    to file a request for an extension with the Macao government. We
    cannot assure you that this tax exemption will be extended
    beyond the expiration date and we do not expect this tax
    exemption to apply to our non-gaming activities.

Macao
    is susceptible to severe typhoons that may disrupt
    operations.

Macao is susceptible to severe typhoons. Macao consists of a
    peninsula and two islands off the coast of mainland China. On
    some occasions, typhoons have caused a considerable amount of
    damage to Macao’s infrastructure and economy. In the event
    of a major typhoon or other natural disaster in Macao, our
    business may be severely disrupted and our results of operations
    could be adversely affected. Although we have insurance coverage
    with respect to these events, we cannot assure you that our
    coverage will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against all
    direct and indirect costs, including loss of business, that
    could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete
    destruction of, our Macao properties or other damage to the
    infrastructure or economy of Macao.

Our
    Singapore concession can be terminated under certain
    circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The Development Agreement between MBS and the STB contains
    events of default which could permit the STB to terminate the
    agreement without compensation to us. If the Development
    Agreement is terminated, we could lose our right to open and
    operate the Marina Bay Sands and our investment in Marina Bay
    Sands could be lost.

ITEM 1B. —

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. —

PROPERTIES

We own an approximately

63-acre

parcel of land on which The Venetian, The Palazzo and The Sands
    Expo Center sit and an approximately

19-acre

parcel of land located to the east of the

60-acre

parcel. We own these parcels of land in fee simple, subject to
    certain easements, encroachments and other non-monetary
    encumbrances. Las Vegas Sands, LLC’s new senior secured
    credit facility is, subject to certain exceptions,
    collateralized by a first priority security interest (subject to
    permitted liens) in substantially all of Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC’s property.

We have received concessions from the Macao government to build
    on a

six-acre

land site for the Sands Macao and parcels 1, 2 and 3 on the
    Cotai Strip, including the site on which we own and operate The
    Venetian Macao (parcel 1) and the site on which we are
    building The Four Seasons Macao (parcel 2). We do not own these
    land sites in Macao; however, the land concessions grant us
    exclusive use of the land. As specified in the land concessions,
    we are required to pay premiums, which are payable over four
    years or are due upon the completion of the corresponding
    resort, as well as annual rent for the term of the land
    concession, which may be revised every five years by the Macao
    government. See “Item 8 — Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements —
    Note 6 — Leasehold Interests in Land, Net”
    for more information on our payment obligation under these land
    concessions.



We do not yet have all the necessary Macao government approvals
    that we will need in order to develop our remaining Cotai Strip
    developments. Although, we have commenced construction or
    pre-construction for our projects on parcels 5, 6, 7 and 8 on
    the Cotai Strip, we have not yet obtained a land concession for
    these parcels from the Macao government, which holds title to
    the land. Land concessions in Macao generally have terms of
    25 years, with automatic extensions at our option of
    10 years thereafter and there are common rates based on
    land use generally used to determine the cost of these land
    concessions. We are currently in the process of negotiating with
    the Macao government to obtain the land concession, which will
    require us to pay certain premiums and rent, for parcels 5 and
    6, and we will subsequently negotiate the land concession for
    parcels 7 and 8. We believe we will be successful in obtaining
    the land concessions; however, in the event we are unable to
    obtain concessions for the land underlying parcels 5, 6, 7

and/or

8, we
    could lose all or a substantial part of our $623.0 million
    in capitalized construction costs related to these developments
    as of December 31, 2007.

Under the Development Agreement with the STB to build and
    operate the Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, we paid SGD
    1.2 billion (approximately $830.0 million at exchange
    rates in effect on December 31, 2007) in premium
    payments for the

60-year

lease of the land on which the resort will be built plus an
    additional SGD 105.6 million (approximately
    $73.0 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2007) for various taxes and other fees.
    Of this combined amount, $854.4 million has been
    capitalized on the balance sheet as leasehold interest in land
    with $19.4 million amortized as of December 31, 2007.

The Sands Bethworks development will be located on the
    approximately

124-acre

site of the Historic Bethlehem Steel Works in Bethlehem,
    Pennsylvania, which is about 70 miles from midtown
    Manhattan, New York. The property will be owned by the Company
    through its joint venture with Bethworks Now, LLC, which has yet
    to contribute the land in the joint venture. We expect the
    contribution to take place in 2008; however, no assurances can
    be given as to the timing of the contribution. If the land is
    not contributed as required under the agreement between the
    Company and Bethworks Now, LLC, we could lose all or a
    substantial part of our $116.9 million investment in Sands
    Bethworks as of December 31, 2007.

In 2004, we entered into a long-term lease with a third party
    for airspace over which part of The Shoppes at The Palazzo was
    constructed. We acquired fee title to the airspace in order to
    build the proposed Las Vegas condominium tower in January 2008.

ITEM 3. —

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In addition to the matters described below, we are party to
    various legal matters and claims arising in the ordinary course
    of business. Management has made certain estimates for potential
    litigation costs based upon consultation with legal counsel.
    Actual results could differ from these estimates; however, in
    the opinion of management, such litigation and claims will not
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

The
    Palazzo Construction Litigation

Lido Casino Resort, LLC (“Lido”), formerly a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and now merged into
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (“VCR”), and its
    construction manager, Taylor International Corp.
    (“Taylor”), filed suit in March 2006 in the United
    States District Court for the District of Nevada (the
    “District Court”) against Malcolm Drilling Company,
    Inc. (“Malcolm”), the contractor on The Palazzo
    project responsible for completing certain foundation work (the
    “District Court Case”). Lido and Taylor claim in the
    District Court Case that Malcolm was in default of its contract
    for performing defective work, failing to correct defective
    work, failing to complete its work and causing delay to the
    project. Malcolm responded by filing a Notice of a Lien with the
    Clerk of Clark County, Nevada in March 2006 in the amount of
    approximately $19.0 million (the “Lien”). In
    April 2006, Lido and Taylor moved in the District Court Case to
    strike or, in the alternative, to reduce the amount of, the
    Lien, claiming, among other things, that the Lien was excessive
    for including claims for disruption and delay, which Lido and
    Taylor claim are not lienable under Nevada law (the “Lien
    Motion”). Malcolm responded in April 2006 by filing a
    complaint against Lido and Taylor in District Court of Clark
    County, Nevada seeking to foreclose on the Lien against Taylor,
    claiming breach of contract, a cardinal change in the underlying
    contract, unjust enrichment against Lido and Taylor and bad
    faith and fraud against Taylor (the “State Court
    Case”), and simultaneously filed a motion



in the District Court Case, seeking to dismiss the District
    Court Case on abstention grounds (the “Abstention
    Motion”). In response, in June 2006, Lido filed a motion to
    dismiss the State Court Case based on the principle of the
    “prior pending” District Court Case (the “Motion
    to Dismiss”). In June 2006, the Abstention Motion was
    granted in part by the United States District Court, the
    District Court Case was stayed pending the outcome of the Motion
    to Dismiss in the State Court Case and the Lien Motion was
    denied without prejudice. In January 2008, the parties agreed to
    the dismissal of the District Court Case without prejudice.
    Prior to agreeing on that dismissal, Lido and Malcolm entered
    into a stipulation under which Lido withdrew the Motion to
    Dismiss, and in July 2006 filed a replacement lien motion in the
    State Court Case. The lien motion in the State Court Case was
    denied in August 2006 and Lido and Taylor filed a permitted
    interlocutory notice of appeal to the Supreme Court of Nevada in
    September 2006. In April 2007, Malcolm filed an Amended Notice
    of Lien with the Clerk of Clark County, Nevada in the amount of
    approximately $16.7 million plus interest, costs and
    attorney’s fees. In August 2007, Malcolm filed a motion for
    partial summary judgment, seeking the dismissal of the
    counterclaim filed in the State Court Case by Lido to the extent
    the claim sought lost profits. After argument, the motion for
    partial summary judgment was denied without prejudice on
    October 23, 2007 and a conforming order was entered in
    December 2007. The parties have agreed to complete limited
    additional discovery by the end of February 2008. Argument on
    the appeal of the denial of the lien motion in the State Court
    has been scheduled by the Supreme Court for March 2008 and an
    initial trial call of the State Court Case also has been
    scheduled for March 2008. In January 2008, Malcolm filed a
    series of three motions and again sought summary judgment on the
    counterclaim filed in the State Court Case. Based upon the
    advice of legal counsel, management has determined that based on
    proceedings to date, an adverse outcome is not probable. Lido
    intends to defend itself against the claims pending in the State
    Court Case.

Litigation
    Relating to Macao Operations

On October 15, 2004, Richard Suen and Round Square Company
    Limited filed an action against Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (“LVSC”), Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Sheldon G. Adelson
    and William P. Weidner in the District Court of Clark County,
    Nevada, asserting a breach of an alleged agreement to pay a
    success fee of $5.0 million and 2.0% of the net profit from
    the Company’s Macao resort operations to the plaintiffs as
    well as other related claims. In March 2005, LVSC was dismissed
    as a party without prejudice based on a stipulation to do so
    between the parties. On May 17, 2005, the plaintiffs filed
    their first amended complaint. On February 2, 2006,
    defendants filed a motion for partial summary judgment with
    respect to plaintiffs’ fraud claims against all the
    defendants. On March 16, 2006, an order was filed by the
    court granting defendants’ motion for partial summary
    judgment. Pursuant to the order filed March 16, 2006,
    plaintiffs’ fraud claims set forth in the first amended
    complaint were dismissed with prejudice as against all
    defendants. The order also dismissed with prejudice the first
    amended complaint against defendants Sheldon G. Adelson and
    William P. Weidner. This action is currently set for trial in
    April 2008. Based upon the advice of legal counsel, management
    believes that the plaintiff’s case against the Company is
    without merit. The Company intends to defend this matter
    vigorously.

On January 26, 2006, Clive Basset Jones, Darryl Steven
    Turok (a/k/a Dax Turok) and Cheong Jose Vai Chi

(a/k/a

Cliff
    Cheong), filed an action against LVSC, Las Vegas Sands, LLC,
    Venetian Venture Development, LLC and various unspecified
    individuals and companies in the District Court of Clark County,
    Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of an agreement to pay a
    success fee in an amount equal to 5% of the ownership interest
    in the entity that owns and operates the Macao gaming
    subconcession as well as other related claims. In April 2006,
    LVSC was dismissed as a party without prejudice based on a
    stipulation to do so between the parties. Discovery has begun in
    this matter and the case is currently set for trial in December
    2008. Based upon the advice of legal counsel, management
    believes that the plaintiff’s case against the Company is
    without merit. The Company intends to defend this matter
    vigorously.

On February 5, 2007, Asian American Entertainment
    Corporation, Limited (“AAEC”) filed an action against
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (“LVSI”), VCR, Venetian Venture
    Development, LLC (“Venetian Venture Development”),
    William P. Weidner and David Friedman in the United States
    District Court for the District of Nevada. The plaintiffs assert
    breach of contract by LVSI, VCR and Venetian Venture Development
    of an agreement under which AAEC would work to obtain a gaming
    license in Macao and, if successful, AAEC would jointly operate
    a casino, hotel and related facilities in Macao with Venetian
    Venture Development and Venetian Venture Development would
    receive fees and a minority equity interest in the venture and
    breach of fiduciary duties by all of the defendants. The



plaintiffs have requested an unspecified amount of actual,
    compensatory and punitive damages, and disgorgement of profits
    related to our Macao gaming license. The Company filed a motion
    to dismiss on July 11, 2007. On August 1, 2007, the
    Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint
    against all defendants without prejudice. The plaintiffs have
    appealed this decision. Based upon the advice of legal counsel,
    management believes that the plaintiff’s case against the
    Company is without merit. The Company intends to defend this
    matter vigorously.

ITEM 4. —

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
    HOLDERS

None.



PART II

ITEM 5. —

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
    STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
    SECURITIES

Market
    Information

The Company’s common stock trades on the NYSE under the
    symbol “LVS.” The following table sets forth the high
    and low sales prices for the common stock on the NYSE for the
    fiscal quarter indicated.

High

Low


First Quarter

$

58.03

$

38.44

Second Quarter

$

78.90

$

54.68

Third Quarter

$

77.86

$

57.68

Fourth Quarter

$

97.25

$

66.06


First Quarter

$

109.45

$

81.00

Second Quarter

$

91.93

$

71.24

Third Quarter

$

142.75

$

75.56

Fourth Quarter

$

148.76

$

102.50


First Quarter (through February 21, 2008)

$

105.38

$

70.70

As of February 21, 2008, there were 355,352,992 shares
    of our common stock issued and outstanding that were held by 259
    stockholders of record.

Dividends

We have not declared or paid any dividends since our formation
    in August 2004. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common
    stock in the future. We expect to retain our future earnings, if
    any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Our
    board of directors will determine whether to pay dividends in
    the future based on conditions then existing, including our
    earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, as well
    as economic and other conditions our board may deem relevant.

Our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock is
    subject to the requirements of Nevada law. In addition, we are a
    parent company with limited business operations of our own.
    Accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and
    distributions with respect to our ownership interest in our
    subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow
    generated by our operating properties.

Our subsidiaries’ long-term debt arrangements place
    material restrictions on their ability to pay cash dividends to
    the Company. This will restrict our ability to pay cash
    dividends other than from cash on hand. See
    “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Restrictions on Distributions” and
    “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt.”

Recent
    Sales of Unregistered Securities

There have not been any sales by the Company of equity
    securities in the last fiscal year that have not been registered
    under the Securities Act of 1933.



Performance
    Graph

The following performance graph compares the performance of our
    common stock with the performance of the Standard &
    Poor’s 500 Index and a peer group of companies, during the
    period from the Company’s initial public offering on
    December 15, 2004 through December 31, 2007. The
    selected peer group for 2005, 2006 and 2007 is comprised of
    three gaming companies considered to be the Company’s
    closest competitors: Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc., MGM
    MIRAGE and Wynn Resorts Limited. The selected peer group for
    2004 included these three companies, as well as Caesars
    Entertainment, Inc. and Mandalay Resort Group. In 2005, Caesars
    Entertainment, Inc. was acquired by Harrah’s Entertainment,
    Inc. and Mandalay Resort Group was acquired by MGM MIRAGE. The
    graph plots the changes in value of an initial $100 investment
    over the indicated time period, assuming all dividends are
    reinvested.

Cumulative Total Return

12/15/04

12/31/04

12/31/05

12/31/06

12/31/07

Las Vegas Sands Corp

$

100.00

$

103.09

$

84.77

$

192.18

$

221.33

S&P 500

$

100.00

$

103.40

$

108.48

$

125.62

$

132.52

Peer Group

$

100.00

$

104.38

$

102.83

$

148.30

$

193.98

The performance graph should not be deemed filed or incorporated
    by reference into any other Company filing under the Securities
    Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent
    the Company specifically incorporates the performance graph by
    reference therein.

ITEM 6. —

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following reflects selected historical financial data that
    should be read in conjunction with “Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” and the consolidated



financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in
    this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the
    results of operations to be expected in the future.

Year Ended December 31,


(1)




(2)


(In thousands, except per share data)

STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DATA

Gross revenues

$

3,104,422

$

2,340,178

$

1,824,225

$

1,258,570

$

736,610

Promotional allowances

(153,855

)

(103,319

)

(83,313

)

(61,514

)

(44,856

)

Net revenues

2,950,567

2,236,859

1,740,912

1,197,056

691,754

Operating expenses

2,620,557

1,662,762

1,251,461

578,588

505,628

Operating income

330,010

574,097

489,451

618,468

186,126

Interest expense, net

(172,344

)

(69,662

)

(63,181

)

(130,337

)

(120,317

)

Other income (expense)

(8,682

)

(189

)

(1,334

)

(131

)


Loss on early retirement of debt

(10,705

)

—

(137,000

)

(6,553

)

—

Income before income taxes

138,279

504,246

287,936

481,447

66,634

Benefit (provision) for income
    taxes

(3)

(21,591

)

(62,243

)

(4,250

)

13,736

—

Net income

$

116,688

$

442,003

$

283,686

$

495,183

$

66,634

Per Share
    Data

(4)

Basic earnings per share

$

0.33

$

1.25

$

0.80

$

1.52

$

0.21

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.33

$

1.24

$

0.80

$

1.52

$

0.20

Dividends declared per share

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

0.44

$

0.01

OTHER DATA

Capital expenditures

$

3,793,703

$

1,925,291

$

860,621

$

465,748

$

279,948

At December 31,






(In thousands)

BALANCE SHEET DATA

Total assets

$

11,466,517

$

7,126,458

$

3,879,739

$

3,601,478

$

1,917,035

Long-term debt

$

7,517,997

$

4,136,152

$

1,625,901

$

1,485,064

$

1,525,116

Stockholders’ equity

$

2,260,274

$

2,075,154

$

1,609,538

$

1,316,001

$

162,108



ITEM 7. —

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
    CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and
    is qualified in its entirety by, the audited consolidated
    financial statements, and the notes thereto and other financial
    information included in this

Form 10-K.

Certain statements in this “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” are forward-looking statements. See
    “— Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
    Statements.”

Operations

We own and operate integrated resorts in Las Vegas and Macao,
    and have current on-going development projects in Macao on the
    Cotai Strip, and in Singapore and Pennsylvania.

The Palazzo, which partially opened in December 2007, had an
    inconsequential impact on our Las Vegas operations.
    Approximately 61.9% of gross revenue at The Venetian, The Sands
    Expo Center and The Congress Center for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, was derived from hotel rooms, food and
    beverage, and other non-gaming sources and 38.1% was derived
    from gaming. The percentage of non-gaming revenue for The
    Venetian reflects the integrated resort’s emphasis on the
    group convention and trade show business and the resulting
    higher occupancy and room rates during mid-week periods.

Our Macao operations consist of the Sands Macao, The Venetian
    Macao, which opened in August 2007, and other ancillary
    operations that support these properties and will support our
    on-going development projects on the Cotai Strip as well.
    Approximately 94.8% of the Sands Macao’s gross revenue for
    the year ended December 31, 2007, was derived from gaming
    activities, with the remainder primarily derived from food and
    beverage services. Approximately 81.4% of The Venetian
    Macao’s gross revenue for the period ended
    December 31, 2007, was derived from gaming activities, with
    the remainder derived from room revenues, food and beverage
    services, and other non-gaming sources.

United
    States Development Projects

Las
    Vegas Condominiums

We are in the early stages of constructing a high-rise
    residential condominium tower with approximately
    1.0 million saleable square feet that will be situated
    between The Palazzo and The Venetian. The condominium tower is
    currently expected to open in late 2009 and will be built at an
    estimated cost of approximately $600.0 million.

Sands
    Bethworks

We are in the process of developing a gaming, hotel, shopping
    and dining complex called Sands Bethworks located on the site of
    the Historic Bethlehem Steel Works in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,
    which is about 70 miles from midtown Manhattan, New York.
    Sands Bethworks is currently expected to open in summer 2009 and
    will be built at an estimated cost of approximately
    $600.0 million.

Macao
    Development Projects

We have submitted development plans to the Macao government for
    six integrated resort developments, in addition to The Venetian
    Macao, on an area of approximately 200 acres located on the
    Cotai Strip. The developments are expected to include hotels,
    exhibition and conference facilities, casinos, showrooms,
    shopping malls, spas, restaurants, entertainment facilities and
    other attractions and amenities, as well as public common areas.
    Upon completion, our developments on the Cotai Strip (including
    The Venetian Macao) are currently planned to feature
    approximately 19,750 suites/rooms and 1.6 million square
    feet of gaming space with a capacity of approximately 3,300
    table games and 16,470 slot machines.



Singapore
    Development Project

In August 2006, MBS entered into the Development Agreement with
    the STB to build and operate an integrated resort called the
    Marina Bay Sands in Singapore. Although construction has started
    on the Marina Bay Sands, we are continuing to work with the
    Singapore government to finalize various aspects of the
    integrated resort and are in the process of revising our cost
    estimates for the project. We expect the cost to develop and
    construct the Marina Bay Sands will be in excess of
    $4.0 billion, inclusive of payment made in 2006 for the
    land premium, taxes and other fees. The Marina Bay Sands is
    expected to open in late 2009.

Other
    Development Projects

We are currently exploring the possibility of developing and
    operating integrated resorts in additional Asian and
    U.S. jurisdictions, and in Europe.

Summary
    Financial Results

The following table summarizes our results of operations:

Year Ended December 31,

Percent

Percent


Change


Change


(In thousands, except for percentages)

Net revenues

$

2,950,567

31.9

%

$

2,236,859

28.5

%

$

1,740,912

Operating expenses

2,620,557

57.6

%

1,662,762

32.9

%

1,251,461

Operating income

330,010

(42.5

)%

574,097

17.3

%

489,451

Income before income taxes

138,279

(72.6

)%

504,246

75.1

%

287,936

Net income

116,688

(73.6

)%

442,003

55.8

%

283,686

Percent of Net Revenues Year Ended December 31,




Operating expenses

88.8%

74.3%

71.9%

Operating income

11.2%

25.7%

28.1%

Income before income taxes

4.7%

22.5%

16.5%

Net income

4.0%

19.8%

16.3%

As a growth company with a significant development pipeline, our
    historical financial results will not be indicative of our
    future results as we continue to open new properties, including
    our remaining Cotai Strip developments and Marina Bay Sands.

Key
    Operating Revenue Measurements

Operating revenues at our Las Vegas properties and The Venetian
    Macao are dependent upon the volume of customers who stay at the
    hotel, which affects the price that can be charged for hotel
    rooms and the volume of table games and slot machine play. Hotel
    revenues are not material for the Sands Macao as its revenues
    are principally driven by casino customers that visit the casino
    on a daily basis. Visitors to our Macao properties arrive by
    ferry, automobile, bus, airplane or helicopter from Hong Kong,
    cities in China, and other Southeast Asian cities in close
    proximity to Macao and elsewhere.

The following are the key measurements we use to evaluate
    operating revenue:

Casino revenue measurements for Las
    Vegas:

Table games drop and slot handle are
    volume measurements. Win or hold percentage represents the
    percentage of drop or handle that is won by the casino and
    recorded as casino revenue. Table games drop represents the sum
    of markers issued (credit instruments) less markers paid at the
    table, plus cash deposited in the table drop box. Slot handle is
    the gross amount wagered or coin placed into slot machines in
    aggregate for the period cited. Drop and handle are
    abbreviations for table games drop and slot handle. Based upon
    our mix of table games, our table games produce a statistical
    average win percentage (calculated before



discounts) as measured as a percentage of table game drop of
    20.0% to 22.0% and slot machines produce a statistical average
    win percentage (calculated before slot club cash incentives) as
    measured as a percentage of slot machine handle generally
    between 6.0% and 7.0%.

Casino revenue measurements for Macao:

Macao
    table games are segregated into two groups, consistent with the
    Macao market’s convention: Rolling Chip play (all VIP play)
    and Non-Rolling Chip play (mostly non-VIP players). The volume
    measurement for Rolling Chip play is non-negotiable gaming chips
    wagered. The volume measurement for Non-Rolling Chip play is
    table games drop as described above. Rolling Chip volume and
    Non-Rolling Chip volume are not equivalent as Rolling Chip
    volume is a measure of amounts wagered versus dropped. Rolling
    Chip volume is substantially higher than table games drop. Slot
    handle is the gross amount wagered or coins placed into slot
    machines in aggregate for the period cited.

We view Rolling Chip table games win as a percentage of Rolling
    Chip volume and Non-Rolling Chip table games win as a percentage
    of drop. Win or hold percentage represents the percentage of
    Rolling Chip volume, Non-Rolling Chip drop or slot handle that
    is won by the casino and recorded as casino revenue. Based upon
    our mix of table games in Macao, our Rolling Chip table games
    win percentage (calculated before discounts and commissions) as
    measured as a percentage of Rolling Chip volume is expected to
    be 3.0% and our Non-Rolling Chip table games are expected to
    produce a statistical average win percentage as measured as a
    percentage of table game drop of 18.0% to 20.0%. Similar to Las
    Vegas, our Macao slot machines produce a statistical average win
    percentage as measured as a percentage of slot machine handle of
    generally between 6.0% and 7.0%.

Actual win may vary from the statistical average. Generally,
    slot machine play is conducted on a cash basis. Credit-based
    wagering for our Las Vegas properties was approximately 62.6% of
    table games revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007.
    Table games play at our Macao properties are conducted primarily
    on a cash basis with only 19.4% credit-based wagering for the
    year ended December 31, 2007.

Hotel revenue measurements:

Hotel occupancy
    rate, which is the average percentage of available hotel rooms
    occupied during a period, and average daily room rate, which is
    the average price of occupied rooms per day, are used as
    performance indicators. Revenue per available room represents a
    summary of hotel average daily room rates and occupancy. Because
    not all available rooms are occupied, average daily room rates
    are normally higher than revenue per available room. Reserved
    rooms where the guests do not show up for their stay and lose
    their deposit may be re-sold to walk-in guests. These rooms are
    considered to be occupied twice for statistical purposes due to
    obtaining the original deposit and the walk-in guest revenue. In
    cases where a significant number of rooms are resold, occupancy
    rates may be in excess of 100% and revenue per available room
    may be higher than the average daily room rate.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2007 compared to the Year Ended
    December 31, 2006

Operating
    Revenues

Our net revenues consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands, except for percentages)

Casino

$

2,250,421

$

1,676,061

34.3

%

Rooms

437,357

350,606

24.7

%

Food and beverage

238,252

187,819

26.9

%

Convention, retail and other

178,392

125,692

41.9

%

3,104,422

2,340,178

32.7

%

Less — promotional allowances

(153,855

)

(103,319

)

48.9

%

Total net revenues

$

2,950,567

$

2,236,859

31.9

%



Consolidated net revenues were $2.95 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2007, an increase of $713.7 million
    compared to $2.24 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase in net revenues was due
    primarily to the opening of The Venetian Macao in August 2007.

Casino revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    increased $574.4 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Of the increase, $549.3 million was
    attributable to the opening of The Venetian Macao in August 2007
    and $32.6 million was attributable to the growth of our
    casino operations at the Sands Macao, offset by a slight
    decrease at The Venetian of $6.8 million, attributable to a
    decrease in win percentage as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The following table summarizes the
    results of our casino revenue activity:

Year Ended December 31,



Change

(In thousands, except for percentages)

Sands Macao

Total casino revenues

$

1,296,869

$

1,264,290

2.6

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games drop

$

3,525,609

$

4,178,655

(15.6

)%

Non-Rolling Chip table games win percentage

18.7

%

18.6

%

0.1

pts

Rolling Chip volume

$

26,325,271

$

17,114,962

53.8

%

Rolling Chip win percentage

2.97

%

3.18

%

(0.21

)pts

Slot handle

$

1,181,050

$

1,048,795

12.6

%

Slot hold percentage

6.9

%

7.7

%

(0.8

)pts

The Venetian Macao

Total casino revenues

$

549,298

$

—

—

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games drop

$

1,115,812

$

—

—

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games win percentage

17.3

%

—

%

—

pts

Rolling Chip volume

$

17,071,475

$

—

—

%

Rolling Chip win percentage

2.64

%

—

%

—

pts

Slot handle

$

490,068

$

—

—

%

Slot hold percentage

7.9

%

—

%

—

pts

The Venetian

Total casino revenues

$

405,014

$

411,771

(1.6

)%

Table games drop

$

1,353,683

$

1,266,931

6.8

%

Table games win percentage

22.3

%

26.0

%

(3.7

)pts

Slot handle

$

2,483,531

$

2,136,267

16.3

%

Slot hold percentage

6.0

%

6.5

%

(0.5

)pts

In our experience, average win percentages remain steady when
    measured over extended periods of time but can vary considerably
    within shorter time periods as a result of the statistical
    variances that are associated with games of chance in which
    large amounts are wagered. The table above excludes The Palazzo
    for 2007 as the two days of operations are not material or
    indicative of future results.

Room revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    increased $86.8 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily attributable
    to $63.4 million from The Venetian Macao as well as an
    increase in the average daily room rate at The Venetian. The
    Palazzo suites were not open to the public until



January 2008. The suites at Sands Macao are primarily provided
    to casino patrons on a complimentary basis and therefore have
    not been included in the following table, which summarizes the
    results of our room revenue activity.

Period Ended December 31,



Change

The Venetian

Average daily room rate

$


$


7.9

%

Occupancy rate

98.4

%

98.7

%

(0.3

)pts

Revenue per available room

$


$


7.6

%

The Venetian Macao

Average daily room rate

$


$

—

—

%

Occupancy rate

85.7

%

—

%

—

pts

Revenue per available room

$


$

—

—

%

Food and beverage revenues for the year ended December 31,
    2007, increased $50.4 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily attributable
    to $21.2 million from The Venetian Macao and increases of
    $11.4 million at the Sands Macao due to the increased
    number of visitors and $8.0 million at The Venetian from
    two of our joint venture restaurants which opened during summer
    2007.

Convention, retail and other revenues for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, increased $52.7 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase was
    primarily attributable to $41.3 million of revenues from
    The Venetian Macao, consisting principally of rental revenues
    from the mall, and approximately $9.6 million of other
    revenue related to large group room cancellations at The
    Venetian.

Operating
    Expenses

The breakdown of operating expenses is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands, except for percentages)

Casino

$

1,435,662

$

925,033

55.2

%

Rooms

94,219

85,651

10.0

%

Food and beverage

118,273

89,113

32.7

%

Convention, retail and other

97,689

64,315

51.9

%

Provision for doubtful accounts

26,369

18,067

46.0

%

General and administrative

319,357

230,355

38.6

%

Corporate expense

94,514

59,570

58.7

%

Rental expense

31,787

13,478

135.8

%

Pre-opening expense

189,280

37,673

402.4

%

Development expense

9,728

26,112

(62.7

)%

Depreciation and amortization

202,557

110,771

82.9

%

Loss on disposal of assets

1,122

2,624

(57.2

)%

Total operating expenses

$

2,620,557

$

1,662,762

57.6

%

Operating expenses were $2.62 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, an increase of $957.8 million as
    compared to $1.66 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase in operating expenses was
    primarily attributable to the higher operating revenues, growth
    of our operating businesses in Macao and to a lesser extent in
    Las Vegas, and pre-opening activities as more fully described
    below.

Casino expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    increased $510.6 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Of the $510.6 million increase,
    $322.1 million was due to the 39.0% gross win tax on higher
    casino revenues from our properties in Macao. An additional
    $109.6 million in casino-related expenses



(exclusive of the aforementioned 39.0% gross win tax) were
    attributable to The Venetian Macao. The remaining increase was
    primarily attributable to additional payroll-related expenses
    and our Rolling Chip program at Sands Macao.

Rooms expense increased $8.6 million, food and beverage
    expense increased $29.2 million and convention, retail and
    other expense increased $33.4 million. These increases were
    primarily due to the associated increase in the respective
    revenue categories as noted above.

The provision for doubtful accounts was $26.4 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to
    $18.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006,
    due primarily to a $10.6 million provision for one customer
    in the beginning of 2007. The amount of this provision can vary
    over short periods of time because of factors specific to the
    customers who owe us money from gaming activities at any given
    time. We believe that the amount of our provision for doubtful
    accounts in the future will depend upon the state of the
    economy, our credit standards, our risk assessments and the
    judgment of our employees responsible for granting credit.

General and administrative expenses for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, increased $89.0 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase was
    attributable to the growth of our operating businesses in Las
    Vegas and Macao, with $69.5 million of the increase being
    incurred at The Venetian Macao and $6.9 million being
    incurred in Las Vegas and at Sands Macao related to stock-based
    compensation expense.

Corporate expense for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    increased $34.9 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase was attributable to
    increases of $16.2 million in legal and professional fees,
    $5.2 million in payroll-related expenses, $4.5 million
    in travel-related expenses and $9.0 million of other
    corporate general and administrative costs as we continue to
    build our corporate infrastructure to support our current and
    planned growth.

Rental expense for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    increased $18.3 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The increase is primarily attributable
    to a full year of amortization of Singapore’s leasehold
    interest in land, which we entered into in August 2006, and
    amortization of the leasehold interest in land for parcels 1, 2
    and 3 on the Cotai Strip, which we entered into in February 2007.

Pre-opening and development expenses were $189.3 million
    and $9.7 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, as compared to $37.7 million and
    $26.1 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Pre-opening expense represents personnel
    and other costs incurred prior to the opening of new ventures,
    which are expensed as incurred. Pre-opening expenses for the
    year ended December 31, 2007, were primarily related to the
    opening of The Venetian Macao and The Palazzo, and activities at
    our other Cotai Strip, Marina Bay Sands and Sands Bethworks
    projects. Development expenses include the costs associated with
    the Company’s evaluation and pursuit of new business
    opportunities, which are also expensed as incurred. Development
    expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007, were
    primarily related to our activities in Hengqin Island, Asia,
    Europe and the U.S. We expect that pre-opening and
    development expenses will decrease due to the opening of The
    Venetian Macao and The Palazzo during 2007.

Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, increased $91.8 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase was
    primarily the result of The Venetian Macao (totaling
    $60.0 million) and a full year of depreciation expense
    related to the Sands Macao podium expansion (an increase of
    $7.0 million), which was placed into service in August
    2006. Additionally, there was $7.5 million in accelerated
    deprecation expense during the year ended December 31,
    2007, related to the replacement of assets at The Venetian in
    connection with the room renovation project.



Interest
    Expense

The following table summarizes information related to interest
    expense on long-term debt:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands, except for percentages)

Interest cost (which includes the amortization of deferred
    financing costs and original issue discounts)

$

468,056

$

230,447

Less — capitalized interest

(223,248

)

(94,594

)

Interest expense, net

$

244,808

$

135,853

Cash paid for interest

$

438,301

$

215,975

Average total debt balance

$

6,148,835

$

2,898,936

Weighted average interest rate

7.5

%

7.9

%

Interest cost increased $237.6 million as compared to the
    year ended December 31, 2006, resulting from the
    substantial increase in our average long-term debt balances, the
    proceeds from which were primarily used to fund our various
    development projects. See “— Liquidity and
    Capital Resources” for further detail of our financing
    activities. The increase in interest cost was offset by the
    capitalization of $223.2 million of interest during the
    year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to
    $94.6 million of capitalized interest during the year ended
    December 31, 2006. We expect our interest cost will
    continue to increase as our long-term debt balances increase.
    Leasehold interest in land payments made in Macao and Singapore
    are not considered qualifying assets and as such, are not
    included in the base amount used to determine capitalized
    interest.

Other
    Factors Affecting Earnings

Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2007, was
    $72.5 million, an increase of $6.3 million as compared
    to $66.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
    The increase was attributable to additional invested cash
    balances, primarily from our borrowings under the
    U.S. senior secured credit facilities and the Macao credit
    facility that have not yet been spent.

Other expense for the year ended December 31, 2007, was
    $8.7 million as compared to $0.2 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006. The $8.7 million expense
    amount was primarily attributable to foreign exchange
    translation losses associated with U.S. denominated debt
    held in Macao.

The loss on early retirement of debt of $10.7 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2007, was due to the
    refinancing of our U.S. senior secured credit facility and
    the early retirement of the construction loan related to The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo.

Our effective income tax rate for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, was 15.6%. The effective tax rate for
    the year was significantly lower than the federal statutory rate
    due primarily to a zero effective tax rate on our Macao net
    income as a result of an income tax exemption in Macao on gaming
    operations, which is set to expire at the end of 2008. Based on
    Macanese law and the treatment of other gaming operators, we
    believe the income tax exemption will be extended for an
    additional five-year term. The effective tax rate was 12.3% for
    the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to the
    application of the aforementioned Macao income tax exemption.
    The effective income tax rate for 2007 was higher than the 2006
    period due to no tax benefit being recorded on certain losses in
    some foreign jurisdictions and our geographic income mix.



Year
    Ended December 31, 2006 compared to the Year Ended
    December 31, 2005

Operating
    Revenues

Our net revenues consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands, except for percentages)

Casino

$

1,676,061

$

1,250,090

34.1

%

Rooms

350,606

323,560

8.4

%

Food and beverage

187,819

147,510

27.3

%

Convention, retail and other

125,692

103,065

22.0

%

2,340,178

1,824,225

28.3

%

Less — promotional allowances

(103,319

)

(83,313

)

24.0

%

Total net revenues

$

2,236,859

$

1,740,912

28.5

%

Consolidated net revenues were $2.24 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $495.9 million
    compared to $1.74 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2005. The increase in net revenues was due
    primarily to an increase in casino revenues of
    $426.0 million, which was primarily attributable to the
    growth of our operations at the Sands Macao.

Casino revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006,
    increased $426.0 million as compared the year ended
    December 31, 2005. Of the increase, $382.1 million was
    attributable to the growth of our casino operations at the Sands
    Macao due primarily to the formal introduction of our Rolling
    Chip program in March 2005 and casino expansion in August 2006.
    The following table summarizes the results of our casino revenue
    activity:

Year Ended December 31,



Change

(In thousands, except for percentages)

Sands Macao

Total casino revenues

$

1,264,290

$

882,175

43.3

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games drop

$

4,178,655

$

4,002,635

4.4

%

Non-Rolling Chip table games win percentage

18.6

%

16.5

%

2.1

pts

Rolling Chip volume

$

17,114,962

$

9,982,942

71.4

%

Rolling Chip win percentage

3.18

%

2.40

%

0.78

pts

Slot handle

$

1,048,795

$

720,085

45.6

%

Slot hold percentage

7.7

%

8.4

%

(0.7

)pts

The Venetian

Total casino revenues

$

411,771

$

367,915

11.9

%

Table games drop

$

1,266,931

$

1,184,468

7.0

%

Table games win percentage

26.0

%

20.0

%

6.0

pts

Slot handle

$

2,136,267

$

2,039,224

4.8

%

Slot hold percentage

6.5

%

6.3

%

0.2

pts

In our experience, average win percentages remain steady when
    measured over extended periods of time, but can vary
    considerably within shorter time periods as a result of the
    statistical variances that are associated with games of chance
    in which large amounts are wagered.



Room revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006,
    increased $27.0 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2005. The increase was attributable to the
    increase in the average daily room rate as well as a slight
    increase in the occupancy rate. The following table summarizes
    the results of our room revenue activity:

Year Ended December 31,



Change

The Venetian

Average daily room rate

$


$


6.2

%

Occupancy rate

98.7

%

97.3

%

1.4

pts

Revenue per available room

$


$


8.3

%

Food and beverage revenues were $187.8 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006, an increase of $40.3 million
    as compared to $147.5 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2005. The increase was primarily attributable
    to food and beverage revenues at The Venetian, which increased
    $32.2 million due to increased group business resulting
    primarily from approximately 450,000 square feet of
    additional meeting space at the property.

Convention, retail and other revenues for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, increased $22.6 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase is
    primarily attributable to $7.6 million of additional
    convention revenues from The Sands Expo Center and
    $10.4 million in revenues associated with the Blue Man
    Group, the Phantom of the Opera and the Gordie Brown
    performances, which began in October 2005, June 2006 and October
    2006, respectively.

Operating
    Expenses

The breakdown of operating expenses is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,



Percent Change

(In thousands, except for percentages)

Casino

$

925,033

$

656,590

40.9

%

Rooms

85,651

82,058

4.4

%

Food and beverage

89,113

76,736

16.1

%

Convention, retail and other

64,315

58,068

10.8

%

Provision for doubtful accounts

18,067

9,358

93.1

%

General and administrative

230,355

192,806

19.5

%

Corporate expense

59,570

38,297

55.5

%

Rental expense

13,478

14,841

(9.2

)%

Pre-opening expense

37,673

3,732

909.5

%

Development expense

26,112

22,238

17.4

%

Depreciation and amortization

110,771

95,296

16.2

%

Loss on disposal of assets

2,624

1,441

82.1

%

Total operating expenses

$

1,662,762

$

1,251,461

32.9

%

Operating expenses were $1.66 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, an increase of $411.3 million as
    compared to $1.25 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2005. The increase in operating expenses was
    primarily attributable to the higher operating revenues and
    growth of our operating businesses in Macao and to a lesser
    extent in Las Vegas, as more fully described below.

Casino expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006,
    increased $268.4 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2005. Of the increase in casino expenses,
    $176.1 million was due to the 39.0% gross win tax on casino
    revenues in Macao. Despite the higher gross win tax, casino
    operating margins at Sands Macao are similar to those at The
    Venetian primarily because of lower labor, marketing and sales
    expenses in Macao. As the Rolling Chip volume increases as a
    percentage of our total gaming operations, casino margins will
    decrease due to the commissions paid under the Rolling Chip
    program. The remaining increase was primarily attributable to
    the



additional payroll related expenses related to the continued
    growth of our operations at Sands Macao and the casino expansion
    in August 2006.

Food and beverage expense increased $12.4 million and
    convention, retail and other expense increased
    $6.2 million. These increases were primarily due to the
    associated increase in the respective revenue categories as
    noted above.

The provision for doubtful accounts was $18.1 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to
    $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, due
    primarily to an increase in casino and hotel receivables during
    the year. The amount of this provision can vary over short
    periods of time because of factors specific to the customers who
    owe us money from gaming activities at any given time. We
    believe that the amount of our provision for doubtful accounts
    in the future will depend upon the state of the economy, our
    credit standards, our risk assessments and the judgment of our
    employees responsible for granting credit.

General and administrative expenses for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, increased $37.5 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was
    attributable to the growth of our operating businesses in Las
    Vegas and Macao as well as $7.1 million related to
    stock-based compensation expense recorded in connection with the
    adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    (“SFAS”) No. 123R.

Corporate expense for the year ended December 31, 2006,
    increased $21.3 million as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2005. Of the increase in corporate expense,
    $19.5 million was related to payroll and other operating
    expenses as we increase our headcount in the corporate area to
    support our continued expansion activities and $5.4 million
    related to stock-based compensation recorded in connection with
    the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, partially offset by a
    $5.0 million charitable contribution that was made in 2005
    that did not recur in 2006.

Pre-opening and development expenses were $37.7 million and
    $26.1 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, compared to $3.7 million and
    $22.2 million, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2005. Pre-opening expense represents personnel
    and other costs incurred prior to the opening of new ventures,
    which are expensed as incurred. Pre-opening expenses for the
    year ended December 31, 2006, were primarily related to The
    Venetian Macao project and to the expansion of the Sands Macao.
    Development expenses include the costs associated with the
    Company’s evaluation and pursuit of new business
    opportunities, which are also expensed as incurred. Development
    expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006, were
    primarily related to our activities in Singapore, Pennsylvania
    and Europe. We expect that pre-opening and development expenses
    will continue to increase as we progress with The Venetian Macao
    and other Cotai Strip projects in Macao, The Palazzo in Las
    Vegas, Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, Hengqin Island and
    Pennsylvania, as well as our continued pursuit of development
    opportunities elsewhere.

Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, increased $15.5 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was
    primarily due to additional depreciation expense as a result of
    capital improvements at The Venetian and Sands Macao.

Interest
    Expense

The following table summarizes information related to interest
    expense on long-term debt:

Year Ended December 31,



(In thousands, except for percentages)

Interest cost (which includes the amortization of deferred

financing costs and original issue discounts)

$

230,447

$

118,992

Less — capitalized interest

(94,594

)

(22,700

)

Interest expense, net

$

135,853

$

96,292

Cash paid for interest

$

215,975

$

111,066

Average total debt balance

$

2,898,936

$

1,520,913

Weighted average interest rate

7.9

%

7.8

%



Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized, for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, increased $39.6 million as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase is
    primarily attributable to an increase in our average long-term
    debt balances resulting primarily from the completion of the
    $2.5 billion Macao credit facility, in May 2006, to support
    our development activities in Macao and the $1.53 billion
    Singapore bridge facility, in August 2006, to support the
    development of the Marina Bay Sands. We expect interest expense
    will continue to increase as our long-term debt balances and
    interest rates increase. This increase was offset by the
    capitalization of $94.6 million of interest during the year
    ended December 31, 2006, compared to $22.7 million of
    capitalized interest during the year ended December 31,
    2005. We expect capitalized interest will continue to increase
    as The Venetian Macao and The Palazzo projects approach their
    anticipated 2007 opening dates and as we increase our
    construction activities on the Cotai Strip, at Marina Bay Sands
    and Sands Bethworks.

Other
    Factors Affecting Earnings

Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2006, was
    $66.2 million, an increase of $33.1 million as
    compared to $33.1 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2005. The increase was attributable to
    additional invested cash balances, primarily from our borrowings
    under the U.S. senior secured credit facility and the Macao
    credit facility.

The loss on early retirement of debt of $137.0 million
    during the year ended December 31, 2005, was the result of
    the redemption of Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    $843.6 million in aggregate principal amount of 11%
    mortgage notes and VML’s $120.0 million in aggregate
    principal amount of senior secured notes.

Our effective income tax rate for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, was 12.3%. The effective tax rate for
    the year was significantly lower than the federal statutory rate
    due primarily to a zero effective tax rate on our Macao net
    income as a result of an income tax exemption in Macao on gaming
    operations, which is set to expire at the end of 2008. The
    effective tax rate was 1.5% for the year ended December 31,
    2005, primarily due to the tax benefit associated with the loss
    on early retirement of debt in the 2005 period, as well as the
    application of the aforementioned Macao income tax exemption.



Liquidity
    and Capital Resources

Cash
    Flows — Summary

Our cash flows consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Net cash provided by (used in) operations

$

365,457

$

(196,720

)

$

589,916

Investing cash flows:

Capital expenditures

(3,793,703

)

(1,925,291

)

(860,621

)

Change in restricted cash

556,276

(310,565

)

(265,386

)

Acquisition of gaming license included in other assets

(50,000

)

—

—

Net cash used in investing activities

(3,287,427

)

(2,235,856

)

(1,126,007

)

Financing cash flows:

Dividends paid to shareholders

—

—

(21,052

)

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

30,221

7,226


Proceeds from long term-debt

5,135,076

2,619,995

812,222

Repayments of long-term debt

(1,775,801

)

(132,746

)

(969,127

)

Other

(66,631

)

(51,493

)

(125,074

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

3,322,865

2,442,982

(302,718

)

Effect of exchange rate on cash

(11,811

)



Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

$

389,084

$

11,220

$

(838,052

)

Cash
    Flows — Operating Activities

Table games play at our Las Vegas properties is conducted on a
    cash and credit basis while table games play at our Macao
    properties is conducted primarily on a cash basis. Slot machine
    play is primarily conducted on a cash basis. The retail hotel
    rooms business is generally conducted on a cash basis, the group
    hotel rooms business is conducted on a cash and credit basis,
    and banquet business is conducted primarily on a credit basis
    resulting in operating cash flows being generally affected by
    changes in operating income and accounts receivable. Net cash
    provided by operating activities for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, was $365.5 million, an increase of
    $562.2 million as compared with cash used in operating
    activities of $196.7 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The main factor contributing to the
    increase is the payments of leasehold interests in land. In
    2006, we paid $786.7 million for the Singapore leasehold
    interest in land and in 2007, we made payments totaling
    $235.2 million for the Macao leasehold interests in land
    related to parcels 1, 2 and 3 and the Sands Macao hotel tower
    expansion. This increase is offset by a decrease in operating
    income (as previously described) during the year ended
    December 31, 2007, as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006.

Cash
    Flows — Investing Activities

Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    totaled $3.79 billion, including $1.96 billion for
    construction and development activities in Macao (including the
    Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao and our other developments on
    the Cotai Strip); $1.18 billion for construction and
    development activities at The Palazzo and The Shoppes at The
    Palazzo; $364.6 million for construction and development
    activities in Singapore; $152.2 million on expansions,
    improvements and maintenance capital expenditures at The
    Venetian and The Sands Expo Center in Las Vegas; and
    $129.9 million for corporate and other activities,
    primarily for the purchase of aircraft and the construction of
    Sands Bethworks.



Restricted cash decreased $556.3 million due primarily to
    decreases in restricted cash balances at The Venetian, The
    Palazzo and The Sands Expo Center, which totaled
    $413.7 million, due primarily to construction payments
    related to The Palazzo and, to a lesser extent, the refinancing
    of the new $5.0 billion senior secured credit facility,
    which removed restrictions on certain cash balances. There was
    also a $406.2 million decrease in the restricted cash
    balances in Macao due to the use of proceeds from loan draws to
    fund additional construction costs for The Venetian Macao and a
    $50.0 million decrease related to the payment for our
    Pennsylvania gaming license, offset by an increase of
    $318.5 million in restricted cash balances held in
    Singapore for construction-related payments.

Cash
    Flows — Financing Activities

For the year ended December 31, 2007, net cash flows
    provided from financing activities were $3.32 billion. The
    net increase was primarily attributable to the net borrowings of
    $2.99 billion under the new U.S. senior secured credit
    facility, $1.55 billion under the Macao credit facility,
    $339.8 million under the Singapore bridge facility and
    $89.5 million under the airplane financings, offset by the
    net repayment of existing U.S. borrowings of
    $1.43 billion for the prior senior secured credit facility,
    $114.5 million for The Shoppes at The Palazzo construction
    loan and $90.9 million for The Sands Expo Center mortgage
    loan.

Capital
    and Liquidity

As previously described, we have a number of significant
    development projects underway in the United States, Macao and
    Singapore for which we expect construction to continue through
    2011. In the United States, the estimated costs to build the Las
    Vegas condominium tower and the Sands Bethworks project are each
    approximately $600.0 million, of which we have capitalized
    approximately $82.1 million and $66.9 million,
    respectively. In Macao, the estimated cost to build our
    developments on the Cotai Strip (including The Venetian Macao)
    is approximately $12.0 billion, of which we have
    capitalized approximately $2.91 billion. In Singapore,
    although construction has started on the Marina Bay Sands, we
    are continuing to work with the Singapore government to finalize
    various design aspects of the integrated resort and are in the
    process of finalizing our cost estimates for the project. We
    expect that the cost to design, develop and construct the Marina
    Bay Sands will be in excess of $4.0 billion (inclusive of
    payments made in 2006 for the land premium, taxes and other
    fees) of which we have incurred approximately $1.39 billion.

We have principally funded our global development projects
    through borrowings under the bank credit facilities of our
    operating subsidiaries, operating cash flows and proceeds from
    the disposition of non-core assets. In 2007, we began to execute
    our financing strategy to secure additional borrowing capacity
    to fund our existing and future development projects and
    operations in Asia, including Macao and Singapore, and the
    United States.

In April 2007, we increased the size of our Macao credit
    facility to fund our Macao development projects from
    $2.5 billion to $3.3 billion by exercising our right
    to access an additional $800.0 million of incremental
    facilities under the accordion feature provided under the Macao
    credit facility. The incremental $800.0 million consisted
    of an additional $600.0 million of term loans and an
    increase of $200.0 million to the revolving credit facility
    to $700.0 million. In connection with the increase in the
    Macao credit facility, the lenders also approved a reduction of
    the interest rate margin for all classes of loans by
    50 basis points, thereby reducing our overall interest
    expense under the Macao credit facility. As of December 31,
    2007, we had approximately $449.0 million available for
    borrowing under the revolving credit facility portion of the
    Macao credit facility. We are currently in the preliminary
    stages of exploring our options with respect to refinancing our
    Macao credit facility, the proceeds of which would be used to
    refinance the amount currently outstanding under the Macao
    credit facility as well as provide incremental borrowings to
    continue to fund our development projects on the Cotai Strip in
    Macao.

In May 2007, we initiated our U.S. refinancing efforts by
    entering into a $5.0 billion senior secured credit
    facility. A portion of the proceeds of this facility was used to
    refinance the indebtedness collateralized by our Las Vegas
    integrated resort, including The Venetian, The Palazzo, The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo and The Sands Expo Center, and to fund
    design, development and construction costs incurred in the
    connection with the completion of The Palazzo, which partially
    opened on December 30, 2007, The Shoppes at The Palazzo and
    the Las Vegas condominiums. We completed our
    U.S. refinancing efforts by entering into a
    $167.0 million amended and restated



FF&E credit facility in August 2007, the proceeds of which
    are being used to finance or refinance the acquisition of
    furniture, fixtures and equipment located in The Venetian and
    The Palazzo. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately
    $1.97 billion and $105.0 million of available
    borrowing capacity under the senior secured credit facility and
    the amended and restated FF&E credit facility,
    respectively. The senior secured credit facility permits us to
    make investments in our foreign subsidiaries and our other
    development projects outside of Las Vegas in an amount not to
    exceed $2.1 billion, and permits us to invest in our Sands
    Bethworks project so long as no more than 30% of any such
    investment is in the form of equity. As of December 31,
    2007, we have used approximately $705.8 million of the
    permitted $2.1 billion to fund a portion of our required
    equity contribution to the Marina Bay Sands project and
    investments with respect to our other Asian development
    projects, including in Macao.

In December 2007, we entered into a SGD 5.44 billion credit
    facility (approximately $3.76 billion at exchange rates in
    effect at December 31, 2007) to fund construction
    costs and expenses at the Marina Bay Sands, which closed and
    funded in January 2008. A portion of the proceeds of this
    facility, together with a portion of our initial
    SGD 800.0 million (approximately $553.4 million
    at exchange rates in effect at December 31,
    2007) equity contribution, were used to repay outstanding
    borrowings of approximately SGD 1.92 billion (approximately
    $1.33 billion at exchange rates in effect at
    December 31, 2007) on the existing Singapore bridge
    facility. The remaining funds available for borrowing under the
    Singapore credit facility will be used to fund a significant
    portion of the design, development and construction costs of the
    Marina Bay Sands project. Under the terms of the Singapore
    credit facility, we are obligated to fund at least 20% of the
    total costs and expenses incurred in connection with the design,
    development and construction of the Marina Bay Sands project
    with equity contributions or subordinated intercompany loans,
    with the remaining 80% funded with debt, including debt under
    the Singapore credit facility. We have funded our current equity
    contribution requirement through borrowings under our
    U.S. senior secured credit facility.

Due to these substantial development activities, included in
    current liabilities were construction payables of approximately
    $717.5 million as of December 31, 2007. As a portion
    of the current liabilities will be funded out of our long-term
    borrowing capacity, we had a working capital deficit of
    approximately $114.2 million as of December 31, 2007.
    Subsequent to year-end, we borrowed approximately
    $450.0 million on our credit facilities, of which
    approximately $225.0 million was used to pay construction
    payables outstanding as of December 31, 2007.

We held unrestricted and restricted cash and cash equivalents of
    approximately $857.2 million and $411.8 million,
    respectively, as of December 31, 2007. We believe that our
    existing cash balances, operating cash flows from The Venetian
    and The Palazzo and the proceeds from the anticipated sale of
    The Shoppes at the Palazzo to GGP and our Las Vegas condominium
    units, together with our available borrowing capacity under the
    U.S. senior secured credit facility and the FF&E
    credit facility, will be sufficient to fund the estimated
    development and construction costs for the Las Vegas
    condominiums and the Sands Bethworks projects during 2008. In
    addition, we believe that these funds will also enable us to
    fund our equity contribution requirement for the Marina Bay
    Sands project and provide additional capital to our Macao
    subsidiaries to fund a portion of our development projects on
    the Cotai Strip in Macao during this same time period.

Existing restricted and unrestricted cash balances at our Macao
    subsidiaries, operating cash flows from the Sands Macao and The
    Venetian Macao and available borrowing capacity under the Macao
    credit facility, together with funds made available under our
    U.S. senior secured credit facility, will be used to fund
    current development and construction costs for the Cotai Strip
    development activities in the short term. However, we will need
    to arrange additional debt

and/or

equity financing in the near term to continue to fund our
    design, development and construction activities at the remaining
    Cotai Strip development projects. We expect to complete this
    refinancing in 2008.

In the near term, we will continue to borrow significant amounts
    under our existing and future bank credit facilities as we fund
    our global construction and development projects. In connection
    with such borrowing needs, we regularly evaluate conditions in
    the global credit markets. However, we may not be able to obtain
    additional borrowings when necessary or on credit terms as
    favorable as our existing credit facilities. If we are not able
    to obtain the requisite financing or the terms are not as
    favorable as we anticipate, we may be required to slow or
    suspend our global development activities, including our Cotai
    Strip development, until such financing or other sources of
    funds become available.



Aggregate
    Indebtedness and Other Known Contractual Obligations

Our total long-term indebtedness and other known contractual
    obligations are summarized below as of December 31, 2007:

Payments Due by Period Ending December 31,

(12)

Less than

More than

1 Year

2-3 Years

4-5 Years

5 Years

Total

(In thousands)

Long-Term Debt
    Obligations

(1)

New Senior Secured Credit Facility — Term B

$

30,000

$

60,000

$

60,000

$

2,835,000

$

2,985,000

6.375% Senior Notes

—

—

—

250,000

250,000

Airplane Financings

3,688

7,375

7,375

71,046

89,484

FF&E Financing

6,142

29,940

25,334

—

61,416

Other U.S.

1,819

3,556

1,482

—

6,857

Macao Credit Facility — Term B and Local Term

4,500

93,813

935,437

866,250

1,900,000

Macao Credit Facility — Term B Delayed

1,750

14,000

684,250

—

700,000

Macao Credit Facility — Revolving Facility

—

—

251,000

—

251,000

Other Macao

6,434

—

—

—

6,434

Singapore Bridge Facility — Term Loan

—

—

311,053

283,351

594,404

Singapore Bridge Facility — Floating Rate Notes

—

—

380,176

349,179

729,355

Fixed Interest Payments

16,025

31,875

31,875

34,531

114,306

Variable Interest
    Payments

(2)

468,824

921,258

786,165

334,375

2,510,622

Contractual Obligations

HVAC Provider Fixed
    Payments

(3)

6,826

5,119

—

—

11,945

Former
    Tenants

(4)


1,300

1,300

7,377

10,627

Employment
    Agreements

(5)

7,974

7,633

—

—

15,607

Macao Leasehold Interests in
    Land

(6)

59,575

36,414

6,187

60,385

162,561

Mall
    Leases

(7)

7,660

15,927

16,086

129,567

169,240

Macao Fixed Gaming
    Tax

(8)

35,192

70,384

70,384

334,324

510,284

Ferries Purchase
    Commitment

(9)

28,667

—

—

—

28,667

Parking Lot
    Lease

(10)

1,200

2,400

2,400

109,500

115,500

Other Operating
    Leases

(11)

5,199

6,110

13,506

—

24,815

Total

$

692,125

$

1,307,104

$

3,584,010

$

5,664,885

$

11,248,124



Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements

We have not entered into any transactions with special purpose
    entities, nor have we engaged in any derivative transactions
    other than interest rate caps.

Restrictions
    on Distributions

We are a parent company with limited business operations. Our
    main asset is the stock and membership interests of our
    subsidiaries. The debt instruments of our U.S., Macao and
    Singapore subsidiaries contain certain restrictions that, among
    other things, limit the ability of certain subsidiaries to incur
    additional indebtedness, issue disqualified stock or equity
    interests, pay dividends or make other distributions, repurchase
    equity interests or certain indebtedness, create certain liens,
    enter into certain transactions with affiliates, enter into
    certain mergers or consolidations or sell our assets of our
    company without prior approval of the lenders or noteholders.

Inflation

We believe that inflation and changing prices have not had a
    material impact on our sales, revenues or income from continuing
    operations during the past three fiscal years.

Special
    Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This report contains forward-looking statements that are made
    pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements
    include the discussions of our business strategies and
    expectations concerning future operations, margins,
    profitability, liquidity and capital resources. In addition, in
    certain portions included in this report, the words:
    “anticipates,” “believes,”
    “estimates,” “seeks,” “expects,”
    “plans,” “intends” and similar expressions,
    as they relate to our company or its management, are intended to
    identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that
    these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot
    assure you that any forward-looking statements will prove to be
    correct. These forward-looking statements involve known and
    unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause
    our actual



results, performance or achievements to be materially different
    from any future results, performance or achievements expressed
    or implied by these forward-looking statements.

These factors include, among others, the risks associated with:

•

general economic and business conditions which may impact levels
    of disposable income, consumer spending and pricing of hotel
    rooms;

•

the uncertainty of tourist behavior related to spending and
    vacationing at casino-resorts in Las Vegas, Macao and Singapore;

•

disruptions or reductions in travel due to conflicts with Iraq
    and any future terrorist incidents;

•

outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as severe acute
    respiratory syndrome or avian flu, in our market areas;

•

our dependence upon properties in Las Vegas and Macao for all of
    our cash flow;

•

new developments, construction and ventures, including The
    Venetian Macao and other Cotai Strip developments, Marina Bay
    Sands in Singapore, Sands Bethworks and the Las Vegas
    condominiums;

•

our ability to obtain sufficient funding for our developments,
    including our developments on the Cotai Strip;

•

the passage of new legislation and receipt of governmental
    approvals for our proposed developments in Macao, Singapore and
    other jurisdictions where we are planning to operate;

•

our substantial leverage and debt service (including sensitivity
    to fluctuations in interest rates and other capital markets
    trends);

•

our insurance coverage, including the risk that we have not
    obtained sufficient coverage against acts of terrorism or will
    only be able to obtain additional coverage at significantly
    increased rates;

•

government regulation of the casino industry, including gaming
    license regulation, the legalization of gaming in certain
    domestic jurisdictions, including Native American reservations,
    and regulation of gaming on the Internet;

•

increased competition and additional construction in Las Vegas,
    including recent and upcoming increases in hotel rooms, meeting
    and convention space and retail space;

•

fluctuations in the demand for all-suites rooms, occupancy rates
    and average daily room rates in Las Vegas;

•

the popularity of Las Vegas as a convention and trade show
    destination;

•

new taxes or changes to existing tax rates;

•

our ability to meet certain development deadlines in Macao and
    Singapore;

•

our ability to maintain our gaming subconcession in Macao;

•

the completion of infrastructure projects in Macao;

•

increased competition and other planned construction projects in
    Macao; and

•

any future litigation.

All future written and verbal forward-looking statements
    attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are
    expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary
    statements contained or referred to in this section. New risks
    and uncertainties arise from time to time, and it is impossible
    for us to predict these events or how they may affect us.
    Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update
    any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as
    a result of new information, future events or developments,
    except as required by federal securities laws.



Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America requires our management to make
    estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
    assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. These
    estimates and judgments are based on historical information,
    information that is currently available to us and on various
    other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable
    under the circumstances. Actual results could vary from those
    estimates and we may change our estimates and assumptions in
    future evaluations. Changes in these estimates and assumptions
    may have a material effect on our results of operations and
    financial condition. We believe that the critical accounting
    policies discussed below affect our more significant judgments
    and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated
    financial statements.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Casino Accounts

We maintain an allowance, or reserve, for doubtful casino
    accounts at our operating casino resorts in Las Vegas and Macao.
    We regularly evaluate the allowance for doubtful casino
    accounts. We specifically analyze the collectability of each
    account with a balance over a specified dollar amount, based
    upon the age of the account, the customer’s financial
    condition, collection history and any other known information,
    and we apply standard reserve percentages to aged account
    balances under the specified dollar amount. We also monitor
    regional and global economic conditions and forecasts in our
    evaluation of the adequacy of the recorded reserves. Credit or
    marker play is significant at our Las Vegas properties as credit
    table games play represented approximately 62.6% of total table
    games play. In Macao where table games play is primarily cash
    play, credit table games play represented approximately 19.4% of
    total table games play at our Macao resorts. Our allowance for
    doubtful casino accounts was 26.5% and 25.8% of gross casino
    receivables for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Our allowance for doubtful accounts from our hotel
    and other receivables is not material.

Self-Insurance
    Accruals

We maintain accruals for health and workers compensation
    self-insurance, which are classified in other accrued
    liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. We determine the
    adequacy of these accruals by periodically evaluating the
    historical experience and projected trends related to these
    accruals and in consultation with outside actuarial experts. If
    such information indicates that the accruals are overstated or
    understated, or if business conditions indicate we should adjust
    the assumptions utilized, we will reduce or provide for
    additional accruals as appropriate.

Litigation
    Accrual

We are subject to various claims and legal actions. We estimate
    the accruals for these claims and legal actions in accordance
    with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for
    Contingencies,” and include such accruals in other accrued
    liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.

Property
    and Equipment

At December 31, 2007, we had net property and equipment of
    $8.57 billion, representing 74.8% of our total assets. We
    depreciate property and equipment on a straight-line basis over
    their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives are
    based on the nature of the assets as well as current operating
    strategy and legal considerations such as contractual life.
    Future events, such as property expansions, property
    developments, new competition, or new regulations, could result
    in a change in the manner in which we use certain assets
    requiring a change in the estimated useful lives of such assets.

For assets to be held and used, fixed assets are reviewed for
    impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. If an
    indicator of impairment exists, we first group our assets with
    other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which
    identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash
    flows of other assets and liabilities (the “asset
    group”). Secondly, we estimate the undiscounted future cash
    flows that are directly associated with and expected to arise
    from the use of and eventual disposition of such asset group. We
    estimate the undiscounted cash flows over the remaining useful
    life of the primary asset within the asset group. If the
    undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying



value, no impairment is indicated. If the undiscounted cash
    flows do not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is
    measured based on fair value compared to carrying value, with
    fair value typically based on a discounted cash flow model. If
    an asset is still under development, future cash flows include
    remaining construction costs.

For assets to be held for sale, the fixed assets (the
    “disposal group”) are measured at the lower of their
    carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Losses are
    recognized for any initial or subsequent write-down to fair
    value less cost to sell, while gains are recognized for any
    subsequent increase in fair value less cost to sell, but not in
    excess of the cumulative loss previously recognized. Any gains
    or losses not previously recognized that results from the sale
    of the disposal group shall be recognized at the date of sale.
    Fixed assets are not depreciated while classified as held for
    sale.

Capitalized
    Interest

Interest costs associated with our major construction projects
    are capitalized and included in the cost of the projects. When
    no debt is incurred specifically for construction projects, we
    capitalize interest on amounts expended using the
    weighted-average cost of our outstanding borrowings.
    Capitalization of interest ceases when the project is
    substantially complete or construction activity is suspended for
    more than a brief period.

Leasehold
    Interest in Land

Leasehold interest in land represents payments made for the use
    of land over an extended period of time. The leasehold interests
    in land are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected
    term of the related lease agreements. Such assets are not
    considered qualifying assets for purposes of capitalizing
    interest and as such, are not included in the base used to
    determine capitalized interest.

Stock-Based
    Compensation

SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,”
    requires the recognition of compensation expense in the
    consolidated statements of operations related to the fair value
    of employee stock-based compensation. Determining the fair value
    of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment,
    including estimating the expected term that stock options will
    be outstanding prior to exercise, the associated volatility and
    the expected dividends. Expected volatilities are based on the
    historical volatilities from a selection of companies from our
    peer group due to our lack of historical information. We used
    the simplified method for estimating expected option life, as
    the options qualify as “plain-vanilla” options and we
    will continue to use the simplified method beyond
    December 31, 2007, due to the lack of historical
    information as allowed under Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 110, “Share-Based Payment.” We
    believe that the valuation technique and the approach utilized
    to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in
    calculating the fair values of our stock options granted.
    Judgment is also required in estimating the amount of
    stock-based awards expected to be forfeited prior to vesting. If
    actual forfeitures differ significantly from these estimates,
    stock-based compensation expense could be materially impacted.
    All employee stock options were granted with an exercise price
    equal to the fair market value (as defined in the Company’s
    2004 Equity Award Plan). We adopted SFAS No. 123R
    effective January 1, 2006. During the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, we recorded stock-based
    compensation expense of $33.2 million and
    $14.7 million, respectively. No such expense was recorded
    in 2005. As of December 31, 2007, there was
    $113.7 million of unrecognized compensation cost, net of
    estimated forfeitures of 8.0%, related to nonvested stock
    options and there was $4.1 million of unrecognized
    compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock. The
    stock option and restricted stock costs are expected to be
    recognized over a weighted average period of 3.3 years and
    1.7 years, respectively.

Income
    Taxes

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (including
    federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions in which
    we operate. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of
    temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
    liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax
    rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or
    recovered. SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income
    Taxes,” requires that deferred tax assets be evaluated for
    future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the
    extent we believe a portion will



not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the
    likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets,
    including our recent cumulative earnings experience and
    expectations of future taxable income by taxing jurisdiction,
    the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting
    purposes, and other relevant factors.

Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions
    and determining our provision for income taxes. During the
    ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and
    calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is
    uncertain. Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted the
    provisions of FIN No. 48, which contains a two-step
    approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions
    accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The
    first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by
    determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is
    more likely than not that the position will be sustained on
    audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation
    processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit
    as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being
    realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when
    evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits,
    which may require periodic adjustments and which may not
    accurately anticipate actual outcomes.

We are subject to income tax examination by tax authorities for
    the years after 2003. There are currently no income tax returns
    being examined by the Internal Revenue Service or other major
    tax authorities.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

See related disclosure at “Item 8 —
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements —
    Note 2 — Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies.”

ITEM 7A. —

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
    RISK

Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in
    market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign
    currency exchange rates and commodity prices. Our primary
    exposure to market risk is interest rate risk associated with
    our long-term debt. We attempt to manage our interest rate risk
    by managing the mix of our long-term fixed-rate borrowings and
    variable rate borrowings, and by use of interest rate cap
    agreements. The ability to enter into interest rate cap
    agreements allows us to manage our interest rate risk associated
    with our variable rate debt. We do not hold or issue financial
    instruments for trading purposes and do not enter into
    derivative transactions that would be considered speculative
    positions. Our derivative financial instruments consist
    exclusively of interest rate cap agreements, which do not
    qualify for hedge accounting. Interest differentials resulting
    from these agreements are recorded on an accrual basis as an
    adjustment to interest expense.

To manage exposure to counterparty credit risk in interest rate
    cap agreements, we enter into agreements with highly rated
    institutions that can be expected to fully perform under the
    terms of such agreements. Frequently, these institutions are
    also members of the bank group providing our credit facilities,
    which management believes further minimizes the risk of
    nonperformance.

The table below provides information about our financial
    instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For
    debt obligations, the table presents notional amounts and
    weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates.
    Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments
    to be exchanged under the contract. Weighted average variable
    rates are based on December 31, 2007, LIBOR, HIBOR and
    Singapore SWAP Offer



rates plus the applicable interest rate spread in accordance
    with the respective debt agreements. The information is
    presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is the
    Company’s reporting currency, for the years ending December
    31:

Fair






Thereafter

Total

Value

(1)

(In millions, except for percentages)

LIABILITIES

Long term debt

Fixed rate

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

250.0

$

250.0

$

232.5

Average interest
    rate

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

6.4

%

6.4

%

7.7

%

Variable rate

$

54.3

$

97.8

$

110.9

$

1,061.2

$

1,594.9

$

4,404.8

$

7,323.9

$

7,323.9

Average interest
    rate

(2)

6.5

%

6.4

%

6.4

%

6.2

%

6.5

%

6.3

%

6.3

%

6.3

%

ASSETS

Cap
    Agreements

(3)

$

—

$

0.1

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

0.1

$

0.1

Borrowings under the $5.0 billion senior secured credit
    facility bear interest at our election, at either an adjusted
    Eurodollar rate or at an alternative base rate plus a credit
    spread. The revolving facility and term loans bear interest at
    the alternative base rate plus 0.5% or 0.75% per annum,
    respectively, or at the adjusted Eurodollar rate plus 1.5% per
    annum or 1.75% per annum, respectively, subject to downward
    adjustments based upon our credit rating. Borrowings under the
    Macao credit facility bear interest at our election, at either
    an adjusted Eurodollar rate (or in the case of the Local Term
    Loan, adjusted HIBOR) plus 2.25% per annum or at an alternative
    base rate plus 1.25% per annum, and is subject to a downward
    adjustment of 0.25% per annum from the beginning of the first
    interest period following the substantial completion of The
    Venetian Macao. Borrowings under the Singapore permanent
    facilities bear interest at the Singapore SWAP Offer Rate plus a
    spread of 2.25% per annum. $69.8 million and
    $19.7 million of the borrowings under the airplane
    financings bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.5% and 1.25% per annum,
    respectively.

Foreign currency transaction losses for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, were $5.3 million primarily due to
    U.S. denominated debt held in Macao. We may be vulnerable
    to changes in the U.S. dollar/pataca exchange rate. Based
    on balances as of December 31, 2007, an assumed 1% change
    in the U.S. dollar/pataca exchange rate would cause a
    foreign currency transaction gain/loss of approximately
    $28.4 million. We do not hedge our exposure to foreign
    currencies; however, we maintain a significant amount of our
    operating funds in the same currencies in which we have
    obligations thereby reducing our exposure to currency
    fluctuations.

See also “— Liquidity and Capital Resources”
    and “Item 8 — Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt.”



ITEM 8. —

FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Financial Statements:

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm


Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31,
    2007 and 2006


Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
    Equity and Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in
    the period ended December 31, 2007


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial Statement Schedule:

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


The financial information included in the financial statement
    schedule should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
    financial statements. All other financial statement schedules
    have been omitted because they are not applicable or the
    required information is included in the consolidated financial
    statements or the notes thereto.



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Directors and Stockholders of Las Vegas Sands Corp.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the accompanying index, present fairly, in all material
    respects, the financial position of Las Vegas Sands Corp. and
    its subsidiaries at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the
    results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
    three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the
    financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index
    presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
    forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
    consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the
    Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
    control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007,
    based on criteria established in

Internal Control —
    Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company’s management is responsible for these financial
    statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting, included in Management’s Annual Report
    on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under
    Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these
    financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and
    on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
    based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
    plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about
    whether the financial statements are free of material
    misstatement and whether effective internal control over
    financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
    audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test
    basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
    financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
    and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
    control over financial reporting included obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
    and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
    included performing such other procedures as we considered
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts
    for income tax uncertainties in 2007 and the manner in which it
    accounts for stock-based compensation in 2006.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Las Vegas, Nevada

February 28, 2008



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated
    Balance Sheets

December 31,



(In thousands,

except share data)

ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

857,150

$

468,066

Restricted cash

232,944

398,762

Accounts receivable, net

187,195

173,683

Inventories

19,902

12,291

Deferred income taxes

32,471

15,688

Prepaid expenses and other

49,424

25,067

Total current assets

1,379,086

1,093,557

Property and equipment, net

8,574,614

4,582,325

Deferred financing costs, net

107,338

70,381

Restricted cash

178,824

555,132

Leasehold interests in land, net

1,069,609

809,856

Other assets, net

157,046

15,207

Total assets

$

11,466,517

$

7,126,458

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

99,023

$

51,038

Construction payables

717,541

329,375

Accrued interest payable

11,465

8,496

Other accrued liabilities

610,911

318,901

Income taxes payable

—

20,352

Current maturities of long-term debt

54,333

6,486

Total current liabilities

1,493,273

734,648

Other long-term liabilities

28,674

10,742

Deferred income taxes

1,553


Deferred gain on sale of The Grand Canal Shops

61,200

64,665

Deferred rent from The Grand Canal Shops transaction

103,546

104,773

Long-term debt

7,517,997

4,136,152

Total liabilities

9,206,243

5,051,304

Commitments and contingencies (Note 11)

Stockholders’ equity:

Common stock, $0.001 par value, 1,000,000,000 shares
    authorized, 355,271,070 and 354,492,452 shares issued and
    outstanding



Capital in excess of par value

1,064,878

990,429

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(2,493

)

(580

)

Retained earnings

1,197,534

1,084,951

Total stockholders’ equity

2,260,274

2,075,154

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

11,466,517

$

7,126,458

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated
    Statements of Operations

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands, except share and per share data)

Revenues:

Casino

$

2,250,421

$

1,676,061

$

1,250,090

Rooms

437,357

350,606

323,560

Food and beverage

238,252

187,819

147,510

Convention, retail and other

178,392

125,692

103,065

3,104,422

2,340,178

1,824,225

Less — promotional allowances

(153,855

)

(103,319

)

(83,313

)

Net revenues

2,950,567

2,236,859

1,740,912

Operating expenses:

Casino

1,435,662

925,033

656,590

Rooms

94,219

85,651

82,058

Food and beverage

118,273

89,113

76,736

Convention, retail and other

97,689

64,315

58,068

Provision for doubtful accounts

26,369

18,067

9,358

General and administrative

319,357

230,355

192,806

Corporate expense

94,514

59,570

38,297

Rental expense

31,787

13,478

14,841

Pre-opening expense

189,280

37,673

3,732

Development expense

9,728

26,112

22,238

Depreciation and amortization

202,557

110,771

95,296

Loss on disposal of assets

1,122

2,624

1,441

2,620,557

1,662,762

1,251,461

Operating income

330,010

574,097

489,451

Other income (expense):

Interest income

72,464

66,191

33,111

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized

(244,808

)

(135,853

)

(96,292

)

Other expense

(8,682

)

(189

)

(1,334

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

(10,705

)

—

(137,000

)

Income before income taxes

138,279

504,246

287,936

Provision for income taxes

(21,591

)

(62,243

)

(4,250

)

Net income

$

116,688

$

442,003

$

283,686

Basic earnings per share

$

0.33

$

1.25

$

0.80

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.33

$

1.24

$

0.80

Weighted average shares outstanding:

Basic

354,807,700

354,277,941

354,161,165

Diluted

355,789,619

355,264,444

354,526,604

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated
    Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive
    Income

Accumulated

Common Stock

Capital

Other

Number

in Excess

Comprehensive

of

of Par

Deferred

Income

Retained

Shares

Amount

Value

Compensation

(Loss)

Earnings

Total

(In thousands, except share data)

Balance at

January 1, 2005

354,160,692

$


$

956,385

$

—

$

—

$

359,262

$

1,316,001

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

283,686

283,686

Currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

1,726

—

1,726

Total comprehensive income

285,412

Exercise of stock options

10,800

—


—

—

—


Tax benefit from stock-based compensation

—

—

8,149

—

—

—

8,149

Issuance of restricted stock

8,088

—


(300

)

—

—

—

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—


—

—


Initial public offering transaction costs

—

—

(487

)

—

—

—

(487

)

Balance at

December 31, 2005

354,179,580


964,660

(150

)

1,726

642,948

1,609,538

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

442,003

442,003

Currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

(2,306

)

—

(2,306

)

Total comprehensive income

439,697

Exercise of stock options

240,912

—

7,226

—

—

—

7,226

Tax benefit from stock-based compensation

—

—

1,876

—

—

—

1,876

Stock-based compensation

—

—

16,667


—

—

16,817

Issuance of restricted stock

71,960

—

—

—

—

—

—

Balance at

December 31, 2006

354,492,452


990,429

—

(580

)

1,084,951

2,075,154

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

116,688

116,688

Currency translation adjustment

—

—

—

—

(1,913

)

—

(1,913

)

Total comprehensive income

114,775

Exercise of stock options

727,692


30,221

—

—

—

30,222

Tax benefit from stock-based compensation

—

—

7,526

—

—

—

7,526

Stock-based compensation

—

—

36,702

—

—

—

36,702

Issuance of restricted stock

50,926

—

—

—

—

—

—

Cumulative effect from adoption of FIN No. 48

—

—

—

—

—

(4,105

)

(4,105

)

Balance at

December 31, 2007

355,271,070

$


$

1,064,878

$

—

$

(2,493

)

$

1,197,534

$

2,260,274

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP.

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

116,688

$

442,003

$

283,686

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
    (used in) operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

202,557

110,771

95,296

Amortization of leasehold interests in land included in rental
    expense

23,439



Amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue
    discount

26,786

13,894

9,192

Amortization of deferred gain and rent

(4,692

)

(4,690

)

(4,692

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

10,705

—

137,000

Loss on disposal of assets

1,122

2,624

1,441

Stock-based compensation expense

33,224

14,728


Provision for doubtful accounts

26,369

18,067

9,358

Foreign exchange loss

5,317

—

—

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation

(7,112

)

(1,401

)

8,149

Deferred income taxes

(15,554

)

3,914

(5,542

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Accounts receivable

(39,881

)

(106,972

)

(37,554

)

Inventories

(7,611

)

(2,324

)

(1,957

)

Prepaid expenses and other

(115,303

)

(13,933

)

(3,205

)

Leasehold interests in land

(235,235

)

(786,700

)

—

Accounts payable

47,985

16,235

1,420

Accrued interest payable

2,969


(1,269

)

Other accrued liabilities

306,509

73,449

97,695

Income taxes payable

(12,825

)

22,228

—

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

365,457

(196,720

)

589,916

Cash flows from investing activities:

Change in restricted cash

556,276

(310,565

)

(265,386

)

Capital expenditures

(3,793,703

)

(1,925,291

)

(860,621

)

Acquisition of gaming license included in other assets

(50,000

)

—

—

Net cash used in investing activities

(3,287,427

)

(2,235,856

)

(1,126,007

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Transaction costs from initial public offering of common stock

—

—

(487

)

Dividends paid to shareholders

—

—

(21,052

)

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

30,221

7,226


Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation

7,112

1,401

—

Proceeds from long-term debt (Note 8)

5,135,076

2,619,995

812,222

Repayments of long-term debt (Note 8)

(1,775,801

)

(132,746

)

(969,127

)

Repurchase premiums incurred in connection with refinancing
    transactions

—

—

(113,311

)

Payments of deferred financing costs

(73,743

)

(52,894

)

(11,276

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

3,322,865

2,442,982

(302,718

)

Effect of exchange rate on cash

(11,811

)



Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

389,084

11,220

(838,052

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

468,066

456,846

1,294,898

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

857,150

$

468,066

$

456,846

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:

Cash payments for interest

$

438,301

$

215,975

$

111,066

Cash payments for taxes

$

60,000

$

34,750

$

—

Non-cash investing and financing activities:

Property and equipment asset acquisitions included in
    construction payables

$

717,541

$

329,375

$

163,932

Utilization of deposit to purchase property and equipment

$

—

$

—

$

10,000

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 — Organization
    and Business of Company

Las Vegas Sands Corp. (“LVSC” or together with its
    subsidiaries, the “Company”) was incorporated in
    Nevada during August 2004 and completed an initial public
    offering of its common stock in December 2004. Immediately prior
    to the initial public offering, LVSC acquired 100% of the
    capital stock of Las Vegas Sands, Inc., which was converted into
    a Nevada limited liability company, Las Vegas Sands, LLC
    (“LVSLLC”) in July 2005. LVSC’s common stock is
    traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
    “LVS.”

Operations

The Company owns and operates The Venetian Resort Hotel Casino
    (“The Venetian”), a Renaissance Venice-themed resort
    situated on the Las Vegas Strip (the “Strip”). The
    Venetian includes the first all-suites hotel on the Strip with
    4,027 suites; a gaming facility of approximately
    120,000 square feet; an enclosed retail, dining and
    entertainment complex of approximately 440,000 net leasable
    square feet (“The Grand Canal Shops”), which was sold
    to General Growth Partners (“GGP”) in 2004; a meeting
    and conference facility of approximately 1.1 million square
    feet (“The Congress Center”); and an expo and
    convention center of approximately 1.2 million square feet
    (“The Sands Expo Center”).

The Company owns and operates The Palazzo Resort Hotel Casino
    (“The Palazzo”), a second resort similar in size to
    The Venetian, which is situated on a

14-acre

site
    next to The Venetian. The Palazzo, which partially opened in
    December 2007, includes a 50-floor luxury hotel tower with 3,066
    suites; a gaming facility of approximately 105,000 square
    feet; an entertainment center; and an enclosed shopping and
    dining complex of approximately 400,000 square feet
    (“The Shoppes at The Palazzo”), which the Company has
    contracted to sell to GGP. The Company anticipates the
    transaction to close on February 29, 2008, or shortly
    thereafter.

The Company also owns and operates the Sands Macao, the first
    Las Vegas-style casino in Macao, China, pursuant to a

20-year

gaming subconcession. The Sands Macao offers over
    229,000 square feet of gaming space, as well as several
    restaurants, VIP facilities, a theater, and other high-end
    services and amenities. In addition, the completion of the hotel
    tower in September 2007 increased the number of suites from 51
    to 289.

On August 28, 2007, the Company opened The Venetian Macao
    Resort Hotel (“The Venetian Macao”) on the Cotai
    Strip

tm

,
    a master-planned development of resort properties in Macao,
    China. With a theme similar to that of The Venetian, The
    Venetian Macao includes a 39-floor luxury hotel with over 2,900
    suites; a casino floor of approximately 550,000 square
    feet; a 15,000-seat arena; retail space of approximately
    1.0 million square feet; and a convention center and
    meeting room complex of approximately 1.2 million square
    feet.

United
    States Development Projects

Las Vegas
    Condominiums

The Company is in the early stages of constructing a high-rise
    residential condominium tower with approximately
    1.0 million saleable square feet that will be situated
    between The Palazzo and The Venetian. The condominium tower is
    currently expected to open in late 2009.

Sands
    Bethworks

On December 20, 2006, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board
    announced that the Company’s subsidiary, Sands Bethworks
    Gaming LLC (“Sands Bethworks Gaming”), had been
    awarded a Pennsylvania gaming license. Sands Bethworks Gaming
    will develop a gaming, hotel, shopping and dining complex called
    Sands Bethworks, located on the site of the Historic Bethlehem
    Steel Works in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, which is about
    70 miles from midtown Manhattan, New York. In its first
    phase, the

124-acre

development is expected to feature a 300-room hotel,
    200,000 square feet of retail space, up to 5,000 slot
    machines, a 50,000-square-foot multipurpose event center and a
    variety of dining options. Sands Bethworks is also expected to
    be home to the National Museum of Industrial



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

History, an arts and cultural center, and the broadcast home of
    the local PBS affiliate. In July 2007, the Company paid a
    $50.0 million licensing fee to the Commonwealth of
    Pennsylvania, and in August 2007 was issued its gaming license
    by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board. The Company will own
    the property through its joint venture with Bethworks Now, LLC,
    which has yet to contribute the land in the joint venture. The
    Company expects the contribution to take place in 2008; however,
    no assurances can be given as to the timing of the contribution.
    If the land is not contributed as required under the
    Company’s agreement with Bethworks Now, LLC, the Company
    could lose all or a substantial portion of its
    $116.9 million investment in Sands Bethworks as of
    December 31, 2007. Sands Bethworks is expected to open in
    summer 2009.

Macao
    Development Projects

The Company has submitted development plans to the Macao
    government for six integrated resort developments, in addition
    to The Venetian Macao, on an area of approximately
    200 acres located on the Cotai Strip (referred to as
    parcels 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8). The developments are expected to
    include hotels, exhibition and conference facilities, casinos,
    showrooms, shopping malls, spas, restaurants, entertainment
    facilities and other attractions and amenities, as well as
    public common areas. The Company has commenced construction or
    pre-construction for these six parcels on the Cotai Strip and
    plans to own and operate all of the casinos in these
    developments under its Macao gaming subconcession. More
    specifically, the Company intends to develop its other Cotai
    Strip properties as follows:

•

Parcel 2 is intended to be a Four Seasons hotel and casino
    development (“The Four Seasons Macao”), which will be
    adjacent to The Venetian Macao and is expected to be a boutique
    hotel under the Four Seasons brand with approximately 400 luxury
    hotel rooms (including 19
    Paiza

tm

mansions), distinctive dining experiences, a full service spa
    and other amenities, approximately 70,000 square feet of
    gaming space, approximately 220,000 square feet of upscale
    retail offerings and approximately 1.0 million square feet
    of Four Seasons-serviced and -branded luxury apartment hotel
    units. The Company will own the entire development. The Company
    has entered into an exclusive non-binding letter of intent and
    is currently negotiating definitive agreements under which Four
    Seasons Hotels Inc. will manage the hotel and serviced luxury
    apartment hotel under its Four Seasons brand. The Four Seasons
    Macao is expected to open in summer 2008, with the Paiza
    mansions coming on line in spring 2009 and the serviced luxury
    apartment hotel being completed in summer 2009.

•

Parcel 5 is intended to include a three-hotel complex with
    approximately 2,300 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms, a casino,
    a retail shopping mall and approximately 320 serviced luxury
    apartment hotel units. The Company will own the entire
    development and has entered into management agreements with
    Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts to manage two hotels under
    its Shangri-La and Traders brands and Starwood
    Hotels & Resorts Worldwide to manage a hotel and
    serviced luxury apartment hotel under its St. Regis brand.

•

Parcel 6 is intended to include a two-hotel complex with
    approximately 4,100 luxury and mid-scale hotel rooms, a casino
    and a retail shopping mall physically connected to the mall in
    the Shangri-La/Traders hotel podium. The Company will own the
    entire development and has entered into a management agreement
    with Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide to manage the
    hotels under its Sheraton brand.

•

Parcels 7 and 8 are intended to include multi-hotel complexes
    with a total of approximately 6,150 luxury and mid-scale hotel
    rooms, a casino, retail shopping malls and approximately 450
    serviced luxury apartment hotel units that are physically
    connected to the hotel complexes. The Company will own the
    entire development and has entered into non-binding agreements
    with Hilton Hotels to manage Hilton and Conrad brand hotels and
    serviced luxury apartment hotels on parcel 7 and Fairmont
    Raffles Holdings to manage Fairmont and Raffles brand hotels and
    serviced luxury apartment hotels on parcel 8. The Company is
    currently negotiating definitive agreements with Hilton Hotels
    and Fairmont Raffles Holdings.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

•

For parcel 3, the Company has signed a non-binding memorandum of
    agreement with an independent developer. The Company is
    currently negotiating the definitive agreement pursuant to which
    it will partner with the developer to build a multi-hotel
    complex, which may include a Cosmopolitan hotel. In addition,
    the Company has signed a non-binding letter of intent with
    Intercontinental Hotels Group to manage hotels under the
    Intercontinental and Holiday Inn International brands, and
    approximately 205 serviced luxury apartment hotel units under
    the Intercontinental brand, on this site. The Company is
    currently negotiating definitive agreements with
    Intercontinental Hotels Group. In total, the multi-hotel complex
    is intended to include approximately 3,940 hotel rooms, a
    casino, a retail shopping mall and serviced luxury apartment
    hotels.

The Four Seasons Macao is currently planned to feature
    approximately 130 table games and 225 slot machines. The casinos
    on parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 are currently planned to include a
    total of approximately 2,025 table games and 9,250 slot
    machines. Upon completion, the Company’s developments on
    the Cotai Strip (including The Venetian Macao) are currently
    planned to feature approximately 19,750 suites/rooms and
    1.6 million square feet of gaming space with a capacity of
    approximately 3,300 table games and 16,470 slot machines.

The Company has received a concession from the Macao government
    to build on parcels 1, 2 and 3 on the Cotai Strip, including the
    site on which the Company owns and operates The Venetian Macao
    (parcel 1) and the site on which it is building The Four
    Seasons Macao (parcel 2). The Company does not own these land
    sites in Macao; however, the land concession, which has a term
    of 25 years and is renewable at the Company’s option,
    grants the Company exclusive use of the land. As specified in
    the land concession, the Company is required to pay premiums,
    which are payable over four years or are due upon the completion
    of the corresponding resort, as well as annual rent for the term
    of the land concession.

The Company does not yet have all the necessary Macao government
    approvals that it will need in order to develop all of its
    planned Cotai Strip developments. The Company has commenced
    construction or pre-construction for the projects on parcels 5,
    6, 7 and 8 on the Cotai Strip for which it has not yet been
    granted land concessions. The Company is in the process of
    negotiating with the Macao government to obtain the land
    concession for parcels 5 and 6, and will subsequently
    negotiate the land concession for parcels 7 and 8. If the
    Company does not obtain land concessions, it could forfeit all
    or a substantial part of its $623.0 million in capitalized
    construction costs related to these Cotai Strip projects as of
    December 31, 2007.

Hengqin
    Island Development Project

The Company has entered into a non-binding letter of intent with
    the Zhuhai Municipal People’s Government of the
    People’s Republic of China to work together to create a
    master plan for, and develop, a leisure and convention
    destination resort on Hengqin Island, which is located within
    mainland China, approximately one mile from the Cotai Strip. In
    January 2007, the Company was informed that the Zhuhai
    Government established a Project Coordination Committee to act
    as a government liaison empowered to work directly with the
    Company to advance the development of the project. The Company
    has interfaced with this committee and is working actively with
    the committee as it continues to advance its plans. The project
    remains subject to a number of conditions, including further
    governmental approvals.

Singapore
    Development Project

In August 2006, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. (“MBS”), entered into a
    development agreement (the “Development Agreement”)
    with the Singapore Tourism Board (the “STB”) to build
    and operate an integrated resort called the Marina Bay Sands in
    Singapore. The Marina Bay Sands is expected to include three 50+
    story hotel towers (totaling approximately 2,700 rooms), a
    casino, an enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex of
    approximately 850,000 net leasable square feet, a
    convention center and meeting room complex of approximately
    1.2 million square feet, theaters and a landmark iconic
    structure at the bay-front promenade that contains an
    art/science museum. The Marina Bay Sands is expected to open in
    late 2009.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

United
    Kingdom Development Projects

The United Kingdom government announced that the approval for
    the country’s first regional super casino had been
    rescinded. Should the government approve an alternative super
    casino site, the Company intends to evaluate the efficacy of
    participating in the tender process for that site. In addition,
    the Company has an existing agreement to develop and lease a
    gaming and entertainment facility with the Glasgow Rangers
    football club in the United Kingdom. The Company’s ability
    to eventually develop and lease a gaming and entertainment
    facility under the agreement is subject to a number of
    conditions, including the passage of appropriate legislation and
    the ability to obtain a gaming license.

Other
    Development Projects

The Company is currently exploring the possibility of developing
    and operating additional properties, including integrated
    resorts, in other Asian and U.S. jurisdictions, and in
    Europe. In December 2007, the Company submitted applications to
    the Kansas Lottery Commission for a gaming license and if
    successful, the Company plans to develop a casino resort in the
    Kansas City, Kansas, metropolitan area.

Development
    Financing Strategy

As previously described, the Company has a number of significant
    development projects underway in the United States, Macao and
    Singapore for which construction is expected to continue through
    2011. In the United States, the estimated costs to build the Las
    Vegas condominium tower and the Sands Bethworks project are each
    approximately $600.0 million, of which the Company has
    capitalized approximately $82.1 million and
    $66.9 million, respectively. In Macao, the estimated cost
    to build the Company’s developments on the Cotai Strip
    (including The Venetian Macao) is approximately
    $12.0 billion, of which the Company has capitalized
    approximately $2.91 billion. In Singapore, although
    construction has started on the Marina Bay Sands, the Company is
    continuing to work with the Singapore government to finalize
    various design aspects of the integrated resort and is in the
    process of finalizing its cost estimates for the project. The
    Company expects that the cost to design, develop and construct
    the Marina Bay Sands will be in excess of $4.0 billion,
    (inclusive of payments made in 2006 for the land premium, taxes
    and other fees), of which the Company has capitalized
    approximately $1.39 billion.

The Company has principally funded its global development
    projects through borrowings under the bank credit facilities of
    its operating subsidiaries, operating cash flows and proceeds
    from the disposition of non-core assets. In 2007, the Company
    began to execute its financing strategy to secure additional
    borrowing capacity to fund its existing and future development
    projects and operations in Asia, including Macao and Singapore,
    and the United States.

In April 2007, the Company increased the size of its Macao
    credit facility to fund the Company’s Macao development
    projects from $2.5 billion to $3.3 billion by
    exercising its right to access an additional $800.0 million
    of incremental facilities under the accordion feature provided
    under the Macao credit facility. The incremental
    $800.0 million consisted of an additional
    $600.0 million of term loans and an increase of
    $200.0 million to the revolving credit facility to
    $700.0 million. In connection with the increase in the
    Macao credit facility, the lenders also approved a reduction of
    the interest rate margin for all classes of loans by
    50 basis points, thereby reducing the Company’s
    overall interest expense under the Macao credit facility. As of
    December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately
    $449.0 million available under the revolving credit
    facility portion of the Macao credit facility. The Company is
    currently in the preliminary stages of exploring its options
    with respect to refinancing the Macao credit facility, the
    proceeds of which would be used to refinance the amount
    currently outstanding under the Macao credit facility as well as
    provide incremental borrowings to continue to fund the
    development projects on the Cotai Strip in Macao.

In May 2007, the Company initiated its U.S. refinancing
    efforts by entering into a $5.0 billion senior secured
    credit facility. A portion of the proceeds of this facility was
    used to refinance the indebtedness secured by the



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Company’s Las Vegas integrated resort, including The
    Venetian, The Palazzo, The Shoppes at The Palazzo and The Sands
    Expo Center, and to fund design, development and construction
    costs incurred in the connection with the completion of The
    Palazzo, which partially opened on December 30, 2007, The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo and the Las Vegas condominiums. The
    Company completed its U.S. refinancing efforts by entering
    into a $167.0 million amended and restated FF&E credit
    facility in August 2007, the proceeds of which are being used to
    finance or refinance the acquisition of furniture, fixtures and
    equipment located in The Venetian and The Palazzo. As of
    December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately
    $1.97 billion and $105.0 million of available
    borrowing capacity under the senior secured credit facility and
    the amended and restated FF&E credit facility,
    respectively. The senior secured credit facility permits the
    Company to make investments in its foreign subsidiaries and
    other development projects outside of Las Vegas in an amount not
    to exceed $2.1 billion, and permits the Company to invest
    in its Sands Bethworks project so long as no more than 30% of
    any such investment is in the form of equity. As of
    December 31, 2007, the Company has used approximately
    $705.8 million of the permitted $2.1 billion to fund a
    portion of its required equity contribution to the Marina Bay
    Sands project and investments with respect to its other Asian
    development projects, including in Macao.

In December 2007, the Company entered into a 5.44 billion
    Singapore dollar credit facility (“SGD,” approximately
    $3.76 billion at exchange rates in effect at
    December 31, 2007) to fund construction costs and
    expenses at the Marina Bay Sands, which closed and funded in
    January 2008. A portion of the proceeds of this facility,
    together with a portion of our initial SGD 800.0 million
    (approximately $553.4 million at exchange rates in effect
    at December 31, 2007) equity contribution, were used
    to repay outstanding borrowings of approximately SGD
    1.92 billion (approximately $1.33 billion at exchange
    rates in effect at December 31, 2007) on the existing
    Singapore bridge facility. The remaining funds available for
    borrowing under the Singapore credit facility will be used to
    fund a significant portion of the design, development and
    construction costs of the Marina Bay Sands project. Under the
    terms of the Singapore credit facility, the Company is obligated
    to fund at least 20% of the total costs and expenses incurred in
    connection with the design, development and construction of the
    Marina Bay Sands project with equity contributions or
    subordinated intercompany loans, with the remaining 80% funded
    with debt, including debt under the Singapore credit facility.
    The Company has funded its current equity contribution
    requirement through borrowings under its U.S. senior
    secured credit facility.

Due to these substantial development activities, included in
    current liabilities were construction payables of approximately
    $717.5 million as of December 31, 2007. As a portion
    of the current liabilities will be funded out of the
    Company’s long-term borrowing capacity, the Company had a
    working capital deficit of approximately $114.2 million as
    of December 31, 2007. Subsequent to year-end, the Company
    borrowed approximately $450.0 million on its credit
    facilities, of which approximately $225.0 million was used
    to pay construction payables outstanding as of December 31,
    2007.

The Company held unrestricted and restricted cash and cash
    equivalents of approximately $857.2 million and
    $411.8 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2007.
    The Company believes that its existing cash balances, operating
    cash flows from The Venetian and The Palazzo and the proceeds
    from the anticipated sale of The Shoppes at the Palazzo to GGP
    and Las Vegas condominium units, together with its available
    borrowing capacity under the U.S. senior secured credit
    facility and the FF&E credit facility, will be sufficient
    to fund the estimated development and construction costs for the
    Las Vegas condominiums and the Sands Bethworks projects during
    2008. In addition, the Company believes that these funds will
    also enable it to fund the Company’s equity contribution
    requirement for the Marina Bay Sands project and provide
    additional capital to its Macao subsidiaries to fund a portion
    of the development projects on the Cotai Strip in Macao during
    this same time period.

Existing restricted and unrestricted cash balances at the
    Company’s Macao subsidiaries, operating cash flows from the
    Sands Macao and The Venetian Macao and available borrowing
    capacity under the Macao credit facility, together with funds
    made available under the Company’s U.S. senior secured
    credit facility, will be used to fund current development and
    construction costs for the Cotai Strip development activities in
    the short term. However, the Company will need to arrange
    additional debt

and/or

equity financing in the near term to continue to fund its



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

design, development and construction activities at the remaining
    Cotai Strip development projects. The Company expects to
    complete this refinancing in 2008.

In the near term, the Company will continue to borrow
    significant amounts under its existing and future bank credit
    facilities as it funds its global construction and development
    projects. In connection with such borrowing needs, the Company
    regularly evaluates conditions in the global credit markets.
    However, the Company may not be able to obtain additional
    borrowings when necessary or on credit terms as favorable as the
    Company’s existing credit facilities. If the Company is not
    able to obtain the requisite financing or the terms are not as
    favorable as it anticipates, the Company may be required to slow
    or suspend its global development activities, including its
    Cotai Strip development, until such financing or other sources
    of funds become available.

Note 2 — Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles
    of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    the Company, its majority-owned subsidiaries and variable
    interest entities (“VIEs”) in which the Company is the
    primary beneficiary. The equity attributable to minority
    shareholders’ interests in subsidiaries, which is not
    material, is included in other long-term liabilities in the
    accompanying consolidated balance sheets. All significant
    intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
    consolidation.

Management’s determination of the appropriate accounting
    method with respect to the Company’s variable interests is
    based on Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
    Interpretation (“FIN”) No. 46R,
    “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities — an
    Interpretation of ARB No. 51.” The Company
    consolidates any VIEs in which it is the primary beneficiary and
    discloses significant variable interests in VIEs of which it is
    not the primary beneficiary, if any.

The Company entered into several joint ventures, formed with
    well-known and highly-regarded chefs and restaurateurs, to own
    and operate restaurants located within The Venetian and The
    Palazzo. In connection with these joint ventures, the Company
    obtained financial interests in which, based upon its
    evaluation, the Company was determined to be the primary
    beneficiary. In accordance with FIN No. 46R, the
    Company has consolidated these entities as of, and for the year
    ended, December 31, 2007.

Use of
    Estimates

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America requires the Company to make estimates
    and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of
    contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates and judgments
    are based on historical information, information that is
    currently available to the Company and on various other
    assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the
    circumstances. Actual results could vary from those estimates.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term
    investments with original maturities of less than 90 days.
    Such investments are carried at cost, which approximates their
    fair value. Cash equivalents are placed with high credit quality
    financial institutions and are primarily in money market funds.

Accounts
    Receivable and Credit Risk

Accounts receivable are principally comprised of casino and
    hotel receivables, which do not bear interest and are recorded
    at cost. The Company extends credit to approved casino customers
    following background checks and investigations of
    creditworthiness. Business or economic conditions, the legal
    enforceability of gaming debts, or



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

other significant events in foreign countries could affect the
    collectibility of receivables from customers residing in these
    countries.

The allowance for doubtful accounts represents the
    Company’s best estimate of the amount of probable credit
    losses in the Company’s existing accounts receivable. The
    Company determines the allowance based on specific customer
    information, historical write-off experience and current
    industry and economic data. Account balances are charged off
    against the allowance when the Company believes it is probable
    the receivable will not be recovered. Management believes that
    there are no concentrations of credit risk for which an
    allowance has not been established. Although management believes
    that the allowance is adequate, it is possible that the
    estimated amount of cash collections with respect to accounts
    receivable could change.

Inventories

Inventories consist primarily of food, beverage and retail
    products, and operating supplies, which are stated at the lower
    of cost or market. Cost is determined by the

first-in,

first-out and specific identification methods.

Property
    and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation and
    amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the
    estimated useful lives of the assets, which do not exceed the
    lease term for leasehold improvements, as follows:

Land improvements, building and building improvements

15 to 40 years

Furniture, fixtures and equipment

3 to 15 years

Leasehold improvements

5 to 10 years

Transportation

20 years

Maintenance and repairs that neither materially add to the value
    of the asset nor appreciably prolong its life are charged to
    expense as incurred. Gains or losses on disposition of property
    and equipment are included in the consolidated statements of
    operations.

The Company evaluates its property and equipment and other
    long-lived assets for impairment in accordance with Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144,
    “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
    Assets.” For assets to be disposed of, the Company
    recognizes the asset to be sold at the lower of carrying value
    or fair value less costs of disposal. Fair value for assets to
    be disposed of is estimated based on comparable asset sales,
    solicited offers or a discounted cash flow model.

For assets to be held and used, fixed assets are reviewed for
    impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. If an
    indicator of impairment exists, the Company first groups its
    assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for
    which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the
    cash flows of other assets and liabilities (the “asset
    group”). Secondly, the Company estimates the undiscounted
    future cash flows that are directly associated with and expected
    to arise from the use and eventual disposition of such asset
    group. The Company estimates the undiscounted cash flows over
    the remaining useful life of the primary asset within the asset
    group. If the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value,
    no impairment is indicated. If the undiscounted cash flows do
    not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is measured
    based on fair value compared to carrying value, with fair value
    typically based on a discounted cash flow model. If an asset is
    still under development, future cash flows include remaining
    construction costs.

For assets to be held for sale, the fixed assets (the
    “disposal group”) are measured at the lower of their
    carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Losses are
    recognized for any initial or subsequent write-down to fair
    value less cost to sell, while gains are recognized for any
    subsequent increase in fair value less cost to sell, but not in
    excess of the cumulative loss previously recognized. Any gains
    or losses not previously recognized that results from the sale



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

of the disposal group shall be recognized at the date of sale.
    Fixed assets are not depreciated while classified as held for
    sale.

Capitalized
    Interest

Interest costs associated with major construction projects are
    capitalized and included in the cost of the projects. When no
    debt is incurred specifically for construction projects,
    interest is capitalized on amounts expended using the
    weighted-average cost of the Company’s outstanding
    borrowings. Capitalization of interest ceases when the project
    is substantially complete or construction activity is suspended
    for more than a brief period. During the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company capitalized
    interest expense of $223.2 million, $94.6 million and
    $22.7 million, respectively.

Deferred
    Financing Costs and Original Issue Discounts

Deferred financing costs and original issue discounts are
    amortized to interest expense based on the terms of the related
    debt instruments using the effective interest method.

Leasehold
    Interest in Land

Leasehold interest in land represents payments made for the use
    of land over an extended period of time. The leasehold interests
    in land are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected
    term of the related lease agreements. Such assets are not
    considered qualifying assets for purposes of capitalizing
    interest and as such, are not included in the base used to
    determine capitalized interest.

Indefinite
    Useful Life Assets

Assets with indefinite useful lives are not subject to
    amortization and are tested for impairment annually or more
    frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the assets
    might be impaired. The impairment test consists of a comparison
    of the fair value of the asset with its carrying amount. If the
    carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value, an
    impairment will be recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
    If the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed the fair
    value, no impairment is recognized.

Revenue
    Recognition and Promotional Allowances

Casino revenue is the aggregate of gaming wins and losses. Cash
    discounts, commissions and other cash incentives to customers
    related to gaming play are recorded as a reduction of gross
    casino revenues. Hotel revenue recognition criteria are met at
    the time of occupancy. Food and beverage revenue recognition
    criteria are met at the time of service. Deposits for future
    hotel occupancy or food and beverage services contracts are
    recorded as deferred income until revenue recognition criteria
    are met. Cancellation fees for hotel and food and beverage
    services are recognized upon cancellation by the customer.
    Convention revenues are recognized when the related service is
    rendered or the event is held. Minimum rental revenues, adjusted
    for contractual base rent escalations, are included in
    convention, retail and other revenue and are recognized on a
    straight-line basis over the terms of the related lease.

In accordance with industry practice, the retail value of
    accommodations, food and beverage, and other services furnished
    to hotel/casino guests without charge is included in gross
    revenue and then deducted as



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

promotional allowances. The estimated retail value of such
    promotional allowances is included in operating revenues as
    follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Rooms

$

71,908

$

48,005

$

42,354

Food and beverage

63,805

44,768

34,760

Convention, retail and other

18,142

10,546

6,199

$

153,855

$

103,319

$

83,313

The estimated departmental cost of providing such promotional
    allowances is included primarily in casino operating expenses as
    follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Rooms

$

15,864

$

11,505

$

10,862

Food and beverage

40,622

29,302

23,153

Convention, retail and other

18,325

5,040

5,973

$

74,811

$

45,847

$

39,988

Frequent
    Players Program

The Company has established promotional clubs to encourage
    repeat business from frequent and active slot machine customers
    and table games patrons. Members earn points based on gaming
    activity and such points can be redeemed for cash or free play.
    The Company accrues for club points as a reduction to gaming
    revenue based upon the estimates for expected redemptions.

Pre-Opening
    and Development Expenses

The Company accounts for costs incurred in the development and
    pre-opening phases of new ventures in accordance with Statement
    of Position

No. 98-5,

“Reporting on the Costs of

Start-Up

Activities.” Pre-opening expenses represent personnel and
    other costs incurred prior to the opening of new ventures and
    are expensed as incurred. Development expenses include the costs
    associated with the Company’s evaluation and pursuit of new
    business opportunities, which are also expensed as incurred.

Advertising
    Costs

Costs for advertising are expensed the first time the
    advertising takes place or as incurred. Advertising costs for
    ongoing operations are included in general and administrative
    expense and totaled $12.2 million, $6.0 million and
    $4.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively.

Corporate
    Expenses

Corporate expense represents payroll, travel, professional fees
    and various other expenses not allocated or directly related to
    the Company’s integrated resort operations.

Foreign
    Currency

The Company accounts for currency translation in accordance with
    SFAS No. 52, “Foreign Currency Translation.”
    Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurements are
    currently included in net income. Balance sheet accounts are
    translated at the exchange rate in effect at each balance sheet
    date and income statement accounts



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

are translated at the average exchange rates during the year.
    Translation adjustments resulting from this process are charged
    or credited to other comprehensive income.

Comprehensive
    Income

Comprehensive income includes net income and all other
    non-stockholder changes in equity, or other comprehensive
    income. Elements of the Company’s comprehensive income are
    reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of
    stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income, and the
    cumulative balance of other comprehensive income consisted
    solely of foreign currency translation adjustments.

Earnings
    Per Share

The weighted average number of common and common equivalent
    shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per
    share consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,




Weighted-average common shares outstanding (used in the
    calculations of basic earnings per share)

354,807,700

354,277,941

354,161,165

Potential dilution from stock options and restricted stock

981,919

986,503

365,439

Weighted-average common and common equivalent shares (used in
    the calculations of diluted earnings per share)

355,789,619

355,264,444

354,526,604

Antidilutive stock options and restricted stock excluded from
    the calculation of diluted earnings per share

1,097,900

882,900

42,820

Stock-Based
    Employee Compensation

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the
    provisions of SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based
    Payment,” which establishes accounting for equity
    instruments exchanged for employee services. Under the
    provisions of SFAS No. 123R, stock-based compensation
    cost is measured at the grant date, based on the calculated fair
    value of the award, and is recognized over the employee’s
    requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the
    equity grant). Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company
    accounted for stock-based compensation to employees in
    accordance with Accounting Principles Board (“APB”)
    Opinion No. 25 “Accounting for Stock Issued to
    Employees,” and related interpretations. The Company also
    followed the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123,
    “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” as amended
    by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation — Transition and Disclosure.” The
    Company elected to adopt the modified prospective application
    transition method as provided by SFAS No. 123R and,
    accordingly, financial statement amounts for the prior periods
    presented in this

Form 10-K

have not been restated to reflect the fair value method of
    recording stock-based compensation. The Company’s
    stock-based employee compensation plan is more fully discussed
    in “— Note 12 — Stock-Based
    Employee Compensation.”



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company had previously adopted the provisions of
    SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148,
    for disclosure purposes only. Had the Company accounted for the
    plan under the fair value method allowed by
    SFAS No. 123, the Company’s net income and
    earnings per share would have been adjusted to the following
    pro forma amounts for the year ended December 31, 2005
    (dollars in thousands, except per share data):

Net income, as reported

$

283,686

Add: Stock-based compensation expense included in reported net
    income, net of tax


Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation expense
    determined under the minimum value method

—

Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation expense
    determined under Black-Scholes option-pricing model, net of tax

(3,791

)

Pro forma net income

$

279,991

Basic earnings per share, as reported

$

0.80

Basic earnings per share, pro forma

$

0.79

Diluted earnings per share, as reported

$

0.80

Diluted earnings per share, pro forma

$

0.79

Income
    Taxes

The Company is subject to income taxes in the
    U.S. (including federal and state) and numerous foreign
    jurisdictions in which it operates. Deferred income tax balances
    reflect the effects of temporary differences between the
    carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases
    and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect
    when taxes are actually paid or recovered.
    SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,”
    requires that deferred tax assets be evaluated for future
    realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent
    the Company believes a portion will not be realized. The Company
    considers many factors when assessing the likelihood of future
    realization of its deferred tax assets, including its recent
    cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future
    taxable income by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods
    available to it for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant
    factors.

Significant judgment is required in evaluating the
    Company’s tax positions and determining the provision for
    income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are
    many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax
    determination is uncertain. Effective January 1, 2007, the
    Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48,
    “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.”
    FIN No. 48 contains a two-step approach to recognizing
    and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in
    accordance with SFAS No. 109. The first step is to
    evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the
    weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than
    not that the position will be sustained on audit, including
    resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any.
    The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest
    amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon
    ultimate settlement. The Company considers many factors when
    evaluating and estimating its tax positions and tax benefits,
    which may require periodic adjustments and which may not
    accurately anticipate actual outcomes.

The Company is subject to income tax examination by tax
    authorities for the years after 2003. There are currently no
    income tax returns being examined by the Internal Revenue
    Service or other major tax authorities.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Tax
    Indemnification

In connection with the conversion of LVSLLC from a subchapter
    S corporation to a taxable C corporation for income tax
    purposes in 2004, LVSLLC entered into an indemnification
    agreement pursuant to which it agreed to:

•

indemnify those of the Company’s stockholders who were
    stockholders of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. prior to the 2004 initial
    public offering against certain tax liabilities incurred by
    these stockholders as a result of adjustments (pursuant to a
    determination by, or a settlement with, a taxing authority or
    court, or pursuant to the filing of an amended tax return) to
    the taxable income of Las Vegas Sands, Inc. with respect to
    taxable periods during which Las Vegas Sands, Inc. was a
    subchapter S corporation for income tax purposes; and

•

indemnify the Principal Stockholder against certain tax
    liabilities incurred by him as a result of adjustments (pursuant
    to a determination by, or a settlement with, a taxing authority
    or court, or pursuant to the filing of an amended tax return) to
    the taxable income of Interface Group Holding Company Inc. with
    respect to taxable periods during which it was a subchapter
    S corporation for income tax purposes.

Accounting
    for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

Generally accepted accounting principles require that an entity
    recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the
    statement of financial position and measure those instruments at
    fair value. If specific conditions are met, a derivative may be
    specifically designated as a hedge of specific financial
    exposures. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a
    derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and, if
    used in hedging activities, it depends on its effectiveness as a
    hedge.

The Company has a policy aimed at managing interest rate risk
    associated with its current and anticipated future borrowings.
    This policy enables the Company to use any combination of
    interest rate swaps, futures, options, caps and similar
    instruments. To the extent the Company employs such financial
    instruments pursuant to this policy, and the instruments qualify
    for hedge accounting, they are accounted for as hedging
    instruments. In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the
    underlying hedged item must expose the Company to risks
    associated with market fluctuations and the financial instrument
    used must be designated as a hedge and must reduce the
    Company’s exposure to market fluctuation throughout the
    hedge period. If these criteria are not met, a change in the
    market value of the financial instrument is recognized as a gain
    or loss in results of operations in the period of change.
    Otherwise, gains and losses are recognized in comprehensive
    income or loss except to the extent that the financial
    instrument is disposed of prior to maturity. Net interest paid
    or received pursuant to the financial instrument is included as
    interest expense in the period.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
    “Fair Value Measurements,” which defines fair value,
    establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands
    disclosures about fair value measurements.
    SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting
    pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurement.
    SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value
    measurements. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are
    effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
    beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods
    within those fiscal years. In January 2008, the FASB deferred
    the effective date for one year for certain non-financial assets
    and non-financial liabilities, except those that are recognized
    or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a
    recurring basis (at least annually). The Company is still
    evaluating the impact of this standard; however, the Company
    does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have
    a material effect on its financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
    “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Liabilities
    Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115.”
    Under SFAS No. 159, the Company may elect to measure
    many financial instruments and certain other items at fair
    value, which are not otherwise currently required to be measured
    at fair value. The decision to measure items at fair value is
    made at specific election dates on an



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

irrevocable

instrument-by-instrument

basis and requires recognition of the changes in fair value in
    earnings and expensing upfront costs and fees associated with
    the item for which the fair value option is elected. Fair value
    instruments for which the fair value option has been elected and
    similar instruments measured using another measurement attribute
    are to be distinguished on the face of the statement of
    financial position. SFAS No. 159 is effective for
    financial statements beginning after November 15, 2007. The
    Company is still evaluating the impact of this standard;
    however, the Company does not expect the adoption of
    SFAS No. 159 will have a material effect on its
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R,
    “Business Combinations,” which replaces FASB Statement
    No. 141, “Business Combinations.”
    SFAS No. 141R requires an acquirer to recognize the
    identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any
    noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date,
    measured at their fair values as of that date, with limited
    exceptions specified in the statement. SFAS No. 141R
    applies prospectively to business combinations for which the
    acquisition date is on or after the beginning of an
    entity’s fiscal year that begins after December 15,
    2008. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact of
    this standard; however, the Company does not expect the adoption
    of SFAS No. 141R will have a material effect on its
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
    “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements — An Amendment of ARB No. 51.”
    SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting
    standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and
    for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. Specifically, this
    statement requires the recognition of a noncontrolling interest
    (minority interest) as equity in the consolidated financial
    statements and separate from the parent’s equity. The
    amount of net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest
    will be included in consolidated net income on the face of the
    income statement. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that changes
    in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do
    not result in deconsolidation are equity transactions if the
    parent retains its controlling financial interest. In addition,
    this statement requires that a parent recognize a gain or loss
    in net income when a subsidiary is deconsolidated and also
    requires expanded disclosures regarding the interests of the
    parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. The
    provisions of SFAS No. 160 are effective for fiscal
    years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning
    on or after December 15, 2008. The Company is in the
    process of evaluating the impact of this standard; however, the
    Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 160
    will have a material effect on its financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows.

Note 3 —

Restricted
    Cash

In connection with the Company’s new U.S senior secured
    credit facility (see “— Note 8 —
    Long-Term Debt — Corporate and U.S. Related
    Debt — New Senior Secured Credit Facility”),
    restrictions on cash proceeds related to the prior senior
    secured credit facility, The Sands Expo Center mortgage loan and
    the loan to fund the construction of The Shoppes at The Palazzo
    were eliminated. At December 31, 2006, restricted cash
    balances related to these eliminated restrictions were
    $418.8 million.

As required by the Company’s Macao credit facility entered
    into in May 2006 (see “— Note 8 —
    Long-Term Debt — Macao Related Debt — Macao
    Credit Facility”), certain loan proceeds available under
    this facility and certain cash flows generated by our existing
    Macao operations have been deposited into restricted accounts,
    invested in cash or cash equivalents, and pledged to a
    collateral agent for the Macao credit facility lenders. This
    restricted cash amount will be used as required to fund
    construction of the Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao and other
    Cotai Strip project costs in accordance with terms specified in
    this facility. The restricted accounts are subject to a security
    interest in favor of the lenders under the Macao credit
    facility. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the cash
    balances in the restricted accounts were $59.2 million and
    $465.4 million, respectively.

As required by the Company’s Singapore bridge facility
    entered into in August 2006 (see
    “— Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt — Singapore Related Debt — Singapore
    Bridge Facility”), proceeds available under this facility
    have been deposited into accounts, invested in cash or cash
    equivalents, and pledged to a security trustee for the benefit
    of the Singapore bridge facility lenders. This restricted cash
    amount will be used as required to fund construction and



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

other operating and development costs of the Marina Bay Sands.
    These accounts are subject to a security interest in favor of
    the lenders under the Singapore bridge facility. As of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, the restricted cash balance was
    $338.1 million and $19.6 million, respectively.

In addition, restricted cash includes $14.5 million related
    to other items as of December 31, 2007. During the year
    ended December 31, 2007, the Company was issued a gaming
    license in Pennsylvania and $50.0 million in restricted
    cash at December 31, 2006, was transferred to the
    Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board as payment for the license
    (see “— Note 1 — Organization and
    Business of Company — United States Development
    Projects — Sands Bethworks”).

Restricted cash balances classified as current are primarily
    equivalent to the related construction payables that are also
    classified as current.

Note 4 — Accounts
    Receivable, Net

Accounts receivable consists of the following (in thousands):

At December 31,



Casino

$

117,193

$

119,514

Hotel

63,895

36,160

Other

39,223

53,485

220,311

209,159

Less — allowance for doubtful accounts

(33,116

)

(35,476

)

$

187,195

$

173,683

Note 5 — Property
    and Equipment, Net

Property and equipment consists of the following (in thousands):

At December 31,



Land and improvements

$

297,678

$

207,144

Building and improvements

4,435,934

1,622,783

Furniture, fixtures, equipment and leasehold improvements

1,013,138

456,230

Transportation

176,897

72,652

Construction in progress

3,258,750

2,694,180

9,182,397

5,052,989

Less — accumulated depreciation and amortization

(607,783

)

(470,664

)

$

8,574,614

$

4,582,325



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Construction in progress consists of the following (in
    thousands):

At December 31,



The Venetian Macao

110,759

1,474,312

The Four Seasons Macao

359,889

70,310

Other Macao Development Projects (Principally Cotai Strip

parcels 5 and 6)

714,701

130,355

Marina Bay Sands

552,850

30,511

The Palazzo and The Shoppes at The Palazzo

1,297,390

916,302

Other

223,161

72,390

$

3,258,750

$

2,694,180

As of December 31, 2007, portions of The Venetian Macao,
    The Palazzo and The Shoppes at The Palazzo were under
    construction and are scheduled to be completed during 2008.
    Approximately $429.0 million in construction in progress as
    of December 31, 2007, related to The Shoppes at the
    Palazzo, which is being sold to GGP (see
    “— Note 10 — Mall Sale —
    The Shoppes at The Palazzo”). The $223.2 million in
    other construction in progress consists primarily of the
    construction of Sands Bethworks and the Las Vegas condominiums,
    airplane-related purchases at corporate and other projects in
    Las Vegas.

As of December 31, 2007, the cost of property and equipment
    that the Company is leasing to tenants as part of its Macao mall
    operations was $216.4 million with accumulated depreciation
    of $3.4 million.

During the three months ended June 30, 2007, the Company
    recorded a charge of $4.8 million to properly account for
    pre-opening expenses that had been previously capitalized on the
    balance sheets during the years ended December 31, 2005 and
    2006, and the three months ended March 31, 2007. Because
    the amounts involved were not material to the Company’s
    financial statements in any individual prior period and the
    cumulative amount was not material to the results of operations
    for the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recorded
    the effect of correcting this item, which increased pre-opening
    expense and reduced property and equipment by $4.8 million,
    during the three months ended June 30, 2007.

Note 6 — Leasehold
    Interests in Land, Net

Leasehold interests in land consists of the following (in
    thousands):

At December 31,



Marina Bay Sands

$

854,386

$

806,021

Sands Macao

22,625

10,237

The Venetian Macao (parcel 1)

163,753

—

The Four Seasons Macao (parcel 2)

27,890

—

Parcel 3

29,839

—

1,098,493

816,258

Less — accumulated amortization

(28,884

)

(6,402

)

$

1,069,609

$

809,856

The Company will amortize the leasehold interests in land for
    Marina Bay Sands, Sands Macao and the three parcels on the Cotai
    Strip on a straight-line basis over the expected term of the
    leases at approximately $14.2 million, $1.2 million
    and $10.3 million, respectively, annually at exchange rates
    in effect as of December 31, 2007.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company made
    payments of 1.32 billion patacas (approximately
    $163.8 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2007) for the full payment of the land
    premium for parcel 1 and partial payments of 224.2 million
    patacas and 239.9 million patacas (approximately
    $27.9 million and $29.8 million, respectively, at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2007) towards
    the land premiums for parcels 2 and 3, respectively. The balance
    on parcel 2 will be due upon completion of The Four Seasons
    Macao, which is expected to be completed in summer 2008. The
    balance on parcel 3 will either be due upon the completion of
    the resorts on the parcel or will be payable through seven equal
    semi-annual payments (one of which was made in 2007), bearing
    interest at 5% per annum. The Company received a credit in the
    amount of 193.4 million patacas (approximately
    $24.1 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2007) towards the aggregate land premium
    related to reclamation work and other works done on the land,
    and the installation costs of an electrical substation.

In addition to the land premium payments for the Macao leasehold
    interests in land, the Company is required to make annual rent
    payments in the amounts and at the times specified in the land
    concessions. The rent amounts may be revised every five years by
    the Macao government. As of December 31, 2007, the Company
    was obligated under its concessions to make future premium and
    rental payments as follows (in thousands):


$

59,575


18,207


18,207


3,047


3,140

Thereafter

60,385

$

162,561

Note 7 —

Other
    Accrued Liabilities

Other accrued liabilities consist of the following (in
    thousands):

At December 31,



Customer deposits

$

143,053

$

78,313

Payroll and related

92,103

65,350

Taxes and licenses

140,003

78,922

Outstanding gaming chips and tokens

152,962

51,752

Other accruals

82,790

44,564

$

610,911

$

318,901



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 8 —
    Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):

At December 31,



Corporate and U.S. Related:

New Senior Secured Credit Facility — Term B

$

2,985,000

$

—

Senior Secured Credit Facility — Term B and Term B
    Delayed Draw

—

1,170,000

Senior Secured Credit Facility — Revolving Facility

—

260,128

6.375% Senior Notes (net of original issue discount of
    $1,620 and $1,847, respectively)

248,380

248,153

Airplane Financings

89,484

—

FF&E Financings

61,416

44,977

Other

6,857

—

The Sands Expo Center Mortgage Loan

—

90,868

Construction Loan for The Shoppes at The Palazzo

—

114,500

Macao Related:

Macao Credit Facility — Term B and Local Term

1,900,000

1,300,000

Macao Credit Facility — Term B Delayed

700,000

—

Macao Credit Facility — Revolving Facility

251,000

—

Other

6,434

—

Singapore Related:

Singapore Bridge Facility — Term Loan

594,404

393,510

Singapore Bridge Facility — Floating Rate Notes

729,355

520,502

7,572,330

4,142,638

Less — current maturities

(54,333

)

(6,486

)

Total long-term debt

$

7,517,997

$

4,136,152

Corporate
    and U.S. Related Debt

New
    Senior Secured Credit Facility

In May 2007, the Company entered into a $5.0 billion senior
    secured credit facility (the “New Senior Secured Credit
    Facility”), which consists of a $3.0 billion funded
    term loan (the “Term B Facility”), a
    $600.0 million delayed draw term loan available for
    12 months after closing (the “Delayed Draw I
    Facility”), a $400.0 million delayed draw term loan
    available for 18 months after closing (the “Delayed
    Draw II Facility”) and a $1.0 billion revolving
    credit facility, of which up to $100.0 million may be drawn
    on a swingline basis (the “Revolving Facility”).

The Term B Facility and the Delayed Draw I Facility mature on
    May 23, 2014. The Term B Facility is subject to quarterly
    amortization payments of $7.5 million, which began in
    September 2007, followed by a balloon payment of
    $2.80 billion due on May 23, 2014. The Delayed Draw I
    Facility is subject to quarterly amortization payments of
    $1.5 million, which begin on September 30, 2008,
    followed by a balloon payment of $565.5 million due on
    May 23, 2014. The Delayed Draw II Facility matures on
    May 23, 2013, and is subject to quarterly amortization
    payments of $1.0 million, which begin on March 31,
    2009, followed by a balloon payment of $383.0 million due
    on May 23, 2013. The Revolving Facility matures on
    May 23, 2012, and has no interim amortization. As of
    December 31, 2007, no amounts are outstanding under the
    Revolving Facility and no amounts have been drawn under the
    delayed draw facilities.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The New Senior Secured Credit Facility is guaranteed by certain
    of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries (the
    “Guarantors”). The obligations under the New Senior
    Secured Credit Facility and the guarantees of the Guarantors are
    collateralized by a first-priority security interest in
    substantially all of LVSLLC’s and the Guarantors’
    assets, other than capital stock and similar ownership
    interests, certain furniture, fixtures and equipment, and
    certain other excluded assets.

Borrowings under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility bear
    interest, at the Company’s option, at either an adjusted
    Eurodollar rate or at an alternative base rate plus a credit
    spread. For base rate borrowings, the initial credit spread is
    0.5% per annum and 0.75% per annum for the Revolving Facility
    and the term loans, respectively. For Eurodollar rate
    borrowings, the initial credit spread is 1.5% per annum and
    1.75% per annum for the Revolving Facility and the term loans,
    respectively (6.6% as of December 31, 2007). These spreads
    will be reduced by 0.25% if the Company’s “corporate
    rating” (as defined in the New Senior Secured Credit
    Facility) is increased to at least Ba2 by Moody’s and at
    least BB by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group,
    subject to certain additional conditions. The spread for the
    Revolving Facility will be further reduced by 0.25% if the
    Company’s “corporate rating” is increased to at
    least Ba1 or higher by Moody’s and at least BB+ or higher
    by S&P, subject to certain additional conditions. The
    weighted average interest rate for the New Senior Secured Credit
    Facility was 7.1% during the year ended December 31, 2007.

The Company will pay a commitment fee of 0.375% per annum on the
    undrawn amounts under the Revolving Facility, which will be
    reduced by 0.125% if certain ratings are achieved, subject to
    certain additional conditions. The Company will also pay a
    commitment fee equal to 0.75% per annum and 0.5% per annum on
    the undrawn amounts under the Delayed Draw I Facility and the
    Delayed Draw II Facility, respectively. The New Senior
    Secured Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative
    covenants customary for such financings, including, but not
    limited to, minimum ratios of adjusted earnings before interest,
    taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) to
    interest expense and maximum ratios of total debt outstanding to
    adjusted EBITDA. The New Senior Secured Credit Facility also
    contains conditions and events of default customary for such
    financings. In addition, there are provisions that limit or
    prohibit certain payments of dividends and other distributions
    to LVSC. At December 31, 2007, the net assets of LVSLLC
    were $5.86 billion, a substantial portion of which were
    restricted from being distributed under the terms of the New
    Senior Secured Credit Facility.

To meet the requirements of the New Senior Secured Credit
    Facility, the Company entered into an interest rate cap
    agreement in August 2007 with a notional amount of
    $1.64 billion, which expires on May 31, 2009. The
    provisions of this interest rate cap agreement entitle the
    Company to receive from the counterparty the amounts, if any, by
    which the selected market interest rate exceeds the strike rate
    of 6.75%. The Company has three additional interest rate cap
    agreements that it entered into as part of the prior senior
    secured credit facility with notional amounts of
    $500.0 million, $50.0 million and $10.0 million,
    which all expire on March 30, 2008. The provisions of these
    interest rate cap agreements entitle the Company to receive from
    the counterparties the amounts, if any, by which the selected
    market interest rates exceed the strike rates of 5.75%, 6.5% and
    6.375%, respectively. There was no net effect on interest
    expense as a result of these four interest rate cap agreements
    for the year ended December 31, 2007.

A portion of the proceeds of the Term B Facility was used to
    refinance the prior senior secured credit facility, repay the
    construction loan related to The Shoppes at The Palazzo and The
    Sands Expo Center mortgage loan, pay for certain construction
    and development related expenses incurred in connection with The
    Palazzo, and for fees and expenses related to the New Senior
    Secured Credit Facility. The Company incurred a charge of
    approximately $10.7 million for loss on early retirement of
    debt during 2007 as a result of refinancing the facility.

Senior
    Notes

On February 10, 2005, LVSC sold in a private placement
    transaction $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of
    its 6.375% Senior Notes due 2015 (the “Senior
    Notes”) with an original issue discount of
    $2.3 million. Net proceeds after offering costs and
    original issue discount were $244.8 million. The Senior
    Notes will mature on



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

February 15, 2015. LVSC has the option to redeem all or a
    portion of the Senior Notes at any time prior to
    February 15, 2010, at a “make-whole” redemption
    price. Thereafter, LVSC has the option to redeem all or a
    portion of the Senior Notes at any time at fixed prices that
    decline ratably over time. The Senior Notes are unsecured senior
    obligations of LVSC and are jointly and severally guaranteed on
    a senior unsecured basis by certain of LVSC’s existing
    domestic subsidiaries, which includes LVSLLC and Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC (“VCR”). The indenture governing the
    Senior Notes contains covenants that, subject to certain
    exceptions and conditions, limit the ability of LVSC and the
    subsidiary guarantors to enter into sale and leaseback
    transactions in respect of their principal properties, create
    liens on their principal properties and consolidate, merge or
    sell all or substantially all their assets. In June 2005, the
    Senior Notes were exchanged for substantially similar Senior
    Notes, which have been registered under the federal securities
    laws. In connection with entering into the New Senior Secured
    Credit Facility, the Senior Notes were collateralized on an
    equal and ratable basis with the obligations under the New
    Senior Secured Credit Facility.

Airplane
    Financings

In February 2007, the Company entered into promissory notes
    totaling $72.0 million to finance the purchase of one
    airplane and to finance two others that were already owned. The
    notes consist of balloon payment promissory notes and amortizing
    promissory notes, all of which have ten year maturities and are
    collateralized by the related aircraft. The notes bear interest
    at three-month LIBOR plus 1.5% per annum (6.6% as of
    December 31, 2007). The amortizing notes, totaling
    $28.8 million, are subject to quarterly principal and
    interest payments, which began June 1, 2007. The balloon
    notes, totaling $43.2 million, are subject to quarterly
    interest payments, which began June 1, 2007, with the
    principal payments due in full on March 1, 2017. The
    weighted average interest rate on the notes was 7.0% during the
    year ended December 31, 2007.

In April 2007, the Company entered into promissory notes
    totaling $20.3 million to finance the purchase of an
    additional airplane. The notes have ten year maturities and
    consist of a balloon payment promissory note and an amortizing
    promissory note. The notes bear interest at three-month LIBOR
    plus 1.25% per annum (6.1% as of December 31, 2007). The
    $8.1 million amortizing note is subject to quarterly
    principal and interest payments, which began June 30, 2007.
    The $12.2 million balloon note is subject to quarterly
    interest payments, which began June 30, 2007, with the
    principal payment due in full on March 31, 2017. The
    weighted average interest rate on the notes was 6.6% during the
    year ended December 31, 2007.

FF&E
    Financings

In December 2006, certain of the Company’s subsidiaries,
    including LVSLLC and VCR, entered into an FF&E credit
    facility agreement (the “FF&E Facility”) with a
    group of lenders and General Electric Capital Corporation as
    administrative agent to provide up to $142.9 million to
    finance or refinance the acquisition of certain furniture,
    fixtures and equipment (“FF&E”) located in The
    Venetian and The Palazzo. The FF&E Facility consisted of a
    $7.9 million funded term loan which proceeds refinanced a
    prior FF&E loan and a $135.0 million delayed draw term
    loan. In August 2007, the parties to the FF&E Facility
    entered into an amended and restated FF&E credit and
    guarantee agreement (the “Amended and Restated FF&E
    Facility”) which, among other things, increased the overall
    size of the delayed draw term loan facility to
    $167.0 million, repaid the funded term loan under the
    FF&E Facility and conformed the affirmative and negative
    covenants and events of default to those set forth in the New
    Senior Secured Credit Facility. The delayed draw term loan
    commitment under the Amended and Restated FF&E Facility
    terminates on June 30, 2008, and as of December 31,
    2007, $61.4 million was drawn under the delayed draw term
    loan.

The remaining proceeds of the Amended and Restated FF&E
    Facility may be used by LVSLLC and VCR to finance

and/or

refinance the acquisition of certain FF&E to be located in
    The Venetian and The Palazzo. The Amended and Restated FF&E
    Facility is collateralized by the FF&E financed

and/or

refinanced with the proceeds



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

of the Amended and Restated FF&E Facility, and is
    guaranteed by the same subsidiaries of the Company that
    guarantee the obligations under the New Senior Secured Credit
    Facility.

Borrowings under the Amended and Restated FF&E Facility
    bear interest, at the Company’s option, at either an
    adjusted Eurodollar rate or at a base rate, plus an applicable
    margin. The initial applicable margin is 1.0% per annum for
    loans accruing interest at the base rate, and 2.0% per annum for
    loans accruing interest at the adjusted Eurodollar rate (6.8% as
    of December 31, 2007). The applicable margins may be
    reduced by 0.25% under certain circumstances similar to those
    set forth in the New Senior Secured Credit Facility. The Company
    will also pay a commitment fee of 0.50% per annum on the undrawn
    amount of the term delayed draw loan.

The delayed draw term loan matures in June 2011. The Company is
    required to make principal payments in quarterly installments
    commencing on July 1, 2008, in an amount equal to 5.0% of
    the aggregate principal amount of the delayed draw term loan
    outstanding on July 1, 2008, with the remainder due in four
    equal quarterly installments ending on the maturity date. The
    Amended and Restated FF&E Facility also requires the
    Company to make mandatory prepayments of the delayed draw term
    loan under certain specified circumstances. The weighted average
    interest rate on the Amended and Restated FF&E Facility was
    7.4% during the year ended December 31, 2007.

Macao
    Related Debt

Macao
    Credit Facility

On May 25, 2006, two subsidiaries of the Company, VML US
    Finance, LLC (the “Borrower”) and Venetian Macau
    Limited (“VML”), as guarantor, entered into a credit
    agreement (the “Macao Credit Facility”). The Macao
    Credit Facility originally consisted of a $1.2 billion
    funded term B loan (the “Macao Term B Facility”), a
    $700.0 million delayed draw term B loan (the “Macao
    Term B Delayed Draw Facility”), a $100.0 million
    funded local currency term loan (the “Macao Local Term
    Facility”) and a $500.0 million revolving credit
    facility (the “Macao Revolving Facility”). In March
    2007, the Macao Credit Facility was amended to expand the use of
    proceeds and remove certain restrictive covenants. In April
    2007, the lenders of the Macao Credit Facility approved a
    reduction of the interest rate margin for all classes of loans
    by 50 basis points and the Borrower exercised its rights
    under the Macao Credit Facility to access the
    $800.0 million of incremental facilities under the
    accordion feature set forth therein, which increased the funded
    Macao Term B Facility by $600.0 million, the Macao
    Revolving Facility by $200.0 million, and the total Macao
    Credit Facility to $3.3 billion. As of December 31,
    2007, the Company had fully drawn $700.0 million under the
    Macao Term B Delayed Draw Facility and $251.0 million under
    the Macao Revolving Facility.

The indebtedness under the Macao Credit Facility is guaranteed
    by VML, Venetian Cotai Limited and certain of the Company’s
    other foreign subsidiaries (the “Macao Guarantors”).
    The obligations under the Macao Credit Facility and the
    guarantees of the Macao Guarantors are collateralized by a
    first-priority security interest in substantially all of the
    Borrower’s and the Macao Guarantors’ assets, other
    than (1) capital stock of the Borrower and the Macao
    Guarantors, (2) assets that secure permitted furniture,
    fixtures and equipment financings, (3) VML’s gaming
    subconcession contract and (4) certain other excluded
    assets.

Borrowings under the Macao Credit Facility bear interest, at the
    Company’s option, at either an adjusted Eurodollar rate
    (or, in the case of the Macao Local Term Facility, adjusted
    HIBOR) or at an alternative base rate, plus a spread of 2.25% or
    1.25%, respectively (5.7% for the Macao Local Term Facility and
    7.1% for the remainder of the Macao Credit Facility at
    December 31, 2007). The Borrower also pays a standby
    commitment fee of 0.5% on the undrawn amounts under the Macao
    Revolving Facility.

For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
    weighted average interest rates for the Macao Local Term
    Facility were 6.8% and 6.9%, respectively, and the weighted
    average interest rates for the remainder of the Macao Credit
    Facility were 7.8% and 8.1%, respectively.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

To meet the requirements of the Macao Credit Facility, the
    Company entered into four separate interest rate cap agreements
    in September 2006, May 2007 and October 2007 (collectively, the
    “Macao Cap Agreements”) with notional amounts of
    $1.0 billion, $325.0 million, $165.0 million and
    $160.0 million, all of which expire on September 21,
    2009. The provisions of the Macao Cap Agreements entitle the
    Company to receive from the counterparties the amounts, if any,
    by which the selected market interest rates exceed the strike
    rate of 6.75% as stated in such agreement. There was no net
    effect on interest expense as a result of the Macao Cap
    Agreements for the year ended December 31, 2007.

The Macao Revolving Facility and the Macao Local Term Facility
    have a five year maturity. The Macao Term B Delayed Draw
    Facility and the Macao Term B Facility mature in six and seven
    years, respectively. The Macao Term B Delayed Draw and the Macao
    Term B Facility are subject to nominal amortization for the
    first five and six years, respectively, commencing in the
    first quarter following substantial completion of The Venetian
    Macao, which occurred in 2007, with the remainder of the loans
    payable in four equal installments in the last year immediately
    preceding their maturity dates. Subsequent to substantial
    completion of The Venetian Macao, the Macao Local Term Facility
    is subject to quarterly amortization in an amount of
    approximately $6.3 million per quarter, with the
    remainder of the loan payable in four equal quarterly
    installments in the last year immediately preceding the maturity
    date.

The Macao Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative
    covenants customary for such financings, including, but not
    limited to, limitations on incurring additional liens, incurring
    additional indebtedness, making certain investments, paying
    dividends and making other restricted payments, and acquiring
    and selling assets. The Macao Credit Facility also requires the
    Borrower and the Macao Guarantors to comply with financial
    covenants, including, but not limited to, generating a minimum
    EBITDA for a period of time and, thereafter, ratios of EBITDA to
    interest expense and total indebtedness to EBITDA, as well as
    maximum annual capital expenditures. The Macao Credit Facility
    also contains events of default customary for such financings.

Ferry
    Financing

Subsequent to year-end, the Company entered into a
    1.21 billion Hong Kong dollar (approximately
    $155.0 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2007) secured credit facility to finance
    the purchase of ten ferries. The proceeds from the secured
    credit facility will be used to reimburse the Company for cash
    spent to date on construction of the ferries and to finance the
    progress payments on those ferries not yet delivered from the
    manufacturer. The facility is secured by the ferries and
    guaranteed by VML.

Singapore
    Related Debt

MBS entered into the Singapore bridge facility in August 2006,
    as further detailed below, as bridge financing to commence
    construction of Marina Bay Sands. As the facility would mature
    in full in 2008, the Company signed the Singapore permanent
    facilities, as further detailed below, in December 2007. Upon
    closing in January 2008, a portion of the borrowings under the
    Singapore permanent facilities, as well as contributions made by
    the Company to MBS, were used to repay the outstanding balances
    on the Singapore bridge facility, and to pay fees, costs and
    expenses related to entering into the Singapore permanent
    facilities agreement. As a result of the closing of the
    permanent financing in January 2008, the Singapore bridge
    facility balances outstanding as of December 31, 2007, have
    been classified as long-term in accordance with terms of the
    permanent facility.

Singapore
    Bridge Facility

On August 18, 2006, MBS entered into agreements (together,
    the “Singapore Bridge Facility”) providing for a SGD
    1.1 billion (approximately $763.6 million at exchange
    rates in effect on December 31, 2007) floating rate
    notes facility (the “Singapore Floating Rate Notes”)
    and a SGD 1.1 billion (approximately $763.6 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2007) term
    loan facility (the “Singapore Term Loan”). The
    Singapore Floating Rate Notes consist of a funded SGD
    788.6 million (approximately $545.5 million at
    exchange rates in



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

effect on December 31, 2007) facility and a SGD
    315.4 million (approximately $218.2 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2007) delayed
    draw facility. The Singapore Term Loan consists of a funded SGD
    596.0 million (approximately $412.3 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2007) facility, a SGD 315.4 million (approximately
    $218.2 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2007) delayed draw facility, and a SGD
    192.6 million (approximately $133.2 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2007) facility to provide bank guarantees for a security
    deposit required to be delivered to the STB under the
    Development Agreement. As of December 31, 2007, SGD
    1.06 billion (approximately $729.4 million at exchange
    rates in effect on December 31, 2007) has been drawn
    on the Singapore Floating Rate Notes,
    SGD 859.9 million (approximately $594.4 million
    at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2007) has
    been drawn on the Singapore Term Loan, and SGD
    192.6 million (approximately $133.2 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2007) under
    the Singapore Term Loan has been committed to provide a
    guarantee for a security deposit required to be delivered to the
    STB under the Development Agreement.

The indebtedness under the Singapore Floating Rate Notes is
    guaranteed by LVSC on an unsecured basis and the indebtedness
    under the Singapore Term Loan is collateralized by a
    first-priority security interest in substantially all of
    MBS’ assets, other than capital stock and certain other
    assets.

Borrowings under both the Singapore Floating Rate Notes and the
    Singapore Term Loan bear interest at the Singapore SWAP Offer
    Rate plus a spread of 1.35% per annum during the first twelve
    months that amounts are outstanding under such facilities and a
    spread of 1.60% per annum during the second twelve months that
    amounts are outstanding (4.1% and 3.5% on the Singapore Floating
    Rate Notes and the Singapore Term Loan, respectively, at
    December 31, 2007). MBS will also pay a standby fee of
    0.375% per annum on the undrawn amounts under the Singapore
    Bridge Facility. The Singapore Bridge Facility has a two year
    maturity and the aggregate amount outstanding matures in full on
    August 22, 2008. MBS is permitted, at its option, to redeem
    or prepay all or a portion of the outstanding Singapore Bridge
    Facility, at par, without premium or penalty, under certain
    circumstances. The weighted average interest rate on the
    Singapore Floating Rate Notes was 4.4% and 5.0% for the years
    ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The
    weighted average interest rate on the Singapore Term Loan was
    4.3% and 5.0% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and
    2006, respectively.

The Singapore Bridge Facility contains affirmative and negative
    covenants customary for such financings, including, but not
    limited to, limitations on liens, indebtedness, investments,
    acquisitions and asset sales, restricted payments, affiliate
    transactions and use of proceeds from the facility, as well as
    requirements to comply with applicable law and maintain adequate
    insurance.

Singapore
    Permanent Facilities

In December 2007, MBS signed a facility agreement (the
    “Singapore Permanent Facility Agreement”) providing
    for a SGD 2.0 billion (approximately $1.38 billion at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2007) term
    loan (“Singapore Permanent Facility A”) that was
    funded in January 2008, a SGD 2.75 billion (approximately
    $1.90 billion at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2007) term loan (“Singapore
    Permanent Facility B”) that is available on a delayed draw
    basis until December 31, 2010, a SGD 192.6 million
    (approximately $133.2 million at exchange rates in effect
    on December 31, 2007) banker’s guarantee facility
    (“Singapore Permanent Facility C”) to provide the
    bankers guarantees in favor of the STB required under the
    Development Agreement that was fully drawn in January 2008, and
    a SGD 500.0 million (approximately $345.9 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31,
    2007) revolving credit facility (“Singapore Permanent
    Facility D” and collectively, the “Singapore Permanent
    Facilities”) that is available until February 28, 2015.

The indebtedness under the Singapore Permanent Facility
    Agreement is collateralized by a first-priority security
    interest in substantially all of MBS’s assets, other than
    capital stock and similar ownership interests, certain
    furniture, fixtures, fittings and equipment and certain other
    excluded assets.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Singapore Permanent Facilities mature on March 31,
    2015, with MBS required to repay or prepay the Singapore
    Permanent Facilities under certain circumstances. Commencing
    March 31, 2011, and at the end of each quarter thereafter,
    MBS is required to repay the outstanding Singapore Permanent
    Facility A and Facility B loans on a pro rata basis in an
    aggregate amount equal to SGD 125.0 million (approximately
    $86.5 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2007) per quarter. In addition,
    commencing at the end of the third full quarter of operations of
    the Marina Bay Sands, MBS is required to further prepay the
    outstanding Singapore Permanent Facility A and Facility B loans
    on a pro rata basis with a percentage of excess free cash flow
    (as defined by the Singapore Permanent Facility Agreement).

Borrowings under the Singapore Permanent Facilities will bear
    interest at the Singapore SWAP Offer Rate plus a spread of 2.25%
    per annum. MBS will pay a standby interest fee of 1.125% per
    annum and 0.90% per annum on the undrawn amounts under Singapore
    Permanent Facility B and Facility D, respectively. MBS will pay
    a commission of 2.25% per annum on the bankers’ guarantees
    outstanding under the Singapore Permanent Facilities for the
    period during which any banker’s guarantees are outstanding.

The Singapore Permanent Facility Agreement contains affirmative
    and negative covenants customary for such financings, including,
    but not limited to, limitations on liens, annual capital
    expenditures other than project costs, indebtedness, loans and
    guarantees, investments, acquisitions and asset sales,
    restricted payments, affiliate transactions and use of proceeds
    from the facilities. The Singapore Permanent Facility Agreement
    also requires MBS to comply with financial covenants as of the
    end of the first full quarter beginning not less than
    183 days after the commencement of operations of the Marina
    Bay Sands, including maximum ratios of total indebtedness to
    EBITDA, minimum ratios of EBITDA to interest expense, minimum
    EBITDA requirements and positive net worth. The Singapore
    Permanent Facility Agreement also contains events of default
    customary for such financings.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Cash
    Flows from Financing Activities

Cash flows from financing activities related to long-term debt
    are as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Proceeds from New Senior Secured Credit Facility —
    Term B

$

3,000,000

$

—

$

—

Proceeds from Macao Credit Facility

1,551,000

1,350,000

—

Proceeds from Singapore Bridge Facility

339,788

892,076

—

Proceeds from airplane financings

92,250

—

—

Proceeds from senior secured credit facility — revolver

62,000

254,129

31,000

Proceeds from The Shoppes at The Palazzo construction loan

52,000

86,000

28,500

Proceeds from FF&E financings and other long-term debt

38,038

37,790

—

Proceeds from 6.375% Senior Notes, net of discount

—

—

247,722

Proceeds from senior secured credit facility — term B
    and term B delayed

—

—

505,000

$

5,135,076

$

2,619,995

$

812,222

Repayments on senior secured credit facility — term B
    and term B delayed

$

(1,170,000

)

$

—

$

—

Repayments on senior secured credit facility — revolver

(322,128

)

(25,000

)

—

Repayments on The Shoppes at The Palazzo construction loan

(166,500

)

—

—

Repayments on The Sands Expo Center mortgage loan

(90,868

)

(4,733

)

(3,687

)

Repayments on New Senior Secured Credit Facility —
    Term B

(15,000

)

—

—

Repayments on FF&E financings and other long-term debt

(8,539

)

(3,013

)

(1,800

)

Repayments on airplane financings

(2,766

)

—

—

Repayments on Venetian Intermediate credit facility

—

(50,000

)

—

Repayments on Macao Credit Facility

—

(50,000

)

—

Repayments on 11% mortgage notes

—

—

(843,640

)

Repayments on Venetian Macao Limited senior secured
    notes — tranches A and B

—

—

(120,000

)

$

(1,775,801

)

$

(132,746

)

$

(969,127

)



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Scheduled
    Maturities of Long-Term Debt

Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31,
    2007, are summarized as follows (in thousands):


$

54,333


97,749


110,935


1,061,180


1,594,927

Thereafter

4,654,826

$

7,573,950

Fair
    Values of Long-Term Debt

The fair value of the Senior Notes as of December 31, 2007
    and 2006, was $232.5 million and $243.4 million,
    respectively. The fair value of the Senior Notes is based on
    quoted market prices. The fair values of other indebtedness
    approximate their respective carrying amounts based on the
    nature of these variable interest rate facilities. The fair
    values of the interest rate cap agreements are based upon quotes
    from brokers which were $0.1 million and $0.6 million
    as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Note 9 —
    Income Taxes

The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows
    (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Federal:

Current

$

36,850

$

58,329

$

1,627

Deferred

(15,383

)

3,914

2,623

Foreign:

Current


—

—

Deferred

(171

)

—

—

Total income tax provision

$

21,591

$

62,243

$

4,250

The reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate and
    the Company’s effective tax rate is as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Statutory federal income tax rate

35.00

%

35.00

%

35.00

%

Increase (decrease) in tax rate resulting from:

Foreign and U.S. tax rate differential

(20.57

)%

(16.41

)%

(23.14

)%

Tax exempt income of foreign subsidiary (Macao)

(36.56

)%

(10.20

)%

(14.07

)%

Non-deductible pre-opening expenses of foreign subsidiaries

11.59

%

—

—

Change in valuation allowance

21.16

%

1.26

%

2.61

%

Change in tax reserve

3.03

%

0.27

%

0.57

%

Other, net

1.96

%

2.42

%

0.51

%

Effective tax rate

15.61

%

12.34

%

1.48

%



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The effective tax rate for the year was significantly lower than
    the federal statutory rate due primarily to a zero effective tax
    rate on our Macao net income as a result of an income tax
    exemption in Macao on gaming operations, which is set to expire
    at the end of 2008. Based on Macanese law and the treatment of
    other gaming operators, the Company believes the income tax
    exemption will be extended for an additional five-year term. Had
    the Company been required to pay income taxes in Macao,
    consolidated net income would have been reduced by
    $43.9 million and $45.2 million, and diluted earning
    per share would have been reduced by $0.12 per share for each of
    the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Consolidated income before taxes for domestic and international
    operations is as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Domestic

$

15,590

$

162,592

$

3,271

International

122,689

341,654

284,665

Total

$

138,279

$

504,246

$

287,936

The primary tax affected components of the Company’s net
    deferred tax assets are as follows (in thousands):

At December 31,



Deferred tax assets

Bad debt reserve

$

10,926

$

12,170

Accrued expenses

6,800

7,314

Deferred gain on the sale of The Grand Canal Shops

59,303

60,945

Other

7,434

4,712

Pre-opening expenses of foreign subsidiaries

12,522

—

Net operating loss carryforward of foreign subsidiaries

33,970

23,582

Less — valuation allowance

(46,343

)

(23,582

)

Total deferred tax assets

84,612

85,141

Deferred tax liabilities

Property and equipment

(50,559

)

(67,807

)

Prepaid expenses

(3,135

)

(1,970

)

Total deferred tax liabilities

(53,694

)

(69,777

)

Net deferred tax asset

$

30,918

$

15,364

The Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48 on
    January 1, 2007. As a result of the implementation of
    FIN No. 48, the Company recognized a $4.1 million
    increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which
    was accounted for as a reduction to opening retained earnings.
    At the adoption date of January 1, 2007, the



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Company had $8.6 million of unrecognized tax benefits. A
    reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of
    unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in thousands):

Balance as of January 1, 2007

$

8,552

Tax positions related to the current year:

Additions

4,205

Tax positions related to the prior year:

Additions

2,209

Balance as of December 31, 2007

$

14,966

Included in the balance at December 31, 2007, are
    $9.8 million of uncertain tax benefits that would affect
    the effective income tax rate if recognized.

The Company files income tax returns in the U.S., various states
    and foreign jurisdictions. The Company is subject to federal,
    state and local, or foreign income tax examinations by tax
    authorities for years after 2003. The Company is not presently
    under examination by any major tax jurisdiction.

The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related
    to unrecognized tax positions in the provision for income taxes
    on the statement of operations. At January 1, 2007, the
    date of adoption, the Company did not accrue any significant
    interest or penalties. The Company had approximately
    $0.6 million of interest accrued at December 31, 2007.
    No penalties were accrued for at December 31, 2007. The
    Company does not expect a significant increase or decrease in
    unrecognized tax benefits over the next twelve months.

Operating loss carryforwards of the Company’s foreign
    subsidiaries were $282.2 million and $195.2 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, which begin to expire in 2008. At
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, there was a valuation allowance
    of $46.3 million and $23.6 million, respectively,
    provided on the foreign net operating loss carryforwards and
    other foreign deferred tax assets because management believes
    these assets do not meet the “more likely than not”
    criteria for recognition under SFAS No. 109.
    Management believes all other deferred tax assets are more
    likely than not to be realized because of the future reversal of
    existing taxable temporary differences and expected future
    taxable income. Accordingly, there are no other valuation
    allowances provided at December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries are accounted for as a
    temporary difference, except that deferred tax liabilities are
    not recorded for undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries
    that are deemed to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign
    jurisdictions. The Company has a plan for reinvestment of
    undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries which
    demonstrates that such earnings will be indefinitely reinvested
    in the applicable jurisdictions. Should the Company change its
    plans, it would be required to record a significant amount of
    deferred tax liabilities. For the years ended December 31,
    2007 and 2006, the amount of undistributed earnings of foreign
    subsidiaries that the Company does not intend to repatriate was
    $837.2 million and $719.1 million, respectively.
    Should these earnings be distributed in the form of dividends or
    otherwise, the distributions would be subject to
    U.S. federal income tax at the statutory rate of 35%, less
    foreign tax credits applicable to distributions, if any. In
    addition, such distributions would be subject to withholding
    taxes in the various tax jurisdictions.

Note 10 —
    Mall Sale

The
    Grand Canal Shops at The Venetian

On April 12, 2004, the Company entered into an agreement to
    sell The Grand Canal Shops and lease certain restaurant and
    other retail space at the casino level of The Venetian (the
    “Master Lease”) to GGP for approximately
    $766.0 million (the “Mall Sale”). The Mall Sale
    closed on May 17, 2004 and the Company realized a gain of
    $417.6 million in connection with the Mall Sale. Under the
    Master Lease agreement, The Venetian leased nineteen spaces on
    the casino level of The Venetian currently occupied by various
    tenants to GGP for 89 years with annual



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

rent of one dollar per year and GGP assumed the various leases.
    Under generally accepted accounting principles, the Master Lease
    agreement does not qualify as a sale of the related assets,
    which were not separately legally demised. Accordingly,
    $109.2 million of the transaction has been deferred as
    prepaid operating lease payments to The Venetian, which will
    amortize into income on a straight-line basis over the

89-year

lease term. During each of the years ended December 31,
    2007, 2006 and 2005, $1.2 million of this deferred item was
    amortized and is included in convention, retail and other
    revenue. In addition, the Company agreed with GGP to:
    (i) continue to be obligated to fulfill certain lease
    termination and asset purchase agreements as further described
    in Note 11 — Commitments and
    Contingencies — Other Ventures and Commitments;
    (ii) lease the Blue Man Group Theater space located within
    The Grand Canal Shops from GGP for a period of 25 years
    with fixed minimum rent of $3.3 million per year with cost
    of living adjustments; (iii) operate the Gondola ride under
    an operating agreement for a period of 25 years for an
    annual fee of $3.5 million; and (iv) lease certain
    office space from GGP for a period of 10 years, subject to
    extension options for a period of up to 65 years, with
    annual rent of approximately $0.9 million. The lease
    payments under clauses (ii) through (iv) above are
    subject to automatic increases beginning on the sixth lease
    year. The net present value of the lease payments under
    clauses (ii) through (iv) is $77.2 million. Under
    generally accepted accounting principles, a portion of the
    transaction must be deferred in an amount equal to the present
    value of the minimum lease payments set forth in the lease back
    agreements. This deferred gain will be amortized to reduce lease
    expense on a straight-line basis over the life of the leases.
    $3.5 million of this deferred item was amortized during
    each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    and was included as an offset to convention, retail and other
    expense.

As of December 31, 2007, the Company was obligated under
    (ii), (iii), and (iv) above to make future payments as
    follows (in thousands):


$

7,660


7,884


8,043


8,043


8,043

Thereafter

129,567

$

169,240

The
    Shoppes at The Palazzo

The Shoppes at The Palazzo opened on January 18, 2008, with
    some tenants not yet open. The Company is selling The Shoppes at
    The Palazzo to GGP pursuant to a purchase and sale agreement
    dated as of April 12, 2004, as amended, regarding the
    development and sale of The Shoppes at The Palazzo (the
    “Amended Agreement”). The total purchase price to be
    paid by GGP for The Shoppes at The Palazzo is determined by
    taking The Shoppes at The Palazzo’s net operating income,
    as defined in the Amended Agreement, for months 19 through 30 of
    its operations (assuming that the rent and other periodic
    payments due from all tenants in month 30 was actually due in
    each of months 19 through 30) divided by a capitalization
    rate. The capitalization rate is 0.06 for every dollar of net
    operating income up to $38.0 million and 0.08 for every
    dollar of net operating income above $38.0 million. On the
    closing date of the sale of The Shoppes at The Palazzo to GGP,
    which the Company expects to be on February 29, 2008, or
    shortly thereafter, GGP will be obligated to make an initial
    purchase price payment based on projected net operating income
    for the first 12 months of operations (but in no event less
    than $250.0 million and only taking into account tenants
    open for business or paying rent as of the closing date). The
    Company is in the process of finalizing the amount of the
    initial payment; however, the Company expects it to range
    between $285.0 million and $295.0 million. Pursuant to
    the Amended Agreement, at the fourth, eighth, 12th, 18th, and
    24th month after closing, the required purchase price will
    be adjusted (up or down, but will never be less than
    $250.0 million) based on projected net operating income for
    the upcoming 12 months. Subject to adjustments for certain
    audit and other



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

issues, the final adjustment to the purchase price will be made
    on the

30-month

anniversary of the closing date and will be based on the formula
    described above. For all purchase price and purchase price
    adjustment calculations, “net operating income” will
    be calculated by using the “accrual” method of
    accounting and the final purchase price adjustment will be
    calculated by applying the base rent and other periodic payments
    payable by all tenants in the 30th month to the entire

12-month

period, as defined. Based on the Company’s continuing
    relationship with GGP related to its ownership of The Grand
    Canal Shops, knowledge of local market conditions and
    discussions with tenants, management believes the total purchase
    price to be paid by GGP will be in excess of $700.0 million.

Note 11 —
    Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

The Company is involved in other litigation in addition to those
    noted below, arising in the normal course of business.
    Management has made certain estimates for potential litigation
    costs based upon consultation with legal counsel. Actual results
    could differ from these estimates; however, in the opinion of
    management, such litigation and claims will not have a material
    effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

The
    Palazzo Construction Litigation

Lido Casino Resort, LLC (“Lido”), formerly a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and now merged into
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (“VCR”), and its
    construction manager, Taylor International Corp.
    (“Taylor”), filed suit in March 2006 in the United
    States District Court for the District of Nevada (the
    “District Court”) against Malcolm Drilling Company,
    Inc. (“Malcolm”), the contractor on The Palazzo
    project responsible for completing certain foundation work (the
    “District Court Case”). Lido and Taylor claim in the
    District Court Case that Malcolm was in default of its contract
    for performing defective work, failing to correct defective
    work, failing to complete its work and causing delay to the
    project. Malcolm responded by filing a Notice of a Lien with the
    Clerk of Clark County, Nevada in March 2006 in the amount of
    approximately $19.0 million (the “Lien”). In
    April 2006, Lido and Taylor moved in the District Court Case to
    strike or, in the alternative, to reduce the amount of, the
    Lien, claiming, among other things, that the Lien was excessive
    for including claims for disruption and delay, which Lido and
    Taylor claim are not lienable under Nevada law (the “Lien
    Motion”). Malcolm responded in April 2006 by filing a
    complaint against Lido and Taylor in District Court of Clark
    County, Nevada seeking to foreclose on the Lien against Taylor,
    claiming breach of contract, a cardinal change in the underlying
    contract, unjust enrichment against Lido and Taylor and bad
    faith and fraud against Taylor (the “State Court
    Case”), and simultaneously filed a motion in the District
    Court Case, seeking to dismiss the District Court Case on
    abstention grounds (the “Abstention Motion”). In
    response, in June 2006, Lido filed a motion to dismiss the State
    Court Case based on the principle of the “prior
    pending” District Court Case (the “Motion to
    Dismiss”). In June 2006, the Abstention Motion was granted
    in part by the United States District Court, the District Court
    Case was stayed pending the outcome of the Motion to Dismiss in
    the State Court Case and the Lien Motion was denied without
    prejudice. In January 2008, the parties agreed to the dismissal
    of the District Court Case without prejudice. Prior to agreeing
    on that dismissal, Lido and Malcolm entered into a stipulation
    under which Lido withdrew the Motion to Dismiss, and in July
    2006 filed a replacement lien motion in the State Court Case.
    The lien motion in the State Court Case was denied in August
    2006 and Lido and Taylor filed a permitted interlocutory notice
    of appeal to the Supreme Court of Nevada in September 2006. In
    April 2007, Malcolm filed an Amended Notice of Lien with the
    Clerk of Clark County, Nevada in the amount of approximately
    $16.7 million plus interest, costs and attorney’s
    fees. In August 2007, Malcolm filed a motion for partial summary
    judgment, seeking the dismissal of the counterclaim filed in the
    State Court Case by Lido to the extent the claim sought lost
    profits. After argument, the motion for partial summary judgment
    was denied without prejudice on October 23, 2007 and a
    conforming order was entered in December 2007. The parties have
    agreed to complete limited additional discovery by the end of
    February 2008. Argument on the appeal of the denial of the lien
    motion in the State Court has been scheduled by the Supreme
    Court for March 2008 and an initial trial call of the State
    Court Case also has been scheduled for March 2008. In January
    2008, Malcolm filed a series of



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

three motions and again sought summary judgment on the
    counterclaim filed in the State Court Case. Based upon the
    advice of legal counsel, management has determined that based on
    proceedings to date, an adverse outcome is not probable. Lido
    intends to defend itself against the claims pending in the State
    Court Case.

Litigation
    Relating to Macao Operations

On October 15, 2004, Richard Suen and Round Square Company
    Limited filed an action against Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (“LVSC”), Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Sheldon G. Adelson
    and William P. Weidner in the District Court of Clark County,
    Nevada, asserting a breach of an alleged agreement to pay a
    success fee of $5.0 million and 2.0% of the net profit from
    the Company’s Macao resort operations to the plaintiffs as
    well as other related claims. In March 2005, LVSC was dismissed
    as a party without prejudice based on a stipulation to do so
    between the parties. On May 17, 2005, the plaintiffs filed
    their first amended complaint. On February 2, 2006,
    defendants filed a motion for partial summary judgment with
    respect to plaintiffs’ fraud claims against all the
    defendants. On March 16, 2006, an order was filed by the
    court granting defendants’ motion for partial summary
    judgment. Pursuant to the order filed March 16, 2006,
    plaintiffs’ fraud claims set forth in the first amended
    complaint were dismissed with prejudice as against all
    defendants. The order also dismissed with prejudice the first
    amended complaint against defendants Sheldon G. Adelson and
    William P. Weidner. This action is currently set for trial in
    April 2008. Based upon the advice of legal counsel, management
    believes that the plaintiff’s case against the Company is
    without merit. The Company intends to defend this matter
    vigorously.

On January 26, 2006, Clive Basset Jones, Darryl Steven
    Turok (a/k/a Dax Turok) and Cheong Jose Vai Chi

(a/k/a

Cliff
    Cheong), filed an action against LVSC, Las Vegas Sands, LLC,
    Venetian Venture Development, LLC and various unspecified
    individuals and companies in the District Court of Clark County,
    Nevada. The plaintiffs assert breach of an agreement to pay a
    success fee in an amount equal to 5% of the ownership interest
    in the entity that owns and operates the Macao gaming
    subconcession as well as other related claims. In April 2006,
    LVSC was dismissed as a party without prejudice based on a
    stipulation to do so between the parties. Discovery has begun in
    this matter and the case is currently set for trial in December
    2008. Based upon the advice of legal counsel, management
    believes that the plaintiff’s case against the Company is
    without merit. The Company intends to defend this matter
    vigorously.

On February 5, 2007, Asian American Entertainment
    Corporation, Limited (“AAEC”) filed an action against
    Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (“LVSI”), VCR, Venetian Venture
    Development, LLC (“Venetian Venture Development”),
    William P. Weidner and David Friedman in the United States
    District Court for the District of Nevada. The plaintiffs assert
    breach of contract by LVSI, VCR and Venetian Venture Development
    of an agreement under which AAEC would work to obtain a gaming
    license in Macao and, if successful, AAEC would jointly operate
    a casino, hotel and related facilities in Macao with Venetian
    Venture Development and Venetian Venture Development would
    receive fees and a minority equity interest in the venture and
    breach of fiduciary duties by all of the defendants. The
    plaintiffs have requested an unspecified amount of actual,
    compensatory and punitive damages, and disgorgement of profits
    related to our Macao gaming license. The Company filed a motion
    to dismiss on July 11, 2007. On August 1, 2007, the
    Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint
    against all defendants without prejudice. The plaintiffs have
    appealed this decision. Based upon the advice of legal counsel,
    management believes that the plaintiff’s case against the
    Company is without merit.  The Company intends to defend this
    matter vigorously.

Macao
    Concession and Subconcession

On June 26, 2002, the Macao government granted a concession
    to operate casinos in Macao through June 26, 2022, subject
    to certain qualifications, to Galaxy Casino Company Limited
    (“Galaxy”), a consortium of Macao and Hong Kong-based
    investors. During December 2002, VML and Galaxy entered into a
    subconcession agreement which was recognized and approved by the
    Macao government and allows VML to develop and operate casino



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

projects, including the Sands Macao, separately from Galaxy.
    Beginning on December 26, 2017, the Macao government may
    redeem the subconcession agreement by providing the Company at
    least one year prior notice.

Under the subconcession, the Company is obligated to pay to the
    Macao government an annual premium with a fixed portion and a
    variable portion based on the number and type of gaming tables
    it employs and gaming machines it operates. The fixed portion of
    the premium is equal to 30.0 million patacas (approximately
    $3.7 million at exchange rates in effect on
    December 31, 2007). The variable portion is equal to
    300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for
    certain kinds of games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming
    table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical or
    mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines
    (approximately $37,314, $18,657 and $124, respectively, at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2007), subject to
    a minimum of 45.0 million patacas (or $5.6 million at
    exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2007). The Company
    is also obligated to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross
    gaming revenues and applicable withholding taxes. The Company
    must also contribute 4% of its gross gaming revenue to utilities
    designated by the Macao government, a portion of which must be
    used for promotion of tourism in Macao. As of December 31,
    2007, the Company was obligated under its subconcession to make
    minimum future payments of approximately $35.2 million in
    each of the next five years and approximately
    $334.3 million thereafter through June 2022. These amounts
    are expected to increase substantially as the Company completes
    the other Cotai Strip properties, which are planned to have
    approximately 2,100 table games and approximately 9,500 slot
    machines in total.

Currently, the gaming tax in Macao is calculated as a percentage
    of gross gaming revenue. However, unlike Nevada, gross gaming
    revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a
    result, if the Company extends credit to its customers in Macao
    and is unable to collect on the related receivables, the Company
    must pay taxes on its winnings from these customers even though
    it was unable to collect on the related receivables. If the laws
    are not changed, the Company’s business in Macao may not be
    able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to its
    customers. Although there are proposals to revise the gaming tax
    laws in Macao, there can be no assurance that the laws will be
    changed.

Singapore
    Development Project

On August 23, 2006, the Company entered into the
    Development Agreement, which requires it to construct and
    operate the Marina Bay Sands in accordance with the
    Company’s proposal for this integrated resort and in
    accordance with that agreement. Although construction has
    started, the Company is continuing to work with the Singapore
    government to finalize various design aspects of the integrated
    resort and is in the process of finalizing its cost estimates
    for the project. The cost to design, develop and construct the
    Marina Bay Sands is expected to be in excess of
    $4.0 billion, which is inclusive of the land premium, taxes
    and other fees previously paid. As discussed in
    “— Note 8 — Long-Term
    Debt — Singapore Related Debt — Singapore
    Permanent Facilities,” the Company entered into the SGD
    5.44 billion (approximately $3.76 billion at exchange
    rates in effect in December 31, 2007) Singapore
    Permanent Facilities to fund the construction, operating and
    other development costs of the Marina Bay Sands.

Leases

Energy
    Services Agreements

During 1997, VCR, Interface Group-Nevada Inc.
    (“Interface”) and others entered into separate energy
    service agreements with a heating, ventilation and air
    conditioning (“HVAC”) provider (the “HVAC
    Provider”). Under the terms of the energy services
    agreement and other separate energy services agreements, HVAC
    energy and services will be purchased by VCR, Interface and
    others over initial terms expiring in 2009 with an option to
    collectively extend the terms of their agreements for two
    consecutive five-year periods. The HVAC plant was constructed on
    land owned by the Company and leased to the HVAC Provider. The
    HVAC equipment is owned by the HVAC Provider, which paid all
    costs (“HVAC Costs”) in connection with the purchase
    and installation of the HVAC equipment. The total HVAC Costs
    were $70.0 million. The charges payable under the separate
    energy services



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

agreements include a fixed component applied to the HVAC Costs
    paid by the HVAC Provider, reimbursement of operational and
    related costs and a management fee.

As of December 31, 2007, VCR and Interface were obligated
    under the energy services agreements to make future minimum
    payments of $6.8 million and $5.1 million during the
    years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively.
    Expenses incurred under the energy services agreements were
    $6.8 million for each of the three years ended
    December 31, 2007.

Operating
    Lease Agreements

The Company leases real estate and various equipment under
    operating lease arrangements and is also party to several
    service agreements with terms in excess of one year.

At December 31, 2007, the Company was obligated under
    non-cancelable operating leases to make future minimum lease
    payments as follows (in thousands):


$

6,399


4,440


4,070


13,474


2,432

Thereafter

109,500

Total minimum payments

$

140,315

Expenses incurred under these operating lease agreements totaled
    $12.2 million, $8.3 million and $7.0 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

The Company is party to other operating lease agreements, which
    are short-term and variable-rate in nature. Expenses incurred
    under these operating lease agreements totaled
    $2.1 million, $1.5 million and $1.6 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

Other
    Ventures and Commitments

The Company has entered into employment agreements with five of
    the Company’s senior executives, with remaining terms of
    two years. As of December 31, 2007, the Company was
    obligated to make future payments of $8.0 million and
    $7.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2008
    and 2009, respectively.

During 2003, the Company entered into three lease termination
    and asset purchase agreements with The Grand Canal Shops
    tenants. In each case, the Company has obtained title to
    leasehold improvements and other fixed assets, which were
    originally purchased by The Grand Canal Shops tenants, and which
    have been recorded at estimated fair market value, which
    approximated the discounted present value of the Company’s
    obligation to the former tenants. As of December 31, 2007,
    the Company was obligated under these agreements to make future
    payments of $0.7 million for each of the next five years
    and $7.4 million thereafter.

During 2006, the Company entered into agreements to purchase ten
    ferries to be built for our Macao operations. The total
    remaining payments related to the construction of the ferries as
    of December 31, 2007, was $28.7 million. Subsequent to
    year-end, the Company agreed to purchase an additional four
    ferries.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The
    Grand Canal Shops at The Venetian Macao

The Company leases mall space in The Grand Canal Shops at The
    Venetian Macao to various retailers. These leases are
    non-cancellable operating leases with lease periods that vary
    from 6 months to 10 years. The leases include minimum
    base rents with escalated contingent rent clauses. At
    December 31, 2007, the minimum future rentals on these
    non-cancelable leases are as follows (in thousands, at exchange
    rates in effect at December 31, 2007):


$

102,731


104,196


93,644


59,667


52,642

Thereafter

90,231

Total minimum future rentals

$

503,111

The total minimum future rentals does not include the escalated
    contingent rent clauses. Contingent rentals amounted to
    $0.3 million for the period August 27, 2007 to
    December 31, 2007.

Note 12 —
    Stock-Based Employee Compensation

The Company has two nonqualified stock option plans, the 1997
    Plan and the 2004 Plan, which are described below. The plans
    provide for the granting of stock options pursuant to the
    applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and
    regulations.

LVSLLC
    1997 Fixed Stock Option Plan

The 1997 Plan provides for 19,952,457 shares (on a
    post-split basis) of common stock of LVSLLC to be reserved for
    issuance to officers and other key employees or consultants of
    LVSLLC or any LVSLLC Affiliates or Subsidiaries (each as defined
    in the 1997 Plan) pursuant to options granted under the 1997
    Plan.

The 1997 Plan provides that the Principal Stockholder may, at
    any time, assume the 1997 Plan or certain obligations under the
    1997 Plan, in which case the Principal Stockholder will have all
    the rights, powers and responsibilities granted LVSLLC or its
    board of directors under the 1997 Plan with respect to such
    assumed obligations. The Principal Stockholder assumed
    LVSLLC’s obligations under the 1997 Plan to sell shares to
    optionees upon the exercise of their options with respect to
    options granted prior to July 15, 2004. LVSLLC is
    responsible for all other obligations under the 1997 Plan. LVSC
    assumed all of the obligations of LVSLLC and the Principal
    Stockholder under the 1997 Plan (other than the obligation of
    the Principal Stockholder to issue 984,321 shares under
    options granted prior to July 15, 2004), in connection with
    its initial public offering.

The Board of Directors agreed not to grant any additional stock
    options under the 1997 Plan following the initial public
    offering and there were no options outstanding under it during
    the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The total
    intrinsic value of options exercised under the 1997 Plan during
    the year ended December 31, 2005, was $38.2 million.

Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan

The Company adopted the 2004 Plan for grants of options to
    purchase its common stock. The purpose of the 2004 Plan is to
    give the Company a competitive edge in attracting, retaining,
    and motivating employees, directors and consultants and to
    provide the Company with a stock plan providing incentives
    directly related to increases in its stockholder value. Any of
    the Company’s subsidiaries’ or affiliates’
    employees, directors or officers and many of its consultants are
    eligible for awards under the 2004 Plan. The 2004 Plan provides
    for an aggregate of



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

26,344,000 shares of the Company’s common stock to be
    available for awards. The 2004 Plan has a term of ten years and
    no further awards may be granted after the expiration of the
    term. The compensation committee may grant awards of
    nonqualified stock options, incentive (qualified) stock options,
    stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted
    stock units, stock bonus awards, performance compensation awards
    or any combination of the foregoing. As of December 31,
    2007, there were 18,307,565 shares available for grant
    under the 2004 Plan.

Stock option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to
    the fair market value (as defined in the 2004 Plan) of the
    Company’s stock on the date of grant. The outstanding stock
    options generally vest over four years and have

10-year

contractual terms. Compensation cost for all stock option
    grants, which all have graded vesting, is net of estimated
    forfeitures and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the
    awards’ respective requisite service periods. The Company
    estimates the fair value of stock options using the
    Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Expected volatilities are
    based on the historical volatilities from a selection of
    companies from the Company’s peer group due to the
    Company’s lack of historical information. The Company used
    the simplified method for estimating expected option life, as
    the options qualify as “plain-vanilla” options. The
    risk-free interest rate for periods equal to the expected term
    of the stock option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield
    curve in effect at the time of grant.

The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the grant
    date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
    following weighted average assumptions:




Weighted average volatility

30.60

%

31.25

%

31.45

%

Expected term (in years)

6.0

6.0

6.0

Risk-free rate

4.51

%

4.54

%

4.14

%

Expected dividends

—

—

—

A summary of the status of the Company’s 2004 Plan for the
    year ended December 31, 2007, is presented below:

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Remaining

Aggregate

Exercise

Contractual

Intrinsic

Shares

Price

Life (Years)

Value

Outstanding at January 1, 2007

4,575,502

$

45.61

Granted

3,323,373

83.13

Exercised

(727,692

)

41.53

Forfeited

(245,126

)

50.88

Outstanding at December 31, 2007

6,926,057

$

63.85

8.58

$

271,501,434

Exercisable at December 31, 2007

528,627

$

39.99

7.49

$

33,335,219



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Restricted
    Stock Awards

A summary of the status of the Company’s nonvested
    restricted shares for the year ended December 31, 2007, is
    presented below:

Weighted Average

Grant Date

Shares

Fair Value

Nonvested at January 1, 2007

71,960

$

44.12

Granted

50,926

86.56

Vested

(26,959

)

46.67

Nonvested at December 31, 2007

95,927

$

65.93

As of December 31, 2007, there was $113.7 million of
    unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures of
    8.0%, related to nonvested stock options and there was
    $4.1 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to
    nonvested restricted stock. The stock option and restricted
    stock costs are expected to be recognized over a weighted
    average period of 3.3 years and 1.7 years,
    respectively.

The stock-based compensation activity for the 2004 Plan is as
    follows for the three years ended December 31, 2007 (in
    thousands, except weighted average grant date fair values):

Year Ended December 31,




(1)

Compensation expense:

Stock options

$

30,845

$

13,470

$

—

Restricted shares

2,379

1,258

—

$

33,224

$

14,728

$

—

Income tax benefit recognized in the consolidated statement of
    operations

$

8,155

$

3,618

$

—

Compensation cost capitalized as part of property and equipment

$

3,478

$

2,090

$

—

Stock options granted

3,323

3,164


Weighted average grant date fair value

$

32.60

$

21.24

$

13.87

Stock options exercised:

Intrinsic value

$

44,463

$

10,299

$


Cash received

$

30,221

$

7,226

$

—

Tax benefit realized for tax deductions from stock-based
    compensation

$

7,526

$

1,876

$

8,149

(1)

In accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, the Company did not
    recognize compensation expense for employee stock option awards
    for the year ended December 31, 2005 for those options
    where the exercise price of the Company’s employee stock
    awards equaled the market price of the underlying stock on the
    date of grant.

For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, basic and
    diluted earnings per share were $0.07 and $0.03 lower,
    respectively, than if the Company had continued to account for
    stock-based compensation under APB Opinion No. 25.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 13 —
    Employee Benefit Plans

The Company is self-insured for health care and workers
    compensation benefits for its U.S. employees. The liability
    for claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not filed
    is included in other accrued liabilities in the consolidated
    balance sheet.

Participation in the VCR 401(k) employee savings plan is
    available for all full-time employees after a three-month
    probation period. The savings plan allows participants to defer,
    on a pre-tax basis, a portion of their salary and accumulate
    tax-deferred earnings as a retirement fund. The Company matches
    150% of the first $390 of employee contributions and 50% of
    employee contributions in excess of $390 up to a maximum of 5%
    of participating employee’s eligible gross wages. For the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the
    Company’s matching contributions under the savings plan
    were $5.0 million, $4.5 million and $3.1 million,
    respectively.

Participation in VML’s provident retirement fund is
    available for all permanent employees after a three-month
    probation period. VML contributes 5% of each employee’s
    basic salary to the fund and the employee is eligible to receive
    30% of these contributions after working for three consecutive
    years, gradually increasing to 100% after working for ten years.
    For the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, VML’s
    contributions into the provident fund were $8.5 million and
    $4.9 million, respectively. No contributions were made
    during 2005.

Note 14 —
    Related Party Transactions

The Company paid approximately $5.9 million,
    $4.3 million and $3.0 million during the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, to a travel
    agent and charter tour operator for travel related services,
    which is controlled by the Principal Stockholder.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Principal
    Stockholder purchased certain banquet room and catering goods
    and services from The Venetian of approximately
    $1.0 million. No such goods or services were purchased
    during 2007 and 2006.

The Company purchased hotel guest amenities from a company that
    is controlled by the Principal Stockholder’s brother. The
    total amount paid was approximately $1.0 million,
    $1.2 million and $1.8 million during the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    the Company incurred and paid certain expenses totaling
    $2.0 million, $1.3 million and $0.7 million,
    respectively, to its Principal Stockholder related to the
    Company’s use of his personal aircraft for business
    purposes. In addition, during the years ended December 31,
    2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company charged and received from the
    Principal Stockholder $5.3 million, $3.3 million and
    $1.2 million, respectively, related to aviation costs
    incurred by the Company for the Principal Stockholder’s use
    of Company aviation personnel and assets for personal purposes.

Note 15 —
    Segment Information

The Company’s principal operating and developmental
    activities occur in three geographic areas: Las Vegas, Macao and
    Singapore. The Company reviews the results of operations for
    each of its key operating segments: The Venetian, which includes
    The Sands Expo Center and The Congress Center; The Palazzo;
    Sands Macao; The Venetian Macao; and Other Asia (comprised
    primarily of the ferry operations). The Company also reviews its
    construction and development activities for each of its primary
    projects: The Venetian; The Palazzo; Sands Macao; The Venetian
    Macao; The Four Seasons Macao; Other Asia (comprised of various
    other operations that are ancillary to our properties in Macao);
    Marina Bay Sands in Singapore; Other Development Projects (on
    Parcels 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Cotai Strip); and Corporate and
    Other (comprised of the airplanes and the Sands Bethworks and
    Las Vegas condominium projects). The information for the years
    ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, have been reclassified



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

to conform to the current presentation. The Company’s
    segment information is as follows for the three years ended
    December 31, 2007 (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Net Revenues

The Venetian and The Palazzo

$

984,125

$

959,700

$

844,313

Macao

Sands Macao

1,314,733

1,277,159

896,599

The Venetian Macao

650,496

—

—

Other Asia

1,213

—

—

Total net revenues

$

2,950,567

$

2,236,859

$

1,740,912

Adjusted
    EBITDAR

(1)

The Venetian and The Palazzo

$

361,076

$

373,460

$

323,549

Macao

Sands Macao

373,507

457,998

341,747

The Venetian Macao

144,417

—

—

Other Asia

(4,250

)

—

—

Total adjusted EBITDAR

874,750

831,458

665,296

Other Operating Costs and Expenses

Corporate expense

(94,514

)

(59,570

)

(38,297

)

Rental expense

(31,787

)

(13,478

)

(14,841

)

Stock-based compensation expense

(15,752

)

(7,133

)

—

Depreciation and amortization

(202,557

)

(110,771

)

(95,296

)

Loss on disposal of assets

(1,122

)

(2,624

)

(1,441

)

Pre-opening expense

(189,280

)

(37,673

)

(3,732

)

Development expense

(9,728

)

(26,112

)

(22,238

)

Operating income

330,010

574,097

489,451

Other Non-Operating Costs and Expenses

Interest income

72,464

66,191

33,111

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized

(244,808

)

(135,853

)

(96,292

)

Other expense

(8,682

)

(189

)

(1,334

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

(10,705

)

—

(137,000

)

Income before income taxes

138,279

504,246

287,936

Provision for income taxes

(21,591

)

(62,243

)

(4,250

)

Net income

$

116,688

$

442,003

$

283,686

(1)

Adjusted EBITDAR is net income before interest, income taxes,
    depreciation and amortization, pre-opening expense, development
    expense, other expense, loss on disposal of assets, loss on
    early retirement of debt, rental expense, corporate expense and
    stock-based compensation expense included in general and
    administrative expense. Adjusted EBITDAR is used by management
    as the primary measure of operating performance of its
    properties and to compare the operating performance of its
    properties with those of its competitors.



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Year Ended December 31,




Capital Expenditures

Las Vegas Sands Corp. and Other

$

129,908

$

49,506

$


Las Vegas:

The Venetian

152,207

109,119

138,015

The Palazzo

1,184,781

530,455

333,835

Macao:

Sands Macao

120,919

98,498

39,486

The Venetian Macao

970,990

954,534

347,322

The Four Seasons Macao

279,157

69,263


Other Asia

34,834



Other Development Projects

556,327

100,716


Singapore

364,580

13,157

—

Total capital expenditures

$

3,793,703

$

1,925,291

$

860,621

Year Ended December 31,



Total Assets

Las Vegas Sands Corp. and Other

$

380,646

$

209,701

Las Vegas:

The Venetian

1,771,764

1,991,566

The Palazzo

2,434,186

1,179,157

Macao:

Sands Macao

550,479

537,990

The Venetian Macao

3,158,091

2,068,225

The Four Seasons Macao

391,506

70,246

Other Asia

85,817

1,300

Other Development Projects

777,740

169,205

Singapore

1,916,288

899,068

Total consolidated assets

$

11,466,517

$

7,126,458

Note 16 —
    Condensed Consolidating Financial Information

LVSC is the obligor of the 6.375% Senior Notes due 2015
    issued by LVSC on February 10, 2005. LVSLLC, VCR, Mall
    Intermediate Holding Company, LLC, Venetian Venture Development,
    Venetian Transport, LLC, Venetian Marketing, Inc., Interface,
    Palazzo Condo Tower, LLC, Sands Pennsylvania, Inc., Lido
    Intermediate Holding Company, LLC, Lido Casino Resort Holding
    Company, LLC, Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, Phase II
    Mall Subsidiary, LLC and Lido Casino Resort, LLC, which was
    merged into VCR in March 2007 (collectively, the “Guarantor
    Subsidiaries”), have jointly and severally guaranteed the
    6.375% Senior Notes on a full and unconditional basis. In
    conjunction with entering into the New Senior Secured Credit
    Facility, LVSC, the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the trustee
    entered into a supplemental indenture related to the Senior
    Notes, whereby the following subsidiaries were included as
    guarantors: Interface, Palazzo Condo Tower, LLC, Sands
    Pennsylvania, Inc., Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, and
    Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC. As a result of the change in
    Guarantor



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Subsidiaries and non-guarantor subsidiaries, the Company has
    reclassified prior periods to conform to the current
    presentation as these are all entities under common control.

The condensed consolidating financial information of the
    Company, the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the non-guarantor
    subsidiaries on a combined basis as of December 31, 2007
    and 2006, and for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2007, is as follows (in thousands).



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS

December 31,

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Cash and cash equivalents

$

73,489

$

130,625

$

653,036

$

—

$

857,150

Restricted cash

—

5,118

227,826

—

232,944

Intercompany receivables

195,675

155,768

—

(351,443

)

—

Accounts receivable, net

1,995

113,638

71,562

—

187,195

Intercompany notes receivable

73,562

55,992

—

(129,554

)

—

Inventories


10,086

9,684

—

19,902

Deferred income taxes

1,368

30,994


—

32,471

Prepaid expenses and other

19,960

15,792

14,004

(332

)

49,424

Total current assets

366,181

518,013

976,221

(481,329

)

1,379,086

Property and equipment, net

160,524

3,775,263

4,638,827

—

8,574,614

Investment in subsidiaries

2,105,436

1,485,317

—

(3,590,753

)

—

Deferred financing costs, net

1,556

58,584

47,198

—

107,338

Restricted cash

—

—

178,824

—

178,824

Deferred income taxes

—

—

1,343

(1,343

)

—

Leasehold interest in land, net

—

—

1,069,609

—

1,069,609

Other assets, net


26,885

130,045

—

157,046

Total assets

$

2,633,813

$

5,864,062

$

7,042,067

$

(4,073,425

)

$

11,466,517

Accounts payable

$

4,881

$

49,020

$

45,121

$

—

$

99,022

Construction payables

—

169,089

548,452

—

717,541

Intercompany payables

—

125,693

225,750

(351,443

)

—

Accrued interest payable

6,350

3,320

1,795

—

11,465

Other accrued liabilities

8,141

191,103

411,668

—

610,912

Intercompany notes payable

—

—

129,554

(129,554

)

—

Income taxes payable

—

—


(332

)

—

Current maturities of long-term debt

3,688

36,141

14,504

—

54,333

Total current liabilities

23,060

574,366

1,377,176

(481,329

)

1,493,273

Other long-term liabilities

15,532

171,860

6,028

—

193,420

Deferred income taxes


2,126

—

(1,343

)

1,553

Long-term debt

334,177

3,010,274

4,173,546

—

7,517,997

Total liabilities

373,539

3,758,626

5,556,750

(482,672

)

9,206,243

Stockholders’ equity

2,260,274

2,105,436

1,485,317

(3,590,753

)

2,260,274

Total stockholders’ equity and liabilities

$

2,633,813

$

5,864,062

$

7,042,067

$

(4,073,425

)

$

11,466,517



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS

December 31,

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Cash and cash equivalents

$

69,100

$

96,219

$

302,747

$

—

$

468,066

Restricted cash

50,076

95,139

253,547

—

398,762

Intercompany receivables

170,844

49,509

—

(220,353

)

—

Accounts receivable, net


121,375

52,171

—

173,683

Intercompany notes receivable

73,154

52,736

—

(125,890

)

—

Inventories

—

10,273

2,018

—

12,291

Deferred income taxes

1,583

14,064


—

15,688

Prepaid expenses and other

1,793

8,286

14,988

—

25,067

Total current assets

366,687

447,601

625,512

(346,243

)

1,093,557

Property and equipment, net

85,758

2,437,074

2,059,493

—

4,582,325

Investment in subsidiaries

1,919,079

829,647

—

(2,748,726

)

—

Deferred financing costs, net

1,176

24,124

45,081

—

70,381

Restricted cash

—

323,668

231,464

—

555,132

Deferred income taxes

—

1,794

3,254

(5,048

)

—

Leasehold interest in land, net

—

—

809,856

—

809,856

Other assets, net


12,538

2,591

—

15,207

Total assets

$

2,372,778

$

4,076,446

$

3,777,251

$

(3,100,017

)

$

7,126,458

Accounts payable

$


$

29,038

$

21,116

$

—

$

51,038

Construction payables


75,155

253,546

—

329,375

Intercompany payables

—

44,732

175,621

(220,353

)

—

Accrued interest payable

5,977

1,442

1,077

—

8,496

Other accrued liabilities

13,231

149,390

156,280

—

318,901

Intercompany notes payable

—

—

125,890

(125,890

)

—

Income taxes payable

20,352

—

—

—

20,352

Deferred income taxes

—

—

—

—

—

Current maturities of long-term debt

—

6,486

—

—

6,486

Total current liabilities

41,118

306,243

733,530

(346,243

)

734,648

Other long-term liabilities

2,981

177,199

—

—

180,180

Deferred income taxes

5,372

—

—

(5,048

)


Long-term debt

248,153

1,673,925

2,214,074

—

4,136,152

Total liabilities

297,624

2,157,367

2,947,604

(351,291

)

5,051,304

Stockholders’ equity

2,075,154

1,919,079

829,647

(2,748,726

)

2,075,154

Total stockholders’ equity and liabilities

$

2,372,778

$

4,076,446

$

3,777,251

$

(3,100,017

)

$

7,126,458



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2007

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Revenues:

Casino

$

—

$

404,255

$

1,846,166

$

—

$

2,250,421

Rooms

—

362,404

74,953

—

437,357

Food and beverage

—

144,745

94,043

(536

)

238,252

Convention, retail and other

38,909

126,364

53,791

(40,672

)

178,392

Total revenues

38,909

1,037,768

2,068,953

(41,208

)

3,104,422

Less — promotional allowances

(1,045

)

(75,187

)

(77,623

)

—

(153,855

)

Net revenues

37,864

962,581

1,991,330

(41,208

)

2,950,567

Operating expenses:

Casino

—

195,206

1,240,858

(402

)

1,435,662

Rooms

—

82,275

11,944

—

94,219

Food and beverage

—

71,573

48,463

(1,763

)

118,273

Convention, retail and other

—

64,825

32,864

—

97,689

Provision for doubtful accounts

—

25,126

1,243

—

26,369

General and administrative

—

212,138

146,262

(39,043

)

319,357

Corporate expense

91,548


2,600

—

94,514

Rental expense

—

8,348

23,439

—

31,787

Pre-opening expense

2,282

23,510

163,488

—

189,280

Development expense

6,030

—

3,698

—

9,728

Depreciation and amortization

6,571

89,571

106,415

—

202,557

Loss on disposal of assets




—

1,122

106,936

772,991

1,781,838

(41,208

)

2,620,557

Operating income (loss)

(69,072

)

189,590

209,492

—

330,010

Other income (expense):

Interest income

9,217

41,712

28,625

(7,090

)

72,464

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized

(18,837

)

(115,438

)

(117,623

)

7,090

(244,808

)

Other expense

(6

)

(1,009

)

(7,667

)

—

(8,682

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

—

(10,705

)

—

—

(10,705

)

Income from equity investment in subsidiaries

188,785

110,579

—

(299,364

)

—

Income before income taxes

110,087

214,729

112,827

(299,364

)

138,279

Benefit (provision) for income taxes

6,601

(25,944

)

(2,248

)

—

(21,591

)

Net income

$

116,688

$

188,785

$

110,579

$

(299,364

)

$

116,688



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2006

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Revenues:

Casino

$

—

$

411,771

$

1,264,290

$

—

$

1,676,061

Rooms

—

343,995

6,611

—

350,606

Food and beverage

—

137,006

51,129

(316

)

187,819

Convention, retail and other

33,408

123,257

3,549

(34,522

)

125,692

Total revenues

33,408

1,016,029

1,325,579

(34,838

)

2,340,178

Less — promotional allowances

(625

)

(66,140

)

(36,554

)

—

(103,319

)

Net revenues

32,783

949,889

1,289,025

(34,838

)

2,236,859

Operating expenses:

Casino

—

187,431

737,839

(237

)

925,033

Rooms

—

85,420


—

85,651

Food and beverage

—

66,121

24,106

(1,114

)

89,113

Convention, retail and other

—

62,300

2,015

—

64,315

Provision for doubtful accounts

—

17,645


—

18,067

General and administrative

—

195,508

68,334

(33,487

)

230,355

Corporate expense

59,220

—


—

59,570

Rental expense

—

12,669


—

13,478

Pre-opening expense

—

1,369

36,304

—

37,673

Development expense

3,280

(35

)

22,867

—

26,112

Depreciation and amortization

2,906

67,469

40,396

—

110,771

Loss on disposal of assets

—


1,940

—

2,624

65,406

696,581

935,613

(34,838

)

1,662,762

Operating income (loss)

(32,623

)

253,308

353,412

—

574,097

Other income (expense):

Interest income

12,457

33,027

28,730

(8,023

)

66,191

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized

(16,921

)

(83,002

)

(43,953

)

8,023

(135,853

)

Other income (expense)

2,422

(570

)

(2,041

)

—

(189

)

Income from equity investment in subsidiaries

470,823

337,978

—

(808,801

)

—

Income before income taxes

436,158

540,741

336,148

(808,801

)

504,246

Benefit (provision) for income taxes

5,845

(69,918

)

1,830

—

(62,243

)

Net income

$

442,003

$

470,823

$

337,978

$

(808,801

)

$

442,003



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2005

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Revenues:

Casino

$

—

$

367,915

$

882,175

$

—

$

1,250,090

Rooms

—

318,830

4,730

—

323,560

Food and beverage

—

116,402

31,108

—

147,510

Convention, retail and other

17,909

98,879

4,186

(17,909

)

103,065

Total revenues

17,909

902,026

922,199

(17,909

)

1,824,225

Less — promotional allowances

(762

)

(56,951

)

(25,600

)

—

(83,313

)

Net revenues

17,147

845,075

896,599

(17,909

)

1,740,912

Operating expenses:

Casino

—

166,912

489,678

—

656,590

Rooms

—

81,778


—

82,058

Food and beverage

—

62,564

14,172

—

76,736

Convention, retail and other

—

54,647

3,421

—

58,068

Provision for doubtful accounts

—

9,101


—

9,358

General and administrative

—

163,515

47,200

(17,909

)

192,806

Corporate expense

38,200

—


—

38,297

Rental expense

—

14,094


—

14,841

Pre-opening expense

—


3,054

—

3,732

Development expense



21,375

—

22,238

Depreciation and amortization

2,037

67,689

25,570

—

95,296

Loss on disposal of assets

—

1,104


—

1,441

40,883

622,299

606,188

(17,909

)

1,251,461

Operating income (loss)

(23,736

)

222,776

290,411

—

489,451

Other income (expense):

Interest income

12,365

20,687

9,093

(9,034

)

33,111

Interest expense, net of amounts capitalized

(9,178

)

(82,369

)

(13,779

)

9,034

(96,292

)

Other income (expense)

—

(1,335

)


—

(1,334

)

Loss on early retirement of debt

—

(132,834

)

(4,166

)

—

(137,000

)

Income from equity investment in subsidiaries

298,967

283,211

—

(582,178

)

—

Income before income taxes

278,418

310,136

281,560

(582,178

)

287,936

Benefit (provision) for income taxes

5,268

(11,169

)

1,651

—

(4,250

)

Net income

$

283,686

$

298,967

$

283,211

$

(582,178

)

$

283,686



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2007

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

$

(135,852

)

$

211,815

$

289,494

$

—

$

365,457

Cash flows from investing activities:

Change in restricted cash

50,076

413,689

92,511

—

556,276

Capital expenditures

(88,016

)

(1,327,335

)

(2,378,352

)

—

(3,793,703

)

Acquisition of gaming license included in other assets

—

—

(50,000

)

—

(50,000

)

Repayment of receivable from Guarantor Subsidiaries

73,715

—

—

(73,715

)

—

Repayment of receivable from Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries

125,464

58,521

—

(183,985

)

—

Intercompany receivable to Guarantor Subsidiaries

(114,902

)

—

—

114,902

—

Intercompany receivable to Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries

(32,338

)

(126,513

)

—

158,851

—

Capital contributions to subsidiaries

—

(548,088

)

—

548,088

—

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

13,999

(1,529,726

)

(2,335,841

)

564,141

(3,287,427

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

30,221

—

—

—

30,221

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation

7,112

—

—

—

7,112

Capital contributions received

—

—

548,088

(548,088

)

—

Borrowings from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

114,902

32,338

(147,240

)

—

Borrowings from Guarantor Subsidiaries

—

—

126,513

(126,513

)

—

Repayment on borrowings from Guarantor Subsidiaries

—

—

(58,521

)

58,521

—

Repayment on borrowings from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

(73,715

)

(125,464

)

199,179

—

Proceeds from Macao credit facility

—

—

1,551,000

—

1,551,000

Proceeds from Singapore bridge facility

—

—

339,788

—

339,788

Proceeds from airplane financing

92,250

—

—

—

92,250

Proceeds from new senior secured credit facility-term B

—

3,000,000

—

—

3,000,000

Proceeds from senior secured credit facility-revolver

—

62,000

—

—

62,000

Proceeds from construction loan for The Shoppes at The Palazzo

—

52,000

—

—

52,000

Proceeds from FF&E financings and other long-term debt

—

23,834

14,204

—

38,038

Repayments on new senior secured credit facility-term B

—

(15,000

)

—

—

(15,000

)

Repayment on senior secured credit facility-term B and term B
    delayed

—

(1,170,000

)

—

—

(1,170,000

)

Repayment on senior secured credit facility-revolver

—

(322,128

)

—

—

(322,128

)

Repayments on airplane financing

(2,766

)

—

—

—

(2,766

)

Repayments on FF&E financings and other long-term debt

—

(7,334

)

(1,205

)

—

(8,539

)

Repayments on construction loan for The Shoppes at The Palazzo

—

(166,500

)

—

—

(166,500

)

Repayments on The Sands Expo Center mortgage loan

—

(90,868

)

—

—

(90,868

)

Payments of deferred financing costs

(575

)

(54,874

)

(18,294

)

—

(73,743

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

126,242

1,352,317

2,408,447

(564,141

)

3,322,865

Effect of exchange rate on cash

—

—

(11,811

)

—

(11,811

)

Increase in cash and cash equivalents

4,389

34,406

350,289

—

389,084

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

69,100

96,219

302,747

—

468,066

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

73,489

$

130,625

$

653,036

$

—

$

857,150



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2006

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

$

(28,167

)

$

198,931

$

(367,484

)

$

—

$

(196,720

)

Cash flows from investing activities:

Change in restricted cash

(24

)

174,001

(484,542

)

—

(310,565

)

Capital expenditures

(49,519

)

(643,338

)

(1,232,434

)

—

(1,925,291

)

Notes receivable to Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries

(115,000

)

(75,000

)

—

190,000

—

Repayment of notes receivable from Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries

165,000

25,000

—

(190,000

)

—

Intercompany receivable to Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

20,000

—

(20,000

)

—

Repayment of receivable from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

(20,000

)

—

20,000

—

Intercompany receivable to Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries

(104,464

)

(18,408

)

—

122,872

—

Capital contributions to subsidiaries

(9,549

)

(6,989

)

—

16,538

—

Net cash used in investing activities

(113,556

)

(544,734

)

(1,716,976

)

139,410

(2,235,856

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

7,226

—

—

—

7,226

Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation

1,401

—

—

—

1,401

Capital contributions received

—

9,549

6,989

(16,538

)

—

Borrowings from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

—

219,464

(219,464

)

—

Borrowings from Guarantor Subsidiaries

20,000

—

93,408

(113,408

)

—

Repayment on borrowings from Guarantor Subsidiaries

(20,000

)

—

(25,000

)

45,000

—

Repayment on borrowings from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

—

(165,000

)

165,000

—

Proceeds from Macao credit facility

—

—

1,350,000

—

1,350,000

Proceeds from Singapore bridge facility

—

—

892,076

—

892,076

Proceeds from senior secured credit facility-revolver

—

254,129

—

—

254,129

Proceeds from construction loan for The Shoppes at The Palazzo

—

86,000

—

—

86,000

Proceeds from FF&E financings and other long-term debt

—

37,715


—

37,790

Repayments on Venetian Intermediate credit facility

—

—

(50,000

)

—

(50,000

)

Repayments on Macao credit facility

—

—

(50,000

)

—

(50,000

)

Repayment on senior secured credit facility-revolver

—

(25,000

)

—

—

(25,000

)

Repayments on FF&E financings and other long-term debt

—

(2,999

)

(14

)

—

(3,013

)

Repayments on The Sands Expo Center mortgage loan

—

(4,733

)

—

—

(4,733

)

Payments of deferred financing costs

—

(2,283

)

(50,611

)

—

(52,894

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

8,627

352,378

2,221,387

(139,410

)

2,442,982

Effect of exchange rate on cash

—

—


—


Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

(133,096

)

6,575

137,741

—

11,220

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

202,196

89,644

165,006

—

456,846

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

69,100

$

96,219

$

302,747

$

—

$

468,066



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED
    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the
    year ended December 31, 2005

Consolidating/

Las Vegas

Guarantor

Non-Guarantor

Eliminating

Sands Corp.

Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries

Entries

Total

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

$

(4,102

)

$

186,823

$

407,195

$

—

$

589,916

Cash flows from investing activities:

Change in restricted cash

(50,052

)

(215,338

)


—

(265,386

)

Capital expenditures

(1,217

)

(432,152

)

(427,252

)

—

(860,621

)

Capital contributions to subsidiaries

(564,260

)

(49,220

)

—

613,480

—

Note receivable to Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries

(121,784

)

—

—

121,784

—

Intercompany payment for airplane transfer

(40,000

)

40,000

—

—

—

Net cash used in investing activities

(777,313

)

(656,710

)

(427,248

)

735,264

(1,126,007

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Transaction costs, initial public offering

(487

)

—

—

—

(487

)

Dividends paid to shareholders

—

(21,052

)

—

—

(21,052

)

Proceeds from exercise of stock options


—

—

—


Capital contributions received

—

564,260

49,220

(613,480

)

—

Borrowings from Las Vegas Sands Corp.

—

—

121,784

(121,784

)

—

Repayments on 11% mortgage notes

—

(843,640

)

—

—

(843,640

)

Proceeds from 6.375% senior note, net of discount

247,722

—

—

—

247,722

Proceeds from senior secured credit facility-term B

—

305,000

—

—

305,000

Proceeds from senior secured credit facility-term B delayed

—

200,000

—

—

200,000

Proceeds from construction loan for The Shoppes at The Palazzo

—

28,500

—

—

28,500

Repayments on Venetian Macao senior secured
    notes-tranches A and B

—

—

(120,000

)

—

(120,000

)

Proceeds from senior secured credit facility-revolver

—

31,000

—

—

31,000

Repayments on FF&E financings

—

(1,800

)

—

—

(1,800

)

Repayments on The Sands Expo Center mortgage loan

—

(3,687

)

—

—

(3,687

)

Repurchase premiums incurred in connection with refinancing
    transactions

—

(113,311

)

—

—

(113,311

)

Payments of deferred financing costs

(1,438

)

(9,838

)

—

—

(11,276

)

Net change in intercompany accounts

(7,426

)

35,895

(28,469

)

—

—

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

238,684

171,327

22,535

(735,264

)

(302,718

)

Effect of exchange rate on cash

—

—


—


Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

(542,731

)

(298,560

)

3,239

—

(838,052

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

744,927

388,204

161,767

—

1,294,898

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

202,196

$

89,644

$

165,006

$

—

$

456,846



LAS VEGAS
    SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 17 —
    Selected Quarterly Financial Results (Unaudited)

Quarter

First

Second

Third

(1)

Fourth

(2)

Total

(In thousands, except per share data)


Net revenues

$

628,218

$

612,926

$

660,950

$

1,048,473

$

2,950,567

Operating income (loss)

131,006

86,233

(20,794

)

133,565

330,010

Net income (loss)

90,914

34,398

(48,507

)

39,883

116,688

Basic earnings (loss) per share

0.26

0.10

(0.14

)

0.11

0.33

Diluted earnings (loss) per share

0.26

0.10

(0.14

)

0.11

0.33


Net revenues

$

530,364

$

517,007

$

553,228

$

636,260

$

2,236,859

Operating income

148,880

125,415

133,478

166,324

574,097

Net income

121,783

109,329

97,251

113,640

442,003

Basic earnings per share

0.34

0.31

0.27

0.32

1.25

Diluted earnings per share

0.34

0.31

0.27

0.32

1.24

(1)

The Venetian Macao opened on August 28, 2007.

(2)

The Palazzo partially opened on December 30, 2007.

Because earnings per share amounts are calculated using the
    weighted average number of common and dilutive common equivalent
    shares outstanding during each quarter, the sum of the per share
    amounts for the four quarters may not equal the total earnings
    per share amounts for the respective year.



SCHEDULE II —
    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES

For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005

Provision

Balance at

for

Write-offs,

Balance

Beginning

Doubtful

net of

at End

Description

Of Year

Accounts

Recoveries

of Year

(In thousands)

Allowance for doubtful accounts:


$

20,309

9,358

(187

)

$

29,480


$

29,480

18,067

(12,071

)

$

35,476


$

35,476

26,369

(28,729

)

$

33,116

Balance at

Balance

Beginning

at End

Description

of Year

Additions

Deductions

of Year

Deferred income tax asset valuation allowance:


$

6,175

11,211

—

$

17,386


$

17,386

6,196

—

$

23,582


$

23,582

22,761

—

$

46,343



ITEM 9. —

CHANGES
    IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
    FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A. —

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that
    information required to be disclosed in the reports that the
    Company files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the
    time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and
    that such information is accumulated and communicated to our
    management, including our principal executive officer and
    principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow for timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure. The Company’s
    Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer have
    evaluated the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Rules 13a-15(e)

and

15d-15(e))

of the Company as of December 31, 2007 and have concluded
    that they are effective to provide reasonable assurance that the
    desired control objectives were achieved.

It should be noted that any system of controls, however well
    designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not
    absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.
    In addition, the design of any control system is based in part
    upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.
    Because of these and other inherent limitations of control
    systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed
    in achieving its stated goals under all potential future
    conditions, regardless of how remote.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in the Company’s internal control
    over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter
    covered by this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
    materially affect, the Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting, other than in connection with the opening
    of The Palazzo in December 2007, we implemented controls and
    procedures at The Palazzo similar to those in effect at our
    other facilities.

Management’s
    Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting

The Company’s management is responsible for establishing
    and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
    reporting, as defined in

Rules 13a-15(f)

and

15d-15(f)

of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company’s internal
    control over financial reporting is designed to provide
    reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
    reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
    external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles. The Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:

(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
    reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
    transactions and dispositions of the Company’s assets;

(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
    recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles and that the Company’s receipts and expenditures
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of its
    management and directors; and

(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
    timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
    of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect
    on the financial statements.



Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the
    Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, the
    Company’s management used the framework set forth by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework.”

Based on this assessment, management concluded that, as of
    December 31, 2007, the Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting is effective based on this framework.

The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, has been
    audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears
    herein.

ITEM 9B. —

OTHER INFORMATION

On February 25, 2008, the Company paid supplemental bonuses
    to certain of its officers in the following amounts: William P.
    Weidner, $450,000; Bradley H. Stone, $350,000; Robert G.
    Goldstein, $295,000; Robert P. Rozek, $50,000; and Scott D.
    Henry, $155,000. These payments were made in recognition of the
    significant contributions made by these individuals to the
    Company during 2007, including in connection with the openings
    of The Venetian Macao and The Palazzo, and the continuing
    progress of the Company’s other projects, including Marina
    Bay Sands and Sands Bethworks.

PART III

ITEM 10. —

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
    GOVERNANCE

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2008
    Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission on or about April 29,
    2008 (the “Proxy Statement”), including under the
    captions “Board of Directors,” “Executive
    Officers,” “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance” and “Information Regarding the
    Board of Directors and Its Committees.”

We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which is
    posted on our website at

www.lasvegassands.com

, along
    with any amendments or waivers to the Code. Copies of the Code
    of Business Conduct and Ethics are available without charge by
    sending a written request to the Corporate Secretary at the
    following address: Las Vegas Sands Corp., 3355 Las Vegas
    Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109.

ITEM 11. —

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement, including under the
    captions “Executive Compensation and Other
    Information,” “Director Compensation,”
    “Information Regarding the Board of Directors and Its
    Committees” and “Compensation Committee Report”
    (which report is deemed to be furnished and is not deemed to be
    filed in any Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).



ITEM 12. —

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
    MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement, including under the
    captions “Equity Compensation Plan Information” and
    “Principal Stockholders.”

ITEM 13. —

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
    INDEPENDENCE

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement, including under the
    captions “Board of Directors,” “Information
    Regarding the Board of Directors and its Committees” and
    “Certain Transactions.”

ITEM 14. —

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

We incorporate by reference the information responsive to this
    Item appearing in the Proxy Statement, under the caption
    “Fees paid to Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm.”



PART IV

ITEM 15. —

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)

Documents filed as part of the Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

(1) List of Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Balance Sheets

Consolidated Statements of Operations

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and
    Comprehensive Income

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(2) List of Financial Statement Schedule

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(3) List of Exhibits

Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.1

Certificate of Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
    Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Amended and Restated By-laws of Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).


.1

Form of Specimen Common Stock Certificate of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Indenture, dated as of February 10, 2005, by and between
    Las Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer, and U.S. Bank National
    Association, as trustee (the “6.375% Notes Indenture)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 15, 2005).


.3

Supplemental Indenture to the 6.375% Notes Indenture, dated
    as of February 22, 2005, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
    (n/k/a Las Vegas Sands, LLC), Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Mall
    Intermediate Holding Company, LLC, Lido Intermediate Holding
    Company, LLC, Lido Casino Resort, LLC, (which was merged into
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC in March 2007), Venetian Venture
    Development, LLC, Venetian Operating Company, LLC (which was
    merged into Venetian Casino Resort, LLC in March 2006), Venetian
    Marketing, Inc. and Venetian Transport, LLC, as guarantors, Las
    Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer and U.S. Bank National Association,
    as trustee) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to
    the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 23, 2005).


.4

Second Supplemental Indenture to the 6.375% Notes
    Indenture, dated as of May 23, 2007, by and among Interface
    Group Nevada, Inc., Lido Casino Resort Holding Company, LLC,
    Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary,
    LLC, Sands Pennsylvania, Inc. and Palazzo Condo Tower, as
    guaranteeing subsidiaries, the guarantors party to the first
    supplemental indenture, Las Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer, and
    U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.1

Credit and Guarantee Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007,
    by and among Las Vegas Sands, LLC, the affiliates of Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC named therein as guarantors, the lenders party hereto
    from time to time, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as administrative
    agent for the Lenders and as collateral agent, Goldman Sachs
    Credit Partners L.P., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Citigroup Global
    Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners and
    as syndication agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as documentation
    agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.2

Security Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007, between each
    of the parties named as a grantor therein and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as collateral agent for the secured parties, as defined
    therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.3

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by
    Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, as trustor, as of
    May 23, 2007 in favor of First American
    Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the benefit of The
    Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as collateral agent, as
    beneficiary (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.4

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC, as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor of
    First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.5

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC, as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor
    of First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for
    the benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.6

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC and Las Vegas Sands, LLC, jointly and
    severally as trustors, as of May 23, 2007 in favor of First
    American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.7

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc., as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor
    of First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for
    the benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.10 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.8

Amended and Restated FF&E Credit and Guarantee Agreement,
    dated as of August 21, 2007, by and among Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC, as the borrower, certain affiliates of the borrower as
    guarantors, the lenders party thereto from time to time, General
    Electric Capital Corporation, as administrative agent for the
    lenders and as collateral agent and GE Capital Markets, Inc., as
    lead arranger and book runner (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).


.9

Amended and Restated Security Agreement, dated as of
    August 21, 2007, between each of the grantors party thereto
    and General Electric Capital Corporation, as collateral agent
    for the secured parties (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).


.10

Indemnity Agreement, dated as of August 25, 2000, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Grand
    Canal Shops Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall
    Construction, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall, LLC, Interface Group
    Holding Company, and American Insurance Companies (of which
    American Home Assurance Company is a member company)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.8 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.11

Energy Services Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997,
    by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 2 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated March 27, 1998).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.12

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 1, dated as of
    July 1, 1999, by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.8 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 1999 and filed on
    March 30, 2000).


.13

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 2, dated as of
    July 1, 2006, by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.77 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2006 and filed on
    February 28, 2007).


.14

Energy Services Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997,
    by and between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.8 to Amendment No. 1 of the Company’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.15

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 1, dated as of
    July 1, 1999, by and between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.16

Amended and Restated Services Agreement, dated as of
    November 14, 1997, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.,
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group Holding Company,
    Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Lido Casino Resort MM, Inc.,
    Grand Canal Shops Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and certain
    subsidiaries of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC named therein
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to Amendment
    No. 1 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Registration
    Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated February 12, 1998).


.17

Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    November 8, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.,
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group Holding Company,
    Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Interface Operations LLC,
    Lido Casino Resort MM, Inc., Grand Canal Shops Mall MM
    Subsidiary, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC named therein (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.52 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.18

Construction Agency Agreement, dated as of November 14,
    1997, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Atlantic
    Pacific Las Vegas, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.21 to Amendment No. 2 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated March 27, 1998).


.19

Sands Resort Hotel and Casino Agreement, dated as of
    February 18, 1997, by and between Clark County and Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.27 to Amendment No. 1 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated February 12, 1998).


.20

Addendum to Sands Resort Hotel & Casino Agreement,
    dated as of September 16, 1997, by and between Clark County
    and Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.20 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.21

Improvement Phasing Agreement by and between Clark County and
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.22

Amended and Restated Las Vegas Sands, Inc. 1997 Fixed Stock
    Option Plan (the “1997 Stock Option Plan”)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.10 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.23

First Amendment to the 1997 Stock Option Plan, dated
    June 4, 2002 (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.11 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.24

Assumption Agreement, dated as of January 2, 2002, by
    Sheldon G. Adelson with respect to the 1997 Stock Option Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2002 and filed on
    May 8, 2002).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.25

Assumption Agreement, dated as of July 15, 2004, by Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. with respect to the 1997 Stock Option Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.25 to the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.26

Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    December 20, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. and Sheldon G. Adelson (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.27 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 4, 2005).


.27

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and William
    P. Weidner (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.27 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.28

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Bradley
    H. Stone (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.30 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.29

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Robert G.
    Goldstein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.33 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.30

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Sheldon
    G. Adelson (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.36 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.31

Employment Agreement, dated as of June 1, 2006, among Las
    Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, LLC and Robert Rozek
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and filed on
    August 9, 2006).


.32

Concession Contract for Operating Casino Games of Chance or
    Games of Other Forms in the Macao Special Administrative Region,
    June 26, 2002, by and among the Macao Special
    Administrative Region and Galaxy Casino Company Limited
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.40 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2002 and filed on
    March 31, 2003).


.33

Land Concession Agreement, dated as of December 10, 2003,
    issued by the Macao Special Administrative Region to Venetian
    Macau Limited (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.39
    to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.34

Land Concession Agreement, dated as of February 23, 2007,
    issued by the Macau Special Administrative Region to Venetian
    Cotai Limited and Venetian Macau Limited (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).


.35†

Subconcession Contract for Operating Casino Games of Chance or
    Games of Other Forms in the Macao Special Administrative Region,
    dated December 19, 2002, between Galaxy Casino Company
    Limited, as concessionaire, and Venetian Macau S.A., as
    subconcessionaire (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.65 to the Company’s Amendment No. 5 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 10, 2004).


.36

Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated April 12, 2004, by and
    among Grand Canal Shops Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops
    Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and GGP Limited Partnership
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2004).


.37

Agreement, made as of April 12, 2004, by and between Lido
    Casino Resort, LLC and GGP Limited Partnership (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.2 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.38

Assignment and Assumption of Agreement and First Amendment to
    Agreement, dated September 30, 2004, made by Lido Casino
    Resort, LLC, as assignor, to Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, as
    assignee, and to GGP Limited Partnership, as buyer (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.60 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.39

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 20,
    2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp. and the stockholders
    named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.39
    to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 4, 2005).


.40

Form of Notice of Restricted Stock Award under the Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.40 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2005 and filed on
    March 2, 2006).


.41

Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.41 to the Company’s
    Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and filed on
    May 16, 2005).


.42

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Executive Cash Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.42 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and filed on
    May 16, 2005).


.43

Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2004, by and between Sheldon
    G. Adelson and Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.47 to the Company’s Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.44

Venetian Hotel Service Agreement, dated as of June 28,
    2001, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo and Convention Center
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.49 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.45

First Amendment to Venetian Hotel Service Agreement, dated as of
    June 28, 2004, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
    and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo and Convention
    Center (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.50 to the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.46

Tax Indemnification Agreement, dated as of December 17,
    2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
    and the stockholders named therein (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.56 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 4, 2005).


.47

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.63 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.48

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreements under the 2004 Equity
    Award Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.70 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 4 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.49

Form of Stock Option Agreements under the 2004 Equity Award Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.71 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 4 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.50

Amended Aircraft Interchange Agreement, dated as of May 23,
    2007, by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.51

Aircraft Time Share Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007, by
    and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.52

Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of January 1,
    2005, by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 and filed
    November 15, 2005).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.53

Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of June 18, 2004,
    by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.48 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.54

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option under the Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.65 to the Company’s Quarterly Report
    on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2005 and filed on
    March 2, 2006).


.55

Credit Agreement, dated as of May 25, 2006, by and among
    VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Macau Limited, the financial
    institutions listed therein as lenders, The Bank of Nova Scotia,
    Banco Nacional Ultramarino, S.A., Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
    Corporation, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., Lehman Brothers
    Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and filed on
    August 9, 2006).


.56

Disbursement Agreement, dated as of May 25, 2006, by and
    among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Cotai Limited, Venetian Macau
    Limited and The Bank of Nova Scotia (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and filed on
    August 9, 2006).


.57

First Amendment to Credit Agreement and Disbursement Agreement,
    dated as of March 5, 2007, among Venetian Macau Limited,
    VML US Finance LC, Venetian Cotai Limited and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as administrative agent and disbursement agent
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).


.58

First Amendment to Disbursement Agreement, dated as of
    March 5, 2007, among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Cotai
    Limited, Venetian Macau Limited and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as
    disbursement agent and bank agent. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).


.59*

Facility Agreement, dated as of December 28, 2007, among
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as borrower, Goldman Sachs Foreign
    Exchange (Singapore) Pte., DBS Bank Ltd., UOB Asia Limited,
    Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited, as coordinators,
    and DBS Bank Ltd., as technical bank, agent and security trustee.


.60*

Sponsor Support Agreement, dated as of December 28, 2007,
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., as sponsor, Sands Mauritius
    Holdings and MBS Holdings Pte. Ltd., as holding company, Marina
    Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as borrower and DBS Bank Ltd., as security
    trustee.


.61

Development Agreement, dated August 23, 2006, between the
    Singapore Tourism Board and Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed on
    November 9, 2006).


.62

Third Amended and Restated Reciprocal Easement, Use and
    Operating Agreement, dated as of July 26, 2006, by and
    among Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Lido Casino Resort, LLC,
    Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops II, LLC,
    and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed on
    November 9, 2006).


.63

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 9, 2007).


.64

First Amendment, dated as of February 5, 2007, to the Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.76 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2006 and filed on
    February 28, 2007).


.65

Facility Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2006, among
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as borrower, Goldman Sachs
    (Singapore) Pte., DBS Bank Ltd., UOB Asia Limited and
    Oversea — Chinese Banking Corporation Limited, as
    mandated lead arrangers, Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte. and DBS
    Bank Ltd., as coordinators, DBS Bank Ltd., as agent and security
    trustee, and the financial institutions listed therein as
    original lenders (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed on
    November 9, 2006).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.66

Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2006, among
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as issuer, the purchasers named
    therein, Las Vegas Sands Corp., as guarantor, and Goldman Sachs
    (Singapore) Pte. and DBS Bank Ltd., as lead managers
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed on
    November 9, 2006).


.1*

Subsidiaries of Las Vegas Sands Corp.


.1*

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.


.1*

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.1*

Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Filed herewith.

†

Confidential treatment has been requested and granted with
    respect to portions of this exhibit, and such confidential
    portions have been deleted and replaced with “**” and
    filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    pursuant to Rule 406 under the Securities Act of 1933.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
    authorized.

LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP.

February 28, 2008

/s/

Sheldon
    G. Adelson

Sheldon G. Adelson,

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
    registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/

Sheldon
    G. Adelson

Sheldon
    G. Adelson

Chairman of the Board, Chief

Executive Officer and Director

February 28, 2008

/s/

Irwin
    Chafetz

Irwin
    Chafetz

Director

February 28, 2008

/s/

Charles
    D. Forman

Charles
    D. Forman

Director

February 28, 2008

/s/

Andrew
    R. Heyer

Andrew
    R. Heyer

Director

February 28, 2008

/s/

Michael
    A. Leven

Michael
    A. Leven

Director

February 28, 2008

/s/

James
    L. Purcell

James
    L. Purcell

Director

February 28, 2008

/s/

Irwin
    A. Siegel

Irwin
    A. Siegel

Director

February 28, 2008

/s/

William
    P. Weidner

William
    P. Weidner

President, Chief Operating Officer

and Director

February 28, 2008

/s/

Robert
    P. Rozek

Robert
    P. Rozek

Senior Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

February 28, 2008



Index to
    Exhibits

Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.1

Certificate of Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of
    Las Vegas Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Amended and Restated By-laws of Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).


.1

Form of Specimen Common Stock Certificate of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.2

Indenture, dated as of February 10, 2005, by and between
    Las Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer, and U.S. Bank National
    Association, as trustee (the “6.375% Notes Indenture)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 15, 2005).


.3

Supplemental Indenture to the 6.375% Notes Indenture, dated
    as of February 22, 2005, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
    (n/k/a Las Vegas Sands, LLC), Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Mall
    Intermediate Holding Company, LLC, Lido Intermediate Holding
    Company, LLC, Lido Casino Resort, LLC, (which was merged into
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC in March 2007), Venetian Venture
    Development, LLC, Venetian Operating Company, LLC (which was
    merged into Venetian Casino Resort, LLC in March 2006), Venetian
    Marketing, Inc. and Venetian Transport, LLC, as guarantors, Las
    Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer and U.S. Bank National Association,
    as trustee) (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to
    the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 23, 2005).


.4

Second Supplemental Indenture to the 6.375% Notes
    Indenture, dated as of May 23, 2007, by and among Interface
    Group Nevada, Inc., Lido Casino Resort Holding Company, LLC,
    Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary,
    LLC, Sands Pennsylvania, Inc. and Palazzo Condo Tower, as
    guaranteeing subsidiaries, the guarantors party to the first
    supplemental indenture, Las Vegas Sands Corp., as issuer, and
    U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.1

Credit and Guarantee Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007,
    by and among Las Vegas Sands, LLC, the affiliates of Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC named therein as guarantors, the lenders party hereto
    from time to time, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as administrative
    agent for the Lenders and as collateral agent, Goldman Sachs
    Credit Partners L.P., Lehman Brothers Inc. and Citigroup Global
    Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners and
    as syndication agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as documentation
    agent (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.2

Security Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007, between each
    of the parties named as a grantor therein and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as collateral agent for the secured parties, as defined
    therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.3

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by
    Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, as trustor, as of
    May 23, 2007 in favor of First American
    Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the benefit of The
    Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as collateral agent, as
    beneficiary (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.4

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Las Vegas
    Sands, LLC, as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor of
    First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.5

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC, as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor
    of First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for
    the benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.6

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC and Las Vegas Sands, LLC, jointly and
    severally as trustors, as of May 23, 2007 in favor of First
    American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for the
    benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.7

Deed of Trust, Leasehold Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and
    Leases, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc., as trustor, as of May 23, 2007 in favor
    of First American Title Insurance Company, as trustee, for
    the benefit of The Bank of Nova Scotia, in its capacity as
    collateral agent, as beneficiary (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.10 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.8

Amended and Restated FF&E Credit and Guarantee Agreement,
    dated as of August 21, 2007, by and among Las Vegas Sands,
    LLC, as the borrower, certain affiliates of the borrower as
    guarantors, the lenders party thereto from time to time, General
    Electric Capital Corporation, as administrative agent for the
    lenders and as collateral agent and GE Capital Markets, Inc., as
    lead arranger and book runner (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).


.9

Amended and Restated Security Agreement, dated as of
    August 21, 2007, between each of the grantors party thereto
    and General Electric Capital Corporation, as collateral agent
    for the secured parties (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 and filed on
    November 9, 2007).


.10

Indemnity Agreement, dated as of August 25, 2000, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Grand
    Canal Shops Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall
    Construction, LLC, Grand Canal Shops Mall, LLC, Interface Group
    Holding Company, and American Insurance Companies (of which
    American Home Assurance Company is a member company)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.8 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.11

Energy Services Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997,
    by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and Venetian
    Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 2 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated March 27, 1998).


.12

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 1, dated as of
    July 1, 1999, by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.8 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 1999 and filed on
    March 30, 2000).


.13

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 2, dated as of
    July 1, 2006, by and between Atlantic Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.77 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2006 and filed on
    February 28, 2007).


.14

Energy Services Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997,
    by and between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas, LLC and Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.8 to Amendment No. 1 of the Company’s
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.15

Energy Services Agreement Amendment No. 1, dated as of
    July 1, 1999, by and between Atlantic-Pacific Las Vegas,
    LLC and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Amendment
    No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.16

Amended and Restated Services Agreement, dated as of
    November 14, 1997, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.,
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group Holding Company,
    Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Lido Casino Resort MM, Inc.,
    Grand Canal Shops Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and certain
    subsidiaries of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC named therein
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to Amendment
    No. 1 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Registration
    Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated February 12, 1998).


.17

Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    November 8, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc.,
    Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Interface Group Holding Company,
    Inc., Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Interface Operations LLC,
    Lido Casino Resort MM, Inc., Grand Canal Shops Mall MM
    Subsidiary, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of Venetian Casino
    Resort, LLC named therein (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.52 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.18

Construction Agency Agreement, dated as of November 14,
    1997, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Atlantic
    Pacific Las Vegas, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.21 to Amendment No. 2 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated March 27, 1998).


.19

Sands Resort Hotel and Casino Agreement, dated as of
    February 18, 1997, by and between Clark County and Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.27 to Amendment No. 1 to Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc.’s Registration Statement on

Form S-4

(File

No. 333-42147)

dated February 12, 1998).


.20

Addendum to Sands Resort Hotel & Casino Agreement,
    dated as of September 16, 1997, by and between Clark County
    and Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.20 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.21

Improvement Phasing Agreement by and between Clark County and
    Lido Casino Resort, LLC (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 22, 2004).


.22

Amended and Restated Las Vegas Sands, Inc. 1997 Fixed Stock
    Option Plan (the “1997 Stock Option Plan”)
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.10 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.23

First Amendment to the 1997 Stock Option Plan, dated
    June 4, 2002 (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.11 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and filed on
    August 14, 2002).


.24

Assumption Agreement, dated as of January 2, 2002, by
    Sheldon G. Adelson with respect to the 1997 Stock Option Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2002 and filed on
    May 8, 2002).


.25

Assumption Agreement, dated as of July 15, 2004, by Las
    Vegas Sands, Inc. with respect to the 1997 Stock Option Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.25 to the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.26

Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of
    December 20, 2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands, Inc., Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. and Sheldon G. Adelson (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.27 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 4, 2005).


.27

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and William
    P. Weidner (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.27 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.28

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Bradley
    H. Stone (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.30 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.29

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Robert G.
    Goldstein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.33 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.30

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 18, 2004, by and
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc. and Sheldon
    G. Adelson (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.36 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.31

Employment Agreement, dated as of June 1, 2006, among Las
    Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, LLC and Robert Rozek
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and filed on
    August 9, 2006).


.32

Concession Contract for Operating Casino Games of Chance or
    Games of Other Forms in the Macao Special Administrative Region,
    June 26, 2002, by and among the Macao Special
    Administrative Region and Galaxy Casino Company Limited
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.40 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2002 and filed on
    March 31, 2003).


.33

Land Concession Agreement, dated as of December 10, 2003,
    issued by the Macao Special Administrative Region to Venetian
    Macau Limited (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.39
    to the Company’s Amendment No. 1 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.34

Land Concession Agreement, dated as of February 23, 2007,
    issued by the Macau Special Administrative Region to Venetian
    Cotai Limited and Venetian Macau Limited (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).


.35†

Subconcession Contract for Operating Casino Games of Chance or
    Games of Other Forms in the Macao Special Administrative Region,
    dated December 19, 2002, between Galaxy Casino Company
    Limited, as concessionaire, and Venetian Macau S.A., as
    subconcessionaire (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.65 to the Company’s Amendment No. 5 to
    Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 10, 2004).


.36

Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated April 12, 2004, by and
    among Grand Canal Shops Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops
    Mall MM Subsidiary, Inc. and GGP Limited Partnership
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc.’s

Form 8-K

Current Report on filed on April 16, 2004).


.37

Agreement, made as of April 12, 2004, by and between Lido
    Casino Resort, LLC and GGP Limited Partnership (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.2 to Las Vegas Sands, Inc.’s
    Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 16, 2004).


.38

Assignment and Assumption of Agreement and First Amendment to
    Agreement, dated September 30, 2004, made by Lido Casino
    Resort, LLC, as assignor, to Phase II Mall Holding, LLC, as
    assignee, and to GGP Limited Partnership, as buyer (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.60 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.39

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 20,
    2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp. and the stockholders
    named therein (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.39
    to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 4, 2005).


.40

Form of Notice of Restricted Stock Award under the Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.40 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2005 and filed on
    March 2, 2006).


.41

Las Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.41 to the Company’s
    Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and filed on
    May 16, 2005).


.42

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Executive Cash Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.42 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and filed on
    May 16, 2005).


.43

Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2004, by and between Sheldon
    G. Adelson and Las Vegas Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.47 to the Company’s Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.44

Venetian Hotel Service Agreement, dated as of June 28,
    2001, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC and Interface
    Group-Nevada, Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo and Convention Center
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.49 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.45

First Amendment to Venetian Hotel Service Agreement, dated as of
    June 28, 2004, by and between Venetian Casino Resort, LLC
    and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. d/b/a Sands Expo and Convention
    Center (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.50 to the
    Company’s Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated September 3, 2004).


.46

Tax Indemnification Agreement, dated as of December 17,
    2004, by and among Las Vegas Sands Corp., Las Vegas Sands, Inc.
    and the stockholders named therein (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.56 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

filed on April 4, 2005).


.47

Las Vegas Sands Corp. Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated
    by reference from Exhibit 10.63 to the Company’s
    Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated November 22, 2004).


.48

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreements under the 2004 Equity
    Award Plan (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.70 to
    the Company’s Amendment No. 4 to Registration
    Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.49

Form of Stock Option Agreements under the 2004 Equity Award Plan
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.71 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 4 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated December 8, 2004).


.50

Amended Aircraft Interchange Agreement, dated as of May 23,
    2007, by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.51

Aircraft Time Share Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2007, by
    and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands Corp.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and filed on
    August 9, 2007).


.52

Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of January 1,
    2005, by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas
    Sands, Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 and filed
    November 15, 2005).


.53

Aircraft Time Sharing Agreement, dated as of June 18, 2004,
    by and between Interface Operations LLC and Las Vegas Sands,
    Inc. (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.48 to the
    Company’s Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on

Form S-1

(Reg.

No. 333-118827)

dated October 25, 2004).


.54

Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option under the Las Vegas
    Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.65 to the Company’s Quarterly Report
    on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2005 and filed on
    March 2, 2006).


.55

Credit Agreement, dated as of May 25, 2006, by and among
    VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Macau Limited, the financial
    institutions listed therein as lenders, The Bank of Nova Scotia,
    Banco Nacional Ultramarino, S.A., Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
    Corporation, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., Lehman Brothers
    Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly
    Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and filed on
    August 9, 2006).


.56

Disbursement Agreement, dated as of May 25, 2006, by and
    among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Cotai Limited, Venetian Macau
    Limited and The Bank of Nova Scotia (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and filed on
    August 9, 2006).


.57

First Amendment to Credit Agreement and Disbursement Agreement,
    dated as of March 5, 2007, among Venetian Macau Limited,
    VML US Finance LC, Venetian Cotai Limited and The Bank of Nova
    Scotia, as administrative agent and disbursement agent
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).



Exhibit No.

Description of Document


.58

First Amendment to Disbursement Agreement, dated as of
    March 5, 2007, among VML US Finance LLC, Venetian Cotai
    Limited, Venetian Macau Limited and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as
    disbursement agent and bank agent. (incorporated by reference
    from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 and filed on
    May 10, 2007).


.59*

Facility Agreement, dated as of December 28, 2007, among
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as borrower, Goldman Sachs Foreign
    Exchange (Singapore) Pte., DBS Bank Ltd., UOB Asia Limited,
    Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited, as coordinators,
    and DBS Bank Ltd., as technical bank, agent and security trustee.


.60*

Sponsor Support Agreement, dated as of December 28, 2007,
    among Las Vegas Sands Corp., as sponsor, Sands Mauritius
    Holdings and MBS Holdings Pte. Ltd., as holding company, Marina
    Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as borrower and DBS Bank Ltd., as security
    trustee.


.61

Development Agreement, dated August 23, 2006, between the
    Singapore Tourism Board and Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd.
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed on
    November 9, 2006).


.62

Third Amended and Restated Reciprocal Easement, Use and
    Operating Agreement, dated as of July 26, 2006, by and
    among Venetian Casino Resort, LLC, Lido Casino Resort, LLC,
    Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, Grand Canal Shops II, LLC,
    and Interface Group-Nevada, Inc. (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed on
    November 9, 2006).


.63

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

filed on February 9, 2007).


.64

First Amendment, dated as of February 5, 2007, to the Las
    Vegas Sands Corp. 2004 Equity Award Plan (incorporated by
    reference from Exhibit 10.76 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2006 and filed on
    February 28, 2007).


.65

Facility Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2006, among
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as borrower, Goldman Sachs
    (Singapore) Pte., DBS Bank Ltd., UOB Asia Limited and
    Oversea — Chinese Banking Corporation Limited, as
    mandated lead arrangers, Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte. and DBS
    Bank Ltd., as coordinators, DBS Bank Ltd., as agent and security
    trustee, and the financial institutions listed therein as
    original lenders (incorporated by reference from
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed on
    November 9, 2006).


.66

Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2006, among
    Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd., as issuer, the purchasers named
    therein, Las Vegas Sands Corp., as guarantor, and Goldman Sachs
    (Singapore) Pte. and DBS Bank Ltd., as lead managers
    (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed on
    November 9, 2006).


.1*

Subsidiaries of Las Vegas Sands Corp.


.1*

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.


.1*

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.1*

Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


.2*

Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Las Vegas Sands
    Corp. pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
    pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Filed herewith.

†

Confidential treatment has been requested and granted with
    respect to portions of this exhibit, and such confidential
    portions have been deleted and replaced with “**” and
    filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    pursuant to Rule 406 under the Securities Act of 1933.

133