Item 1. Business



Company Overview





Fortune 100

Fortune 500

The Financial Times

Euromoney



CB Richard Ellis History



CB Richard Ellis marked its 104thyear of continuous operations in 2010, tracing our origins to a
company founded in San Francisco in the aftermath of the 1906 earthquake. From those humble beginnings, we have grown into the largest global commercial real estate services firm (in terms of 2010 revenue) through organic growth and a series of
strategic acquisitions in the United States and the United Kingdom. In December 2006, we completed the acquisition of Trammell Crow Company, our largest acquisition to date, which deepened our outsourcing services offerings for corporate and
institutional clients, especially project and facilities management, strengthened our ability to provide integrated account management solutions across geographies, and established resources and expertise to offer real estate development services
throughout the United States.



On February 15,
2011, we announced that we had entered into definitive agreements to acquire the majority of the real estate investment management business of Netherlands-based ING Group N.V. (ING) for approximately $940 million in cash. The acquisitions include
substantially all of the ING Real Estate Investment









As of December 31, 2010, the assets under management, or AUM, in the ING REIM portfolio we are acquiring totaled approximately $59.8 billion. CBRE Investors’ assets under management totaled
$37.6 billion as of December 31, 2010. The methodologies used by the ING REIM business units and CBRE Investors to determine their respective AUM are not the same and, accordingly, the reported AUM of ING REIM would be different if calculated
using a methodology consistent with that of CBRE Investors’ methodology. To the extent applicable, ING REIM’s reported AUM was converted from Euros to U.S. dollars using an exchange rate of $1.3379 per €1. ING REIM, when combined
with our existing Global Investment Management operations, will provide us with a significantly enhanced ability to meet the needs of institutional investors across global markets with a full spectrum of investment programs and strategies.



We have historically also supplemented our global
capabilities through the acquisition of regional and specialty-niche firms that are leaders in their areas of concentration or in their local markets, including regional firms with which we had previous affiliate relationships. These
“in-fill” acquisitions remain an integral part of our long-term strategy.



Our Regions of Operation and Principal Services



CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through its indirect subsidiaries. CB Richard Ellis
Services, Inc., our direct wholly-owned subsidiary, is also generally a holding company and is the primary obligor or issuer with respect to most of our long-term indebtedness.



We report our operations through the following segments:
(1) Americas, (2) EMEA, (3) Asia Pacific, (4) Global Investment Management and (5) Development Services.



Information regarding revenue and operating income or loss, attributable to each of our segments, is included in “Segment
Operations” within the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section and within Note 20 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by
reference. Information concerning the identifiable assets of each of our business segments is also set forth in Note 20 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.



The Americas



The Americas segment is our largest segment of operations
and provides a comprehensive range of services throughout the United States and in the largest metropolitan regions in Canada and selected parts of Latin America through both wholly-owned operations as well as independent affiliated offices. Our
agreements with these independent affiliate offices include licenses to use the “CB Richard Ellis” name in the relevant territory in return for payments of annual royalty fees to us. In addition, these agreements also include business
cross-referral arrangements between us and our affiliates.







Most of our advisory services and outsourcing services operations are conducted through our
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CB Richard Ellis, Inc. Our mortgage loan origination and servicing operations are conducted exclusively through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary operating under the name CBRE Capital Markets and its subsidiaries.
Our operations in Canada are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CB Richard Ellis Limited.



Our Americas segment accounted for 62.9% of our 2010 revenue, 62.3% of our 2009 revenue and 62.6% of our 2008 revenue. Within our Americas
segment, we organize our services into the following business areas:



Advisory Services



Our advisory services businesses offer occupier/tenant and investor/owner services that meet the full spectrum of marketplace needs, including (1) real estate services, (2) capital markets and
(3) valuation. Our advisory services business line accounted for 35.0% of our 2010 consolidated worldwide revenue, 30.8% of our 2009 consolidated worldwide revenue and 34.6% of our 2008 consolidated worldwide revenue.



Within advisory services, our major service lines are the
following:



•Real Estate Services.We provide strategic advice and execution to owners, investors and occupiers of real estate in connection
with leasing, disposition and acquisition of property. Our years of strong local market presence have allowed us to develop significant repeat business from existing clients, including approximately 57% of our revenues from existing U.S. real estate
sales and leasing clients in 2010. This includes referrals associated with our contractual fee-for-services businesses, which generally involve facilities management, property management and mortgage loan servicing, as well as asset management
provided by CBRE Investors. Our real estate services professionals are particularly adept at aligning real estate strategies with client business objectives, serving as advisors as well as transaction executors. We believe we are a market leader for
the provision of sales and leasing real estate services in most top U.S. metropolitan statistical areas (as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau), including Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York and Philadelphia.



Our real estate services
professionals are compensated primarily through commission-based programs, which are payable upon completion of an assignment. Therefore, as compensation is our largest expense, this cost structure gives us flexibility to mitigate the negative
effect on our operating margins during difficult market conditions. Due to the low barriers to entry and significant competition for quality employees, we strive to retain top professionals through an attractive compensation program tied to
productivity. We also believe we invest in greater support resources than most other firms, including professional development and training, market research and information, technology, branding and marketing. We also foster an entrepreneurial
culture that emphasizes client service and rewards performance.



We further strengthen our relationships with our real estate services clients by offering proprietary research to them through our commercial real estate market information and forecasting unit, CBRE
Econometric Advisors (CBRE-EA, formerly CBRE Torto Wheaton Research). This group provides data and analysis to its clients in various formats, including market outlook reports for the office, industrial, hotel, retail and multi-housing sectors,
covering more than 110 metropolitan areas in the United States and Canada.



•Capital Markets.In 2005, we combined our investment sales and debt/equity financing professionals into a single fully
integrated service offering called CBRE Capital Markets. The move formalized the collaboration between our investment sales professionals and debt/equity financing experts, which has grown as investors have sought comprehensive capital markets
solutions, rather than separate sales and financing transactions. During 2010, we concluded more than $38.6 billion of capital markets transactions in the Americas, including $24.1 billion of investment sales transactions and $14.5 billion of
mortgage loan originations and sales.



We believe our Investment Properties business, which includes office, industrial, retail, multi-family and hotel properties, is the leading investment sales property advisors in the United States, with a
market share of







approximately 15% in 2010. Our mortgage brokerage business originates, sells and services commercial mortgage loans primarily through relationships established with investment banking firms,
national banks, credit companies, insurance companies, pension funds and government agencies. Our mortgage loan origination volume in 2010 was $10.1 billion, representing an increase of approximately 68% from 2009. Approximately $4.2 billion of
loans in 2010 were originated for federal government sponsored entities, most of which were financed through revolving credit lines dedicated exclusively for this purpose. Loans financed through the revolving credit lines generally occur with
principal risk that is substantially mitigated because before the loan is originated, we obtain either a contractual purchase commitment from the government sponsored entity or a confirmed forward trade commitment for the issuance and purchase of a
mortgage backed security that will be secured by the loan. We advised on the sale of approximately $4.5 billion of under-performing mortgages on behalf of financial institutions in 2010, compared with $0.6 billion in 2009. In 2010, GEMSA Loan
Services, a joint venture between CBRE Capital Markets and GE Capital Real Estate, serviced approximately $112.7 billion of mortgage loans, $54.5 billion of which related to the servicing rights of CBRE Capital Markets.



•Valuation. We provide valuation services that include market value appraisals, litigation support, discounted cash flow analyses and
feasibility and fairness opinions. Our valuation business has developed proprietary technology for preparing and delivering valuation reports to our clients, which we believe provides us with an advantage over our competitors. We believe that our
valuation business is one of the largest in the industry. During 2010, we completed over 31,000 valuation, appraisal and advisory assignments.



Outsourcing Services



Outsourcing is a long-term trend in commercial real estate, with corporations, institutions, public sector entities and others seeking to
achieve improved efficiency, better execution and lower costs by relying on the expertise of third-party real estate specialists. Our outsourcing services primarily include two major business lines that seek to capitalize on this trend:
(1) corporate services and (2) asset services. Agreements with our corporate services clients are generally long-term arrangements and although they contain different provisions for termination, there are usually penalties for early
termination. Although our management agreements with our asset services clients generally may be terminated with notice ranging between 30 to 90 days, we have developed long-term relationships with many of these clients and we continue to work
closely with them to implement their specific goals and objectives and to preserve and expand upon these relationships. As of December 31, 2010, we managed nearly 1.3 billion square feet of commercial space for property owners and occupiers,
which we believe represents one of the largest portfolios in the Americas. Our outsourcing services business line accounted for 27.9% of our 2010 consolidated worldwide revenue, 31.5% of our 2009 consolidated worldwide revenue and 28.0% of our 2008
consolidated worldwide revenue.





•



Corporate Services







structured so we receive reimbursement of client-dedicated personnel costs and associated overhead expenses plus a monthly fee, and in some cases, annual incentives if agreed-upon performance
targets are satisfied.



•Asset Services. We provide property management, construction management, marketing, leasing, accounting and financial services on a
contractual basis for income-producing office, industrial and retail properties owned by local, regional and institutional investors. We provide these services through an extensive network of real estate experts in major markets throughout the
United States. These local office delivery teams are supported by a strategic accounts team whose function is to help ensure quality service and to maintain and expand relationships with large institutional clients, including buyers, sellers and
landlords who need to lease, buy, sell and/or finance space. We believe our contractual relationships with these clients put us in an advantageous position to provide other services to them, including refinancing, disposition and appraisal. We
typically receive monthly management fees for the asset services we provide based upon a specified percentage of the monthly rental income or rental receipts generated from the property under management, or in certain cases, the greater of such
percentage fee or a minimum agreed-upon fee. We are also normally reimbursed for our administrative and payroll costs, as well as certain out-of-pocket expenses, directly attributable to the properties under management.



Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)



Our Europe, Middle East and Africa, or
EMEA, segment, operates in 42 countries with operations primarily conducted through a number of indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. The largest operations are located in France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Russia, Spain and the United Kingdom.
Our operations in these countries generally provide a full range of services to the commercial property sector. Additionally, we provide some residential property services, primarily in France, Spain and the United Kingdom. Within EMEA, our services
are organized along the same lines as in the Americas, including brokerage, investment properties, corporate services, valuation/appraisal services, asset management services and facilities management, among others. Our EMEA segment accounted for
18.3% of our 2010 revenue, 19.6% of our 2009 revenue and 21.1% of our 2008 revenue.



In France, we believe we are a market leader in Paris and also have operations in Aix in Provence, Bagnolet, Bordeaux, Lille, Lyon, Marseille, Montreuil, Montrouge, Neuilly Sur Seine, Saint Denis and
Toulous. Our German operations are located in Berlin, Cologne, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Munich and Stuttgart. Our presence in Italy includes operations in Milan, Modena, Rome and Turin. Our operations in the Netherlands are located in
Amsterdam, Almere, the Hague, Hoofddorp and Rotterdam. Our operations in Russia consist of an office in Moscow. In Spain, we provide full-service coverage through our offices in Barcelona, Madrid, Marbella, Palma de Mallorca and Valencia. We are one
of the leading commercial real estate services companies in the United Kingdom. We hold the leading market position in London in terms of both space acquisition and disposition and investment sales for 2010 and provide a broad range of commercial
property real estate services to investment, commercial and corporate clients located in London. We also have 11 regional offices in Aberdeen, Birmingham, Bristol, Jersey, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Sheffield and Southampton as well as offices in
Belfast, Edinburgh and Glasgow managed by our U.K. team.



We also have affiliated offices that provide commercial real estate services under our brand name in several countries throughout Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Our agreements with these independent
offices include licenses to use the “CB Richard Ellis” name in the relevant territory in return for payments of annual royalty fees to us. In addition, these agreements also include business cross-referral arrangements between us and our
affiliates.







Asia Pacific



Our Asia Pacific segment operates in 13 countries with operations primarily conducted through a number of
indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. We believe that we are one of only a few companies that can provide a full range of real estate services to large corporations throughout the region, similar to the broad range of services provided by our Americas
and EMEA segments. Our principal operations in Asia are located in China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Singapore and South Korea. In addition, we have agreements with affiliate offices in the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, Cambodia and
Malaysia that generate royalty fees and support cross-referral arrangements similar to our EMEA segment. The Pacific region includes Australia and New Zealand, with principal offices located in Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, Perth,
Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch. Our Asia Pacific segment accounted for 13.1% of our 2010 revenue, 12.6% of our 2009 revenue and 10.9% of our 2008 revenue.



Global Investment Management



Operations in our Global Investment Management segment are
conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CB Richard Ellis Investors, L.L.C. and its global affiliates, which we also refer to as CBRE Investors. CBRE Investors provides investment management services to clients/partners that include
pension plans, foundations, endowments and other organizations seeking to generate returns and diversification through investment in real estate. It sponsors investment programs that span the risk/return spectrum across three continents: North
America, Europe and Asia. In higher yield strategies, CBRE Investors and its investment teams “co-invest” with its limited partners. Our Global Investment Management segment accounted for 4.2% of our 2010 revenue, 3.4% of our 2009 revenue
and 3.1% of our 2008 revenue.



CBRE Investors is
organized into four primary investment execution groups according to strategy, which include direct real estate investments through the Managed Accounts Group (low risk), Strategic Partners (higher yielding strategies), Capital Partners (higher
yielding debt strategies) and indirect real estate investments in real estate securities and unlisted property funds (multiple risk strategies). Operationally, a dedicated investment team executes each investment strategy, with the team’s
compensation being driven largely by the investment performance of its particular strategy/fund. This organizational structure is designed to align the interests of team members with those of the firm and its investor clients/partners and to enhance
accountability and performance. Dedicated teams are supported by shared resources such as accounting, financial controls, information technology, investor services and research. CBRE Investors has an in-house team of research professionals who focus
on investment strategy, underwriting and forecasting, based in part on research from our advisory services group.



CBRE Investors closed approximately $4.1 billion and $1.7 billion of new acquisitions in 2010 and 2009, respectively. It liquidated $2.2
billion and $0.8 billion of investments in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Assets under management have increased from $10.5 billion at December 31, 2000 to $37.6 billion at December 31, 2010, representing an approximately 14% compound annual
growth rate.



As of December 31, 2010, our
portfolio of consolidated real estate held for investment consisted of one industrial property and eight multi-family/residential properties, all located in the United States. Rental revenues (which are included in revenue) and expenses (which are
included in operating, administrative and other expenses) relating to these operational real estate properties were $41.6 million and $22.4 million, respectively, and were included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the
year ended December 31, 2010.







Development Services



Operations in our Development Services segment are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries
Trammell Crow Company, Trammell Crow Services, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries, providing development services primarily in the United States to users of and investors in commercial real estate, as well as for its own account. Trammell Crow
Company pursues opportunistic but risk-mitigated development and investment in commercial real estate across a wide spectrum of property types, including industrial, office and retail properties; healthcare facilities of all types (medical office
buildings, hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers); higher education facilities (primarily student housing); and residential/mixed-use projects. Our Development Services segment accounted for 1.5% of our 2010 revenue, 2.1% of our 2009 revenue and
2.3% of our 2008 revenue.



Trammell Crow Company
acts as the manager of development projects, providing services that are vital in all stages of the process, including: (i) site identification, due diligence and acquisition; (ii) evaluating project feasibility, budgeting, scheduling and
cash flow analysis; (iii) procurement of approvals and permits, including zoning and other entitlements; (iv) project finance advisory services; (v) coordination of project design and engineering; (vi) construction bidding and
management as well as tenant finish coordination; and (vii) project close-out and tenant move coordination.



Trammell Crow Company may pursue development and investment activity on behalf of its user and investor clients (with no ownership), in
partnership with its clients (through co-investment—either on an individual project basis or through a fund or program) or for its own account (100% ownership). Development activity in which Trammell Crow Company has an ownership interest is
conducted through subsidiaries that are consolidated or unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes, depending primarily on the extent and nature of our ownership interest.



Trammell Crow Company has established several commingled
investment funds to facilitate its pursuit of opportunistic and value added development and investment projects. In addition, it seeks to channel a large part of its development and investment activity into programs with certain strategic capital
partners.



As of December 31, 2010, our
portfolio of consolidated real estate consisted of land, industrial, office, retail and medical properties and a mixed-use project. These projects are geographically dispersed throughout the United States, except for one project, which is located in
Canada. Rental revenues (which are included in revenue) and expenses (which are included in operating, administrative and other expenses) relating to these operational real estate properties, excluding those reported as discontinued operations, were
$46.9 million and $24.6 million, respectively, and were included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010.



At December 31, 2010, Trammell Crow Company had $4.9
billion of development projects in process. Additionally, the inventory of pipeline deals (those projects we are pursuing, which we believe have a greater than 50% chance of closing or where land has been acquired and the project construction start
is more than twelve months out) was $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010.



Competition



We compete across a variety of business disciplines within the commercial real estate industry, including commercial property and corporate facilities management, tenant representation, property/agency
leasing, property sales, valuation, real estate investment management, commercial mortgage origination and servicing, capital markets (equity and debt) solutions, development services and proprietary research. Each of the business disciplines in
which we compete is highly competitive on an international, national, regional and local level. Although we are the largest commercial real estate services firm in the world in terms of 2010 revenue, our relative competitive position varies
significantly across geographies, property types and services. Depending on the geography, property type or service, we face competition from other commercial real estate service providers, including outsourcing companies that traditionally competed
in limited portions of our facilities management business and have recently expanded their offerings, in-house corporate real estate departments, developers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers
and accounting and







consulting firms, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do. Despite recent consolidation, the commercial real estate services industry remains highly fragmented and
competitive. Although many of our competitors are local or regional firms and are substantially smaller than us, some of these competitors are larger on a local or regional basis. We are also subject to competition from other large multi-national
firms that have similar service competencies to ours, including Cushman & Wakefield and Jones Lang LaSalle as well as national firms such as Grubb & Ellis.



Seasonality



A significant portion of our revenue is seasonal, which can affect an investor’s ability to compare our
financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Historically, this seasonality has caused our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flows from operating activities to be lower in the first two quarters and
higher in the third and fourth quarters of each year. Earnings and cash flow have historically been particularly concentrated in the fourth quarter due to investors and companies focusing on completing transactions prior to calendar year-end. This
has historically resulted in lower profits or a loss in the first and second quarters, with revenue and profitability improving in each subsequent quarter.



Employees



At December 31, 2010, we had approximately 31,000 employees worldwide, excluding affiliate offices, many of which are in our
outsourcing operations and are fully reimbursed by our clients. At December 31, 2010, 715 of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements, most of whom are on-site employees in our asset services business in New York, New
Jersey, Illinois and California. We believe that relations with our employees are generally good.



Intellectual Property



We hold various trademarks and trade names worldwide, which include the “CB Richard Ellis” name. Although we believe our intellectual property plays a role in maintaining our competitive
position in a number of the markets that we serve, we do not believe we would be materially, adversely affected by expiration or termination of our trademarks or trade names or the loss of any of our other intellectual property rights other than the
“CB Richard Ellis”, the “CBRE” and the “Trammell Crow” names. With respect to the CB Richard Ellis and CBRE names, we have processed and continuously maintain trademark registrations for these service marks in the
United States and the CB Richard Ellis and CBRE related marks are in registration or in process in most foreign jurisdictions where we conduct significant business. We obtained our most recent U.S. trademark registrations for the CB Richard
Ellis and CBRE related marks in 2005, and these registrations would expire in 2015 if we failed to renew them.



We hold a license to use the “Trammell Crow” trade name pursuant to a license agreement with CF98, L.P., an affiliate of Crow
Realty Investors, L.P., d/b/a Crow Holdings, which may be revoked if we fail to satisfy usage and quality control covenants under the license agreement.



In addition to trade names, we have developed proprietary technologies for the provision of complex services through our global
outsourcing business and for preparing and developing valuation reports for our clients through our valuation business. We also offer proprietary research to clients through our CBRE-EA research unit and we offer proprietary investment structures
through CBRE Investors. While we seek to secure our rights under applicable intellectual property protection laws in these and any other proprietary assets that we use in our business, we do not believe any of these other items of intellectual
property are material to our business in the aggregate.



Environmental Matters



U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations impose environmental liabilities, controls, disclosure rules and zoning restrictions
that impact the ownership, management, development, use, or sale of commercial real







estate. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose liability on current or previous real property owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination
caused by hazardous or toxic substances at a property, including contamination resulting from above-ground or underground storage tanks at a property. If contamination occurs or is present during our role as a property or facility manager or
developer, we could be held liable for such costs as a current “operator” of a property, regardless of the legality of the acts or omissions that caused the contamination and without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for,
the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The operator of a site also may be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from exposure to hazardous substances or environmental contamination at a site,
including liabilities arising from exposure to asbestos-containing materials. Under certain laws and common law principles, any failure by us to disclose environmental contamination at a property could subject us to liability to a buyer or lessee of
the property.



While we are aware of the presence
or the potential presence of regulated substances in the soil or groundwater at or near several properties owned, operated or managed by us, which may have resulted from historical or ongoing activities on those properties, we are not aware of any
material noncompliance with the environmental laws or regulations currently applicable to us, and we are not the subject of any material claim for liability with respect to contamination at any location. However, these laws and regulations may
discourage sales and leasing activities and mortgage lending with respect to some properties, which may adversely affect both us and the commercial real estate services industry in general. Environmental contamination or other environmental
liabilities may also negatively affect the value of commercial real estate assets held by entities that are managed by our investment management and development services businesses, which could adversely impact the results of operations of these
business lines.



Availability of this Report



Our internet address iswww.cbre.com. On the Investor Relations page on our Web site, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC: our Annual
Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings on our
Investor Relations web page are available to be viewed on this page free of charge. Information contained on our Web site is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC. We assume no obligation to update or revise
any forward-looking statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law. A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is available without charge upon
written request to: Investor Relations, CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., 200 Park Avenue, 17thFloor, New York, New York 10166.



