Item 1. Business



Company Overview





We generated revenue from a well-balanced, highly diversified base of clients. In 2013, our client roster included approximately 85 of theFortune 100companies, and consisted of firms in a broad
range of industries as follows:



•corporations (44%);



•insurance companies and banks (15%);



•pension funds and advisors (11%);



•individuals and partnerships (7%);



•real estate investment trusts, or REITs, (5%);



•government agencies (4%); and



•others (14%).



Property owners, occupiers and investors continue to consolidate their needs with fewer service providers, and are awarding their business
to firms that have strong capabilities across major markets and service disciplines. We believe we are well positioned to capture a growing and disproportionate share of the business being awarded as a result of these trends.



In 2013, we were the highest ranked commercial real estate
services company among theFortuneMost Admired Companies, and were also named the Global Real Estate Advisor of the Year byEuromoney. We have been the only commercial real estate services company included in the S&P 500 since
2006, and in theFortune 500since 2008. Additionally, the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals has included us among the top 100 global outsourcing companies across all industries for eight consecutive years, including
in 2013 when we ranked fourth overall and were the highest ranked commercial real estate services company.



CBRE History



CBRE marked its 107thyear of continuous operations in 2013, tracing our origins to a company founded in San Francisco in the aftermath of the 1906 earthquake. Since then, we have grown into the largest global commercial real
estate services and investment firm (in terms of 2013 revenue) through organic growth and a







series of strategic acquisitions, including the December 2006 purchase of Trammell Crow Company and the 2011 acquisition of substantially all of ING Group N.V.’s Real Estate Investment
Management (REIM) operations in Europe and Asia and its U.S.-based global real estate listed securities business (collectively referred to as the REIM Acquisitions). In 2013, we fortified our real estate outsourcing platform in Europe with the
acquisition of London-based Norland Managed Services Ltd (Norland). Norland is a premier provider of building technical engineering services that enables us to self-perform these services in Europe and adds to our expertise in the highly specialized
critical environments market.



We have also
historically enhanced and complemented our global capabilities through the acquisition of regional and specialty firms that are leaders in their areas of focus, including regional firms with which we had previous affiliate relationships. We
completed 10 such “in-fill” acquisitions in 2013 and they are an integral part of our growth strategy.



Our Regions of Operation and Principal Services



CBRE Group, Inc. is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through its indirect subsidiaries. CBRE Services, Inc., our
direct wholly-owned subsidiary, is also generally a holding company and is the primary obligor or issuer with respect to most of our long-term indebtedness.



We report our operations through the following segments: (1) Americas, (2) Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA,
(3) Asia Pacific, (4) Global Investment Management and (5) Development Services.



Information regarding revenue and operating income or loss, attributable to each of our segments, is included in “Segment Operations” within the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section and within Note 21 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. Information concerning the identifiable assets of each of our business
segments is also set forth in Note 21 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.



The Americas



The Americas is our largest reporting segment, comprised of operations throughout the United States and Canada as well as key markets in
Latin America. Our operations are largely wholly-owned, but also include independent affiliates, which license the use of the “CBRE” and “CB Richard Ellis” names in their local markets in return for payments of annual royalty
fees to us and an agreement to cross-refer business between us and the affiliate.



Most of our operations are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE, Inc. Our mortgage loan origination, sales and servicing operations are conducted exclusively through our indirect
wholly-owned subsidiary operating under the name CBRE Capital Markets, Inc., or Capital Markets, and its subsidiaries. Our operations in Canada are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE Limited. Both CBRE Capital Markets and
CBRE Limited are subsidiaries of CBRE, Inc.



Our
Americas segment accounted for 62.7% of our 2013 revenue, 63.0% of our 2012 revenue and 62.2% of our 2011 revenue. Within our Americas segment, we organize our services into the following business areas:



Advisory Services



Our advisory services businesses offer occupier/tenant and
investor/owner services that meet the full spectrum of marketplace needs, including (1) real estate services, (2) capital markets and (3) valuation. Our advisory services business line accounted for 34.8% of our 2013 consolidated
worldwide revenue, 35.0% of our 2012 consolidated worldwide revenue and 34.5% of our 2011 consolidated worldwide revenue.







Within advisory services, our major service lines are the following:



•Real Estate Services.We provide strategic advice and execution to owners, investors and occupiers of real
estate in connection with leasing, disposition and acquisition of property. Our many years of strong local market presence have allowed us to develop significant repeat business from existing clients, including approximately 67% of our revenues from
existing U.S. real estate sales and leasing clients in 2013. This includes referrals from other parts of our business. Our real estate services professionals are particularly adept at aligning real estate strategies with client business objectives,
serving as advisors as well as transaction executors. We believe we are a market leader for the provision of sales and leasing real estate services in most top U.S. metropolitan statistical areas (as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau), including
Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Phoenix and San Francisco.



Our real estate services professionals are compensated primarily through commission-based programs, which are payable upon completion of
an assignment. Therefore, as compensation is our largest expense, this cost structure gives us flexibility to mitigate the negative effect on our operating margins during difficult market conditions. Due to the low barriers to entry and significant
competition for quality employees, we strive to retain top professionals through an attractive compensation program tied to productivity. We believe we invest in greater support resources than most other firms, including professional development and
training, market research and information, technology, branding and marketing. We also foster an entrepreneurial culture that emphasizes client service and rewards performance.



We further strengthen our relationships with our real estate
services clients by offering proprietary research to them through CBRE Research & Consulting and CBRE Econometric Advisors, or CBRE-EA, our commercial real estate market information and forecasting groups.



•Capital Markets.We offer clients fully integrated investment sales and debt/structured
financing services under the CBRE Capital Markets brand. The tight integration of these services fosters collaboration between our investment sales and debt/structured financing professionals, helping to meet the marketplace demand for comprehensive
capital markets solutions. During 2013, we concluded approximately $92.2 billion of capital markets transactions in the Americas, including $65.8 billion of investment sales transactions and $26.4 billion of mortgage loan originations and sales.





•Valuation.We provide valuation services that include market value appraisals, litigation
support, discounted cash flow analyses and feasibility and fairness opinions. Our valuation business has developed proprietary systems for data management, analysis and valuation report preparation, which







we believe provides us with an advantage over our competitors. We believe that our valuation business is one of the largest in the industry. During 2013, we completed over 48,000 valuation,
appraisal and advisory assignments in the Americas.



Outsourcing Services







•





Occupier Outsourcing



.





•Property Management.Through our Asset Services business line, we provide property management services on a
contractual basis for owners/investors in office, industrial and retail properties. These services include construction management, marketing, leasing, accounting and financial services. We provide these services through an extensive network of real
estate experts in major markets throughout the United States. These local specialists are supported by a strategic accounts team whose function is to help ensure quality service and to maintain and expand relationships with large institutional
clients, including buyers, sellers and landlords who need to lease, buy, sell and/or finance space. We believe our contractual relationships with these clients put us in an advantageous position to provide other services to them, including
refinancing, disposition and appraisal. We typically receive monthly management fees for the asset services we provide based upon a specified percentage of the monthly rental income or







rental receipts generated from the property under management, or in certain cases, the greater of such percentage fee or a minimum agreed-upon fee. We are also normally reimbursed for our
administrative and payroll costs, as well as certain out-of-pocket expenses, directly attributable to the properties under management.



Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)



Our Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, reporting
segment operates in 40 countries with services primarily furnished through a number of indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. The largest operations are located in France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom. Our operations in
these countries generally provide a full range of services to the commercial property sector. Additionally, we provide some residential property services, focused on the prime and super-prime segments of the market, primarily in France, Spain and
the United Kingdom. Within EMEA, our services are organized along the same lines as in the Americas, including brokerage, investment properties, occupier outsourcing, valuation/appraisal services, asset management services and facilities management,
among others. In addition, the acquisition of Norland in December 2013 enables us to self-perform building technical engineering services in Europe. Our EMEA segment accounted for 16.9% of our 2013 revenue, 15.8% of our 2012 revenue and 18.2% of our
2011 revenue.



In France, we believe we are a
market leader in Paris and also have operations in Aix en Provence, Bagnolet, Bordeaux, Lille, Lyon, Marseille, Montreuil, Montrouge, Saint Denis and Toulouse. Our German operations are located in Berlin, Cologne, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt,
Hamburg and Munich. Our presence in Italy includes operations in Milan, Modena, Rome and Turin. Our operations in the Netherlands are located in Amsterdam, the Hague and Rotterdam. In Spain, we provide full-service coverage through our offices in
Barcelona, Madrid, Marbella, Palma de Mallorca, Valencia and Zaragoza. We are one of the leading commercial real estate services companies in the United Kingdom. We have held the leading market position in investment sales in the United Kingdom in
each of the past six years, including in 2013. In London, we provide a broad range of commercial property real estate services to investment and occupier clients, and held the leading market position for space acquisition in 2013 for the fourth year
in a row. We also have regional offices in Birmingham, Bristol, Coleshill, Jersey, Leeds, Liverpool, Luton, Manchester, Sheffield, Southampton and Thames Valley as well as offices in Aberdeen, Belfast, Dublin, Edinburgh and Glasgow managed by our
U.K. team.



In several countries in EMEA, we
operate through independent affiliates that provide commercial real estate services under our brand name. Our agreements with these independent affiliates include licenses to use the “CBRE” and “CB Richard Ellis” names in the
relevant territory in return for payments of annual royalty fees to us. In addition, these agreements also include business cross-referral arrangements between us and our affiliates.



Asia Pacific



Our Asia Pacific reporting segment operates in 13 countries
with services primarily furnished through a number of indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. We believe that we are one of only a few companies that can provide a full range of real estate services to large occupiers and investors throughout the
region, similar to the broad range of services provided by our Americas and EMEA segments. Our principal operations in Asia are located in China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam. In addition, we have agreements
with independent affiliates in Cambodia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand that generate royalty fees and support cross-referral arrangements similar to our EMEA segment. The Pacific region includes Australia and New Zealand, with principal
offices located in Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra, Melbourne, Perth, Sydney, Auckland, Christchurch and Wellington. Our Asia Pacific segment accounted for 12.2% of our 2013 revenue, 12.6% of our 2012 revenue and 13.4% of our 2011 revenue.



Global Investment Management



Operations in our Global Investment Management reporting
segment are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE Global Investors, LLC and its global affiliates, which we also refer to as CBRE







Global Investors. CBRE Global Investors provides investment management services to pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, foundations, endowments and other institutional
investors seeking to generate returns and diversification through investment in real estate. It sponsors investment programs that span the risk/return spectrum across three continents: North America, Europe and Asia. In some strategies, CBRE Global
Investors and its investment teams co-invest with its limited partners. Our Global Investment Management segment accounted for 7.5% of our 2013 revenue, 7.4% of our 2012 revenue and 4.9% of our 2011 revenue.



CBRE Global Investors’ investment programs are organized
into four primary categories, which include direct real estate investments through separate accounts and sponsored equity and debt funds as well as indirect real estate investments through listed securities and multi manager funds of funds. The
investment programs cover the full range of risk strategies from core/core+ to opportunistic. Operationally, dedicated investment teams execute each investment program within these categories, with the team’s compensation being driven largely
by the investment performance of its particular strategy/fund. This organizational structure is designed to align the interests of team members with those of the firm and its investor clients/partners and to enhance accountability and performance.
Dedicated teams are supported by shared resources such as accounting, finance, legal, information technology, investor services and research. CBRE Global Investors has an in-house team of research professionals who focus on investment strategy,
underwriting and forecasting, based in part on market data from our advisory services group.



CBRE Global Investors closed approximately $4.2 billion and $3.9 billion of new acquisitions in 2013 and 2012, respectively. It liquidated $8.9 billion and $4.7 billion of investments in 2013 and 2012,
respectively. Assets under management have increased from $14.4 billion at December 31, 2003 to $89.1 billion at December 31, 2013, representing an approximately 20% compound annual growth rate.



As of December 31, 2013, our portfolio of consolidated
real estate held for investment consisted of two multifamily/residential properties located in the United States. Included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were rental revenues (which are included in revenue) and expenses
(which are included in operating, administrative and other expenses) relating to operational real estate properties, excluding those reported as discontinued operations, of $9.8 million and $5.3 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2013, $20.2 million and $18.4 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012 and $32.8 million and $14.2 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011.



Development Services



Operations in our Development Services reporting segment are
conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Trammell Crow Company, LLC and certain of its subsidiaries, providing development services primarily in the United States to users of and investors in commercial real estate, as well as for its
own account. Trammell Crow Company pursues opportunistic, risk-mitigated development and investment in commercial real estate across a wide spectrum of property types, including industrial, office and retail properties; healthcare facilities of all
types (medical office buildings, hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers); and residential/mixed-use projects. Our Development Services segment accounted for 0.7% of our 2013 revenue, 1.2% of our 2012 revenue and 1.3% of our 2011 revenue.



Trammell Crow Company acts as the manager of
development projects, providing services that are vital in all stages of the process, including: (i) site identification, due diligence and acquisition; (ii) evaluating project feasibility, budgeting, scheduling and cash flow analysis;
(iii) procurement of approvals and permits, including zoning and other entitlements; (iv) project finance advisory services; (v) coordination of project design and engineering; (vi) construction bidding and management as well as
tenant finish coordination; and (vii) project close-out and tenant move coordination.



Trammell Crow Company may pursue development and investment activity on behalf of its user and investor clients (with no ownership), in partnership with its clients (through co-investment – either on
an







individual project basis or through programs with certain strategic capital partners) or for its own account (100% ownership). Development activity in which Trammell Crow Company has an ownership
interest is conducted through subsidiaries that are consolidated or unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes, depending primarily on the extent and nature of our ownership interest.



As of December 31, 2013, our portfolio of consolidated real estate consisted of land, industrial, office
and retail properties and mixed-use projects. These projects are geographically dispersed throughout the United States. Included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were rental revenues (which are included in revenue) and
expenses (which are included in operating, administrative and other expenses) relating to these operational real estate properties, excluding those reported as discontinued operations, of $14.5 million and $6.4 million, respectively, for the year
ended December 31, 2013, $35.4 million and $17.1 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012 and $41.1 million and $20.7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011.



At December 31, 2013, Trammell Crow Company had $4.9
billion of development projects in process. Additionally, the inventory of pipeline deals (prospective projects we believe have a greater than 50% chance of closing or where land has been acquired and the projected construction start date is more
than twelve months out) was $1.5 billion at December 31, 2013.



Competition





Seasonality



A significant portion of our revenue is seasonal, which an
investor should keep in mind when comparing our financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Historically, our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities tends to be lower in the
first two quarters and higher in the third and fourth quarters of each year. Earnings and cash flow have historically been particularly concentrated in the fourth quarter due to the focus on completing sales, financing and leasing transactions prior
to calendar year-end. This has historically resulted in lower profits or a loss in the first quarter, with revenue and profitability improving in each subsequent quarter.







Employees



At December 31, 2013, excluding our independent affiliates, we had approximately 44,000 employees worldwide, approximately 40% of
which represent costs that are fully reimbursed by clients and are mostly in our outsourcing services lines of business. At December 31, 2013, 946 of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements, most of whom are on-site
employees in our asset services business in California, Illinois, New Jersey and New York. We believe that relations with our employees are generally good.



Intellectual Property



We hold various trademarks and trade names worldwide, which include the “CBRE” name. Although we believe our intellectual
property plays a role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve, we do not believe we would be materially, adversely affected by expiration or termination of our trademarks or trade names or the loss of any of
our other intellectual property rights other than the “CBRE,” “CB Richard Ellis” and “Trammell Crow” names. With respect to the CBRE and CB Richard Ellis names, we maintain trademark registrations for these service
marks in jurisdictions where we conduct significant business. We obtained our most recent U.S. trademark registrations for the CBRE and CB Richard Ellis related marks in 2005, and these registrations would expire in 2015 if we failed to renew
them.



We hold a license to use the “Trammell
Crow” trade name pursuant to a license agreement with CF98, L.P., an affiliate of Crow Realty Investors, L.P., d/b/a Crow Holdings, which may be revoked if we fail to satisfy usage and quality control covenants under the license agreement.



In addition to trade names, we have developed
proprietary technologies for the provision of complex services and analysis through our global outsourcing business and for preparing and developing valuation reports for our clients through our valuation business. We also offer proprietary research
to clients through our CBRE-EA research unit and we offer proprietary investment analysis and structures through CBRE Global Investors. While we seek to secure our rights under applicable intellectual property protection laws in these and any other
proprietary assets that we use in our business, we do not believe any of these other items of intellectual property are material to our business in the aggregate.



Environmental Matters





While we are aware of the presence or the potential presence of regulated substances in the soil or groundwater at or near several properties owned, operated or managed by us that may have resulted from







historical or ongoing activities on those properties, we are not aware of any material noncompliance with the environmental laws or regulations currently applicable to us, and we are not the
subject of any material claim for liability with respect to contamination at any location. However, these laws and regulations may discourage sales and leasing activities and mortgage lending with respect to some properties, which may adversely
affect both us and the commercial real estate services industry in general. Environmental contamination or other environmental liabilities may also negatively affect the value of commercial real estate assets held by entities that are managed by our
investment management and development services businesses, which could adversely affect the results of operations of these business lines.



Available Information



Our internet address iswww.cbre.com. We use our website as a channel of distribution for Company information, and financial and
other material information regarding us is routinely posted and accessible on our website.



On the Investor Relations page on our website, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission, or SEC: our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including reports filed by our officers and directors under
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act.



All of
the information on our Investor Relations web page is available to be viewed free of charge. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC. We assume no obligation to update or
revise any forward-looking statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law.



A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is available
without charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, CBRE Group, Inc., 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166. The SEC also maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other
information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.



