Item 1. Business



Company Overview



CBRE Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, (which may be
referred to in this Form 10-K as the “company”, “we”, “us” and “our”), is the world’s largest commercial real estate services and investment firm, based on 2014 revenue, with leading full-service
operations in major metropolitan areas throughout the world. We offer a full range of services to occupiers, owners, lenders and investors in office, retail, industrial, multifamily and other types of commercial real estate. As of December 31,
2014, excluding independent affiliates, we operated in over 370 offices worldwide, with more than 52,000 employees providing commercial real estate services under the “CBRE” brand name, investment management services under the “CBRE
Global Investors” brand name and development services under the “Trammell Crow” brand name.



Our business is focused on several competencies, including commercial property and corporate facilities management, tenant/occupier and
property/agency leasing, capital markets solutions (property sales, commercial mortgage origination and servicing, and debt/structured finance), real estate investment management, valuation, development services and proprietary research. We generate
revenues from management fees on a contractual and per-project basis, and from commissions on transactions. Our contractual, fee-for-services businesses, which generally involve property and facilities management, mortgage loan servicing and
investment management, represented approximately 46% of our 2014 revenue. In addition, our appraisal/valuation and leasing services have contractual elements and work for clients in these service lines is often recurring in nature. Our revenue mix
has shifted in recent years toward more contractual revenue as property occupiers and investors increasingly prefer to purchase integrated, account-based services from firms that have the capabilities to meet their needs across diverse disciplines
and in local markets nationally and globally. We believe we are well-positioned to capture a growing share of the business being awarded as a result of this trend.



In 2014, we generated revenue from a well-balanced, highly
diversified base of clients, including approximately 85 of theFortune100 companies. In 2014, we were the highest ranked commercial real estate services company among theFortuneMost Admired Companies, and we ranked seventh among all
companies on theBarron’s500, which evaluates companies on growth and financial performance. We have been the only commercial real estate services and investment firm included in the S&P 500 since 2006, and in theFortune500
since 2008. Additionally, the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) has included us among the top 100 global outsourcing companies across all industries for nine consecutive years. In 2014, the IAOP ranked us as a top three
service provider among all outsourcing companies globally and as the highest ranked commercial real estate services company for the fifth year in a row.



CBRE History



CBRE marked its 108thyear of continuous operations in 2014, tracing our origins to a company founded in San Francisco in the aftermath of
the 1906 earthquake. Since then, we have grown into the largest global commercial real estate services and investment firm (in terms of 2014 revenue) through organic growth and a series of strategic acquisitions, including the December 2006 purchase
of Trammell Crow Company and the 2011 acquisition of substantially all of ING Group N.V.’s Real Estate Investment Management (REIM) operations in Europe and Asia and its U.S.-based global real estate listed securities business (collectively
referred to as the REIM Acquisitions). In 2013, we fortified our real estate outsourcing platform in Europe with the acquisition of London-based Norland Managed Services Ltd (Norland). Norland is a premier provider of building technical engineering
services that enables us to self-perform these services in Europe and adds to our expertise in the highly specialized critical environments market.



We have also historically enhanced and complemented our global capabilities through the acquisition of regional and specialty firms that
are leaders in their areas of focus and/or geographies, including regional firms







with which we had previous affiliate relationships. These “in-fill” acquisitions are an integral part of our growth strategy and we completed 11 such acquisitions during 2014.



Our Regions of Operation and Principal Services



CBRE Group, Inc. is a holding company that
conducts all of its operations through its indirect subsidiaries. CBRE Services, Inc., our direct wholly-owned subsidiary, is also generally a holding company and is the primary obligor or issuer with respect to most of our long-term indebtedness.



We report our operations through the following
segments: (1) Americas, (2) Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, (3) Asia Pacific, (4) Global Investment Management and (5) Development Services.



Information regarding revenue and operating income or loss,
attributable to each of our segments, is included in “Segment Operations” within the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section and within Note 20 of our Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. Information concerning the identifiable assets of each of our business segments is also set forth in Note 20 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is
incorporated herein by reference.



The
Americas



The Americas is our largest
reporting segment, comprised of operations throughout the United States and Canada as well as key markets in Latin America. Our operations are largely wholly-owned, but also include independent affiliates to whom we license the “CBRE” and
“CB Richard Ellis” names in their local markets in return for payments of annual or quarterly royalty fees to us and an agreement to cross-refer business between us and the affiliate.



Most of our operations are conducted through our indirect
wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE, Inc. Our mortgage loan origination, sales and servicing operations are conducted exclusively through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary operating under the name CBRE Capital Markets, Inc., or Capital Markets, and its
subsidiaries. Our operations in Canada are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE Limited. Both CBRE Capital Markets and CBRE Limited are subsidiaries of CBRE, Inc.



Our Americas segment accounted for 57.5% of our 2014 revenue, 62.7% of our 2013 revenue and 63.0% of our 2012
revenue. Within our Americas segment, we organize our services into the following business lines:



Advisory Services



Our advisory services businesses offer occupier/tenant and investor/owner services that meet the full spectrum of marketplace needs, including (1) real estate services, (2) capital markets and
(3) valuation. Our advisory services business line accounted for 32.5% of our 2014 consolidated worldwide revenue, 34.8% of our 2013 consolidated worldwide revenue and 35.0% of our 2012 consolidated worldwide revenue.



Within advisory services, our major service lines are the
following:



•Real Estate Services.We provide strategic advice and execution to owners, investors and occupiers of real estate in connection with leasing,
disposition and acquisition of property. Our many years of strong local market presence have allowed us to develop significant repeat business from existing clients, including approximately 67% of our revenues from existing U.S. real estate sales
and leasing clients in 2014. This includes referrals from other parts of our business. Our real estate services professionals are particularly adept at aligning real estate strategies with client business objectives, serving as advisors as well as
transaction executors. We believe we are a market leader for the provision of sales and leasing







real estate services in most top U.S. metropolitan statistical areas (as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau), including Atlanta, Chicago, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York,
Philadelphia, Phoenix and San Francisco.



Our real estate services professionals are compensated primarily through commission-based programs, which are payable upon completion of an assignment. Therefore, as compensation is our largest expense,
this cost structure gives us flexibility to mitigate the negative effect on our operating margins during difficult market conditions. Due to the low barriers to entry and significant competition for quality employees, we strive to retain top
professionals through an attractive compensation program tied to productivity. We believe we invest in greater support resources than most other firms, including professional development and training, market research and information, technology,
branding and marketing. We also foster an entrepreneurial culture that emphasizes client service and rewards performance.



We further strengthen our relationships with our real estate services clients by offering proprietary research to them through CBRE
Research and CBRE Econometric Advisors, or CBRE-EA, our commercial real estate market information and forecasting groups.



•Capital Markets.We offer clients fully integrated investment sales and debt/structured financing services under the CBRE Capital Markets brand.
The tight integration of these services fosters collaboration between our investment sales and debt/structured financing professionals, helping to meet the marketplace demand for comprehensive capital markets solutions. During 2014, we concluded
approximately $105.5 billion of capital markets transactions in the Americas, including $72.1 billion of investment sales transactions and $33.4 billion of mortgage loan originations and sales.





•Valuation. We provide valuation services that include market value appraisals, litigation support, discounted cash flow analyses, feasibility
and fairness opinions and property condition and environmental consulting. Our valuation business has developed proprietary systems for data management, analysis and valuation report preparation, which we believe provides us with an advantage over
our competitors. We believe that our valuation business is one of the largest in the industry. During 2014, we completed over 48,000 valuation, appraisal and advisory assignments in the Americas.



Outsourcing Services



Outsourcing commercial real estate services is expected to
be a long-term trend in our industry, with property owners, corporations, institutions, public sector entities, health care providers and others seeking to achieve improved efficiency, better execution and lower costs by relying on the expertise of
third-party real







estate specialists. Two of our service offerings seek to capitalize on the outsourcing trend: (1) occupier outsourcing, which we provide through our Global Corporate Services business line,
and (2) property management, which we provide through our Asset Services business line. Agreements with our outsourcing clients that are occupiers of space are typically long-term arrangements with penalties for early termination. Our
management agreements with our property management clients, which are owners/investors in real estate, may be terminated by either party with notice generally ranging between 30 to 90 days; however, we have developed long-term relationships with
many of these clients and we work closely with them to implement their specific goals and objectives and to preserve and expand upon these relationships. As of December 31, 2014, we managed approximately 1.8 billion square feet of commercial
space for property owners and occupiers in the Americas, which we believe represents one of the largest portfolios in the region. Our outsourcing services business line accounted for 25.0% of our 2014 consolidated worldwide revenue, 27.9% of our
2013 consolidated worldwide revenue and 28.0% of our 2012 consolidated worldwide revenue.





•



Occupier Outsourcing



•Property Management. Through our Asset Services business line, we provide property management services on a contractual basis for
owners/investors in office, industrial and retail properties. These services include construction management, marketing, leasing, building engineering, accounting and financial services. We provide these services through an extensive network of real
estate experts in major markets throughout the United States. These local specialists are supported by a strategic accounts team whose function is to help ensure quality service and to maintain and expand relationships with large institutional
clients, including buyers, sellers and landlords who need to lease, buy, sell and/or finance space. We believe our contractual relationships with these clients put us in an advantageous position to provide other services to them, including
refinancing, disposition and appraisal. We typically receive monthly management fees for the asset services we provide based upon a specified percentage of the monthly rental income or rental receipts generated from the property under management, or
in certain cases, the greater of such percentage fee or a minimum agreed-upon fee. We are also normally reimbursed for our administrative and payroll costs, as well as certain out-of-pocket expenses, directly attributable to the properties under
management.







Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)



Our Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, reporting
segment operates in 41 countries with services primarily furnished through a number of indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. The largest operations are located in France, Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom. Our operations in
these countries generally provide a full range of services to the commercial property sector. Additionally, we provide some residential property services, focused on the prime and super-prime segments of the market, primarily in the United Kingdom.
Within EMEA, our services are organized along similar lines as in the Americas, including leasing brokerage, property sales, valuation services, asset management services and facilities management, among others. In addition, the acquisition of
Norland in December 2013 enables us to self-perform building technical engineering services in Europe. Our EMEA segment accounted for 25.9% of our 2014 revenue, 16.9% of our 2013 revenue and 15.8% of our 2012 revenue.



In France, we believe we are a market leader in Paris and
also have operations in Aix en Provence, Bagnolet, Bordeaux, Lille, Lyon, Marseille, Montreuil, Montrouge, Saint Denis and Toulouse. Our German operations are located in Berlin, Cologne, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Munich, Nuremberg
and Stuttgart. Our presence in Italy includes operations in Milan, Modena, Rome and Turin. Our operations in The Netherlands are located in Amsterdam, the Hague, Rotterdam and Utrecht. In Spain, we provide full-service coverage through our offices
in Barcelona, Madrid, Marbella, Palma de Mallorca, Valencia and Zaragoza. We are one of the leading commercial real estate services companies in the United Kingdom. We have held the leading market position in investment sales in the United Kingdom
in each of the past seven years. In London, we provide a broad range of commercial property real estate services to investment and occupier clients, and held the leading market position for space acquisition in 2014 for the fifth year in a row. We
also have regional offices in Birmingham, Bristol, Jersey, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Sheffield and Southampton as well as offices in Aberdeen, Belfast, Dublin, Edinburgh and Glasgow managed by our U.K. team. In addition, our building technical
engineering services operate in several other cities throughout the United Kingdom.



In several countries in EMEA, we operate through independent affiliates that provide commercial real estate services under our brand name. Our agreements with these independent affiliates include licenses
by us to them to use the “CBRE” and “CB Richard Ellis” names in the relevant territory in return for payments of annual or quarterly royalty fees to us. In addition, these agreements may include business cross-referral
arrangements between us and our affiliates.



Asia Pacific



Our Asia Pacific reporting segment operates in 13 countries with services primarily furnished through a number of indirect wholly-owned
subsidiaries. We believe that we are one of only a few companies that can provide a full range of real estate services to large occupiers and investors throughout the region, similar to the broad range of services provided by our Americas and EMEA
segments. Our principal operations in Asia are located in Greater China, India, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand and Vietnam. In addition, we have agreements with independent affiliates in Cambodia and the Philippines that generate royalty
fees and support cross-referral arrangements similar to our EMEA segment. The Pacific region includes Australia and New Zealand, with principal offices located in Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra, Melbourne, Perth, Sydney, Auckland, Christchurch and
Wellington. Our Asia Pacific segment accounted for 10.7% of our 2014 revenue, 12.2% of our 2013 revenue and 12.6% of our 2012 revenue.



Global Investment Management



Operations in our Global Investment Management reporting segment are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE Global
Investors, LLC and its global affiliates, which we also refer to as CBRE Global Investors. CBRE Global Investors provides investment management services to pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, foundations, endowments and other
institutional investors seeking to







generate returns and diversification through investment in real estate. It sponsors investment programs that span the risk/return spectrum across three continents: North America, Europe and Asia.
In some strategies, CBRE Global Investors and its investment teams co-invest with its limited partners. Our Global Investment Management segment accounted for 5.2% of our 2014 revenue, 7.5% of our 2013 revenue and 7.4% of our 2012 revenue.



CBRE Global Investors’ offerings are
organized into four primary categories, which include direct real estate investments through separate accounts and sponsored funds as well as indirect real estate investments through listed securities and multi manager investment programs. These
offerings cover the full range of risk strategies from core/core+ to opportunistic. Operationally, dedicated investment teams execute each investment program within these categories, with the team’s compensation being driven largely by the
investment performance of its particular strategy/fund. This organizational structure is designed to align the interests of team members with those of the firm and its investor clients/partners and to enhance accountability and performance.
Dedicated teams are supported by shared resources such as accounting, finance, legal, information technology, investor services and research. CBRE Global Investors has an in-house team of research professionals who focus on investment strategy,
underwriting and forecasting, based in part on market data from our advisory services group.



CBRE Global Investors closed approximately $6.8 billion and $4.2 billion of new acquisitions in 2014 and 2013, respectively. It liquidated $6.7 billion and $8.9 billion of investments in 2014 and 2013,
respectively. Assets under management have increased from $15.1 billion at December 31, 2004 to $90.6 billion at December 31, 2014, representing an approximately 20% compound annual growth rate. This includes growth as a result of the REIM
Acquisitions.



Previously, CBRE Global Investors
has had a portfolio of consolidated real estate held for investment consisting of multifamily/residential properties located in the United States. Included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were rental revenues (which are
included in revenue) and expenses (which are included in operating, administrative and other expenses) relating to operational real estate properties, excluding those reported as discontinued operations in 2013 and 2012, of $3.6 million and $2.6
million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2014, $9.8 million and $5.3 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2013 and $20.2 million and $18.4 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012.



Development Services



Operations in our Development Services reporting segment are
conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Trammell Crow Company, LLC and certain of its subsidiaries, providing development services primarily in the United States to users of and investors in commercial real estate, as well as for its
own account. Trammell Crow Company pursues opportunistic, risk-mitigated development and investment in commercial real estate across a wide spectrum of property types, including: industrial, office and retail properties; healthcare facilities of all
types (medical office buildings, hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers); and residential/mixed-use projects. Our Development Services segment accounted for 0.7% of our 2014 revenue, 0.7% of our 2013 revenue and 1.2% of our 2012 revenue.



Trammell Crow Company acts as the manager of
development projects, providing services that are vital in all stages of the process, including: (i) site identification, due diligence and acquisition; (ii) evaluating project feasibility, budgeting, scheduling and cash flow analysis;
(iii) procurement of approvals and permits, including zoning and other entitlements; (iv) project finance advisory services; (v) coordination of project design and engineering; (vi) construction bidding and management as well as
tenant finish coordination; and (vii) project close-out and tenant move coordination.



Trammell Crow Company pursues development and investment activity on behalf of its user and investor clients (with no ownership), in partnership with its clients (through co-investment – either on an
individual project basis or through programs with certain strategic capital partners) or for its own account (100%







ownership). Development activity in which Trammell Crow Company has an ownership interest is conducted through subsidiaries that are consolidated or unconsolidated for financial reporting
purposes, depending primarily on the extent and nature of our ownership interest.



As of December 31, 2014, our portfolio of consolidated real estate consisted of land, industrial and office properties that are geographically dispersed throughout the United States. Included in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations were rental revenues (which are included in revenue) and expenses (which are included in operating, administrative and other expenses) relating to these operational real estate properties, excluding
those reported as discontinued operations in 2013 and 2012, of $10.7 million and $4.2 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2014, $14.5 million and $6.4 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2013 and $35.4
million and $17.1 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012.



At December 31, 2014, Trammell Crow Company had $5.4 billion of development projects in process. Additionally, the inventory of pipeline deals (prospective projects we believe have a greater than 50%
chance of closing or where land has been acquired and the projected construction start date is more than twelve months out) was $4.0 billion at December 31, 2014.



Competition





Seasonality



A significant portion of our revenue is
seasonal, which an investor should keep in mind when comparing our financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Historically, our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities tend to
be lowest in the first quarter, and highest in the fourth quarter of each year. Earnings and cash flow have generally been concentrated in the fourth quarter due to the focus on completing sales, financing and leasing transactions prior to calendar
year-end.







Employees



At December 31, 2014, excluding our independent affiliates, we had more than 52,000 employees worldwide, approximately 43% of which
represent costs that are fully reimbursed by clients and are mostly in our outsourcing services lines of business. At December 31, 2014, 1,222 of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements, most of whom are on-site employees
in our asset services business in California, Illinois, New Jersey and New York.



Intellectual Property



We hold various trademarks and trade names worldwide, which include the “CBRE” name as well as our prior “CB Richard Ellis” name. Although we believe our intellectual property plays a
role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve, we do not believe we would be materially, adversely affected by expiration or termination of our trademarks or trade names or the loss of any of our other
intellectual property rights other than the “CBRE,” “CB Richard Ellis” and “Trammell Crow” names. With respect to the CBRE and CB Richard Ellis names, we maintain trademark registrations for these service marks in
jurisdictions where we conduct significant business.



We hold a license to use the “Trammell Crow” trade name pursuant to a license agreement with CF98, L.P., an affiliate of Crow Realty Investors, L.P., d/b/a Crow Holdings, which may be revoked if
we fail to satisfy usage and quality control covenants under the license agreement.



In addition to trade names, we have developed proprietary technologies for the provision of complex services and analysis through our global outsourcing business and for preparing and developing valuation
reports for our clients through our valuation business. We also offer proprietary research to clients through our CBRE-EA research unit and we offer proprietary investment analysis and structures through CBRE Global Investors. We have not generally
registered these items of intellectual property in any jurisdiction. While we may seek to secure our rights under applicable intellectual property protection laws in these and any other proprietary assets that we use in our business, we do not
believe any of these other items of intellectual property are material to our business in the aggregate.



Environmental Matters









While we are aware of the presence or the potential presence of regulated substances in the
soil or groundwater at or near several properties owned, operated or managed by us that may have resulted from historical or ongoing activities on those properties, we are not aware of any material noncompliance with the environmental laws or
regulations currently applicable to us, and we are not the subject of any material claim for liability with respect to contamination at any location. However, these laws and regulations may discourage sales and leasing activities and mortgage
lending with respect to some properties, which may adversely affect both the commercial real estate services industry and us in general. Environmental contamination or other environmental liabilities may also negatively affect the value of
commercial real estate assets held by entities that are managed by our investment management and development services businesses, which could adversely affect the results of operations of these business lines.



Available Information



Our internet address iswww.cbre.com. We use our
website as a channel of distribution for Company information, and financial and other material information regarding us is routinely posted and accessible on our website.



On the Investor Relations page on our website, we post the
following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC: our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, our Quarterly Reports
on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website
other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including reports filed by our officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act.



All of the information on our Investor Relations web page is
available to be viewed free of charge. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in the Annual
Report on Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law.



A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is available without charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, CBRE Group, Inc., 200
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166. The SEC also maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.



