Item 1. Business



Company Overview





During the year ended December 31, 2011, we generated revenue from a well-balanced, highly diversified base of clients that includes approximately 80 of theFortune 100companies. We estimate
that the following client types accounted for the highest proportion of revenue in 2011:



•corporations (42%);



•insurance companies and banks (17%); and



•pension funds and advisors (9%).



The following client types accounted for the remainder of our revenue:



•real estate investment trusts, or REITs, (8%);



•individuals and partnerships (7%);



•government agencies ( 6%); and



•other (11%).



Property owners, occupiers and investors continue to consolidate their service needs with fewer providers, and are awarding their business
to firms that have strong capabilities in leading markets and the ability to provide a complete range of services. We believe we are well positioned to capture a growing and disproportionate share of the business being awarded as a result of these
trends.



In 2011, we were the highest ranked
commercial real estate services company among theFortuneMost Admired Companies, and achieved the highest brand reputation ranking among all commercial real estate companies in a survey ofWall Street Journalsubscribers. Since 2006,
we have been the only commercial real estate services company included in the S&P 500. In every year since 2008, we have been the only commercial real estate services firm to be included in theFortune 500. Additionally, the International
Association of Outsourcing Professionals has included us among the top 100 global outsourcing companies across all industries for five consecutive years, including in 2011, when we ranked 6th overall and were the highest ranked commercial real
estate services company.







CBRE History



CBRE marked its 105thyear of continuous operations in 2011, tracing our origins to a
company founded in San Francisco in the aftermath of the 1906 earthquake. Since then, we have grown into the largest global commercial real estate services firm (in terms of 2011 revenue) through organic growth and a series of strategic
acquisitions, including the December 2006 purchase of Trammell Crow Company, which significantly deepened our outsourcing service offerings, and the 2011 REIM Acquisitions described below.



In 2011, we completed a series of strategic transactions with Netherlands-based ING Group N.V. and its
affiliates (ING), which bolstered our global real estate investment management business. We acquired substantially all of ING’s Real Estate Investment Management (REIM) operations in Europe and Asia, and its U.S.-based global real estate listed
securities business, Clarion Real Estate Securities (CRES), for over $810 million in cash (which we refer to as the REIM Acquisitions). In addition, we acquired co-investment interests totaling approximately $80 million.



These former ING businesses are now part of our independently
operated Global Investment Management segment, which conducts business through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, CBRE Global Investors. The REIM and CRES businesses are highly complementary, with little overlap in client base and different
investment strategies. CBRE Global Investors has traditionally focused on value-add funds and separate accounts. The REIM and CRES businesses have primarily focused on core funds and global listed real estate securities funds, except in Asia, where
REIM manages value-add and opportunistic funds. The combined entity provides us with a significantly enhanced ability to meet the needs of institutional investors across global markets with a full spectrum of investment programs and strategies. As
of December 31, 2011, CBRE Global Investors’ assets under management, or AUM, totaled $94.1 billion, which includes AUM acquired in the REIM Acquisitions.



The REIM Acquisitions were completed during 2011 as follows:



Closing DateBusiness AcquiredPurchase PriceCo-investment AmountJuly 1CRES$323.9 million$58.6 millionOctober 3REIM Asia$45.6 million$13.9 millionOctober 31REIM Europe$442.5 million$7.4 million



We have also historically
enhanced and complemented our global capabilities through the acquisition of regional and specialty-niche firms that are leaders in their areas of concentration or in their local markets, including regional firms with which we had previous affiliate
relationships. These “in-fill” acquisitions remain an integral part of our long-term strategy. CBRE Group, Inc., formerly CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., was incorporated on February 20, 2001, and changed its name to CBRE Group, Inc.
effective October 3, 2011.



Our Regions of Operation and
Principal Services



CBRE Group, Inc. is a
holding company that conducts all of its operations through its indirect subsidiaries. CBRE Services, Inc., our direct wholly-owned subsidiary, is also generally a holding company and is the primary obligor or issuer with respect to most of our
long-term indebtedness.



We report our operations
through the following segments: (1) Americas, (2) Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, (3) Asia Pacific, (4) Global Investment Management and (5) Development Services.



Information regarding revenue and operating income or loss,
attributable to each of our segments, is included in “Segment Operations” within the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section and within Note 21 of our Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. Information concerning the identifiable assets of each of our business segments is also set forth in Note 21 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is
incorporated herein by reference.







The Americas



The Americas is our largest business segment, comprised of operations throughout the United States and Canada
as well as key markets in Latin America. Our operations are largely wholly-owned, but also include independent affiliated offices, which license the use of the “CBRE” and “CB Richard Ellis” names in their local markets in return
for payments of annual royalty fees to us and an agreement to cross-refer business between us and the affiliate.



Most of our operations are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE, Inc. Our mortgage loan origination, sales and
servicing operations are conducted exclusively through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary operating under the name CBRE Capital Markets and its subsidiaries. Our operations in Canada are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE
Limited. Both CBRE Capital Markets and CBRE Limited are subsidiaries of CBRE, Inc.



Our Americas segment accounted for 62.2% of our 2011 revenue, 62.9% of our 2010 revenue and 62.3% of our 2009 revenue. Within our Americas segment, we organize our services into the following business
areas:



Advisory Services



Our advisory services businesses offer occupier/tenant and
investor/owner services that meet the full spectrum of marketplace needs, including (1) real estate services, (2) capital markets and (3) valuation. Our advisory services business line accounted for 34.5% of our 2011 consolidated
worldwide revenue, 35.0% of our 2010 consolidated worldwide revenue and 30.8% of our 2009 consolidated worldwide revenue.



Within advisory services, our major service lines are the following:



•Real Estate Services.We provide strategic advice and execution to owners, investors and occupiers of real estate in connection
with leasing, disposition and acquisition of property. Our years of strong local market presence have allowed us to develop significant repeat business from existing clients, including approximately 53% of our revenues from existing U.S. real estate
sales and leasing clients in 2011. This includes referrals from our contractual fee-for-services businesses, such as facilities and property management, mortgage loan servicing and investment management provided by CBRE Global Investors. Our real
estate services professionals are particularly adept at aligning real estate strategies with client business objectives, serving as advisors as well as transaction executors. We believe we are a market leader for the provision of sales and leasing
real estate services in most top U.S. metropolitan statistical areas (as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau), including Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New York and Philadelphia.



Our real estate services professionals are compensated
primarily through commission-based programs, which are payable upon completion of an assignment. Therefore, as compensation is our largest expense, this cost structure gives us flexibility to mitigate the negative effect on our operating margins
during difficult market conditions. Due to the low barriers to entry and significant competition for quality employees, we strive to retain top professionals through an attractive compensation program tied to productivity. We believe we invest in
greater support resources than most other firms, including professional development and training, market research and information, technology, branding and marketing. We also foster an entrepreneurial culture that emphasizes client service and
rewards performance.



We further strengthen our
relationships with our real estate services clients by offering proprietary research to them through our commercial real estate market information and forecasting unit, CBRE Econometric Advisors (CBRE-EA). This group provides data and analysis to
its clients in various formats, including market outlook reports for the office, industrial, hotel, retail and multi-housing sectors, covering more than 125 metropolitan areas in the United States and Canada.



•Capital Markets.We offer clients fully integrated investment sales and debt/equity financing services under the CBRE Capital Markets
brand. The tight integration of these services fosters collaboration between our investment sales and debt/equity financing professionals, helping to meet the marketplace







demand for comprehensive capital markets solutions. During 2011, we concluded more than $61.4 billion of capital markets transactions in the Americas, including $41.5 billion of investment sales
transactions and $19.9 billion of mortgage loan originations and sales.





•Valuation. We provide valuation services that include market value appraisals, litigation support, discounted cash flow analyses and
feasibility and fairness opinions. Our valuation business has developed proprietary technology for preparing and delivering valuation reports to our clients, which we believe provides us with an advantage over our competitors. We believe that our
valuation business is one of the largest in the industry. During 2011, we completed over 34,000 valuation, appraisal and advisory assignments.



Outsourcing Services



Outsourcing commercial real estate services is a long-term trend in our industry, with corporations, institutions, public sector entities,
health care providers and others seeking to achieve improved efficiency, better execution and lower costs by relying on the expertise of third-party real estate specialists. Our outsourcing services primarily include two major business lines that
seek to capitalize on this trend: (1) corporate services and (2) asset services. Agreements with our corporate services clients are generally long-term arrangements and although they contain different provisions for termination, there are
usually penalties for early termination. Although our management agreements with our asset services clients generally may be terminated with notice ranging between 30 to 90 days, we have developed long-term relationships with many of these clients
and we continue to work closely with them to implement their specific goals and objectives and to preserve and expand upon these relationships. As of December 31, 2011, we managed approximately 1.4 billion square feet of commercial space for
property owners and occupiers, which we believe represents one of the largest portfolios in the Americas. Our outsourcing services business line accounted for 27.7% of our 2011 consolidated worldwide revenue, 27.9% of our 2010 consolidated worldwide
revenue and 31.5% of our 2009 consolidated worldwide revenue.



•Corporate Services. We provide a comprehensive suite of services to corporate users of real estate, including transaction management,
project management, facilities management, strategic consulting, portfolio management and other services. Our clients are leading global corporations, health care providers and public sector entities with large, geographically-diverse real estate
portfolios. Project management services are typically provided on a portfolio-wide or programmatic basis. Facilities management involves the day-to-day management of client-occupied space and includes headquarter buildings, regional offices,
administrative offices and manufacturing and distribution facilities. We identify best practices, implement technology solutions and leverage our resources to control clients’ facilities costs and enhance the workplace environment. We enter
into multi-year, multi-service outsourcing contracts with our clients, but often also provide services on a one-off assignment or a







short-term contract basis. The long-term, contractual nature of these relationships enables us to devise and execute real estate strategies that support our clients’ overall business
strategies. Revenues for project management include fixed management fees, variable fees, and incentive fees if certain agreed-upon performance targets are met. Revenues may also include reimbursement of payroll and related costs for personnel
providing the services. Contracts for facilities management services are typically structured so we receive reimbursement of client-dedicated personnel costs and associated overhead expenses plus a monthly fee, and in some cases, annual incentives
if agreed-upon performance targets are satisfied.



•Asset Services. We provide property management, construction management, marketing, leasing, accounting and financial services on a
contractual basis for income-producing office, industrial and retail properties owned by local, regional and institutional investors. We provide these services through an extensive network of real estate experts in major markets throughout the
United States. These local office teams are supported by a strategic accounts team whose function is to help ensure quality service and to maintain and expand relationships with large institutional clients, including buyers, sellers and landlords
who need to lease, buy, sell and/or finance space. We believe our contractual relationships with these clients put us in an advantageous position to provide other services to them, including refinancing, disposition and appraisal. We typically
receive monthly management fees for the asset services we provide based upon a specified percentage of the monthly rental income or rental receipts generated from the property under management, or in certain cases, the greater of such percentage fee
or a minimum agreed-upon fee. We are also normally reimbursed for our administrative and payroll costs, as well as certain out-of-pocket expenses, directly attributable to the properties under management.



Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)



Our Europe, Middle East and Africa, or
EMEA, segment, operates in 44 countries with operations primarily conducted through a number of indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. The largest operations are located in France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Russia, Spain and the United Kingdom.
Our operations in these countries generally provide a full range of services to the commercial property sector. Additionally, we provide some residential property services, primarily in France, Spain and the United Kingdom. Within EMEA, our services
are organized along the same lines as in the Americas, including brokerage, investment properties, corporate services, valuation/appraisal services, asset management services and facilities management, among others. Our EMEA segment accounted for
18.2% of our 2011 revenue, 18.3% of our 2010 revenue and 19.6% of our 2009 revenue.



In France, we believe we are a market leader in Paris and also have operations in Aix in Provence, Bagnolet, Bordeaux, Lille, Lyon, Marseille, Montreuil, Montrouge, Neuilly Sur Seine, Saint Denis and
Toulouse. Our German operations are located in Berlin, Cologne, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Munich and Stuttgart. Our presence in Italy includes operations in Milan, Modena, Rome and Turin. Our operations in the Netherlands are located in
Amsterdam, Almere, the Hague, Hoofddorp and Rotterdam. Our operations in Russia consist of an office in Moscow. In Spain, we provide full-service coverage through our offices in Barcelona, Madrid, Marbella, Palma de Mallorca and Valencia. We are one
of the leading commercial real estate services companies in the United Kingdom. We have held the leading market position in investment sales in the United Kingdom in each of the past five years, including in 2011. In London, we provide a broad range
of commercial property real estate services to investment and corporate clients, and held the leading market position for space acquisition in 2011 for the second year in a row. We also have regional offices in Birmingham, Bristol, Jersey, Leeds,
Liverpool, Manchester, Sheffield and Southampton as well as offices in Aberdeen, Belfast, Edinburgh and Glasgow managed by our U.K. team.



We also have affiliated offices that provide commercial real estate services under our brand name in several countries throughout Europe,
the Middle East and Africa. Our agreements with these independent offices include licenses to use the “CBRE” and “CB Richard Ellis” names in the relevant territory in return for payments of annual royalty fees to us. In addition,
these agreements also include business cross-referral arrangements between us and our affiliates.







Asia Pacific



Our Asia Pacific segment operates in 13 countries with operations primarily conducted through a number of
indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. We believe that we are one of only a few companies that can provide a full range of real estate services to large corporations throughout the region, similar to the broad range of services provided by our Americas
and EMEA segments. Our principal operations in Asia are located in China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Singapore and South Korea. In addition, we have agreements with affiliate offices in the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia and Malaysia that
generate royalty fees and support cross-referral arrangements similar to our EMEA segment. The Pacific region includes Australia and New Zealand, with principal offices located in Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, Perth, Auckland,
Wellington and Christchurch. Our Asia Pacific segment accounted for 13.4% of our 2011 revenue, 13.1% of our 2010 revenue and 12.6% of our 2009 revenue.



Global Investment Management



Operations in our Global Investment Management segment are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE Global Investors,
LLC and its global affiliates, which we also refer to as CBRE Global Investors. CBRE Global Investors provides investment management services to pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, foundations, endowments and other
institutional investors seeking to generate returns and diversification through investment in real estate. It sponsors investment programs that span the risk/return spectrum across three continents: North America, Europe and Asia. In some
strategies, CBRE Global Investors and its investment teams co-invest with its limited partners. Our Global Investment Management segment accounted for 4.9% of our 2011 revenue, 4.2% of our 2010 revenue and 3.4% of our 2009 revenue. We anticipate
this percentage will increase notably in 2012, reflecting a full year of revenue contribution in 2012 from the REIM Acquisitions, which closed in multiple stages during the second half of 2011.



CBRE Global Investors’ investment programs are organized
into four primary categories, which include direct real estate investments through separate accounts and sponsored equity and debt funds as well as indirect real estate investments through listed securities and multi manager funds of funds. The
investment programs cover the full range of risk strategies from core/core+ to opportunistic. Operationally, a unique investment team executes each investment program within these categories, with the team’s compensation being driven largely by
the investment performance of its particular strategy/fund. This organizational structure is designed to align the interests of team members with those of the firm and its investor clients/partners and to enhance accountability and performance.
Dedicated teams are supported by shared resources such as accounting, financial controls, information technology, investor services and research. CBRE Global Investors has an in-house team of research professionals who focus on investment strategy,
underwriting and forecasting, based in part on market data from our advisory services group.



CBRE Global Investors closed approximately $4.2 billion and $4.1 billion of new acquisitions in 2011 and 2010, respectively. It liquidated $3.1 billion and $2.2 billion of investments in 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Assets under management have increased from $10.0 billion at December 31, 2001 to $94.1 billion at December 31, 2011, representing an approximately 25% compound annual growth rate.



As of December 31, 2011, our portfolio of consolidated
real estate held for investment consisted of one industrial property and three multi-family/residential properties, all located in the United States. Included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were rental revenues (which are
included in revenue) and expenses (which are included in operating, administrative and other expenses) relating to our operational real estate properties, excluding those reported as discontinued operations, of $29.6 million and $13.3 million,
respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011, $41.6 million and $22.4 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010, and $6.6 million and $2.7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009.







Development Services



Operations in our Development Services segment are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries
Trammell Crow Company, Trammell Crow Services, Inc. (both of which merged into Trammell Crow Company, LLC effective January 1, 2012) and certain of its subsidiaries, providing development services primarily in the United States to users of and
investors in commercial real estate, as well as for its own account. Trammell Crow Company pursues opportunistic, risk-mitigated development and investment in commercial real estate across a wide spectrum of property types, including industrial,
office and retail properties; healthcare facilities of all types (medical office buildings, hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers); higher education facilities (primarily student housing); and residential/mixed-use projects. Our Development
Services segment accounted for 1.3% of our 2011 revenue, 1.5% of our 2010 revenue and 2.1% of our 2009 revenue.



Trammell Crow Company acts as the manager of development projects, providing services that are vital in all stages of the process,
including: (i) site identification, due diligence and acquisition; (ii) evaluating project feasibility, budgeting, scheduling and cash flow analysis; (iii) procurement of approvals and permits, including zoning and other entitlements;
(iv) project finance advisory services; (v) coordination of project design and engineering; (vi) construction bidding and management as well as tenant finish coordination; and (vii) project close-out and tenant move coordination.



Trammell Crow Company may pursue development and
investment activity on behalf of its user and investor clients (with no ownership), in partnership with its clients (through co-investment—either on an individual project basis or through a fund or program) or for its own account (100%
ownership). Development activity in which Trammell Crow Company has an ownership interest is conducted through subsidiaries that are consolidated or unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes, depending primarily on the extent and nature of our
ownership interest.



Trammell Crow Company has
established several commingled investment funds to facilitate its pursuit of opportunistic and value-added development and investment projects. In addition, it seeks to channel a large part of its development and investment activity into programs
with certain strategic capital partners.



As of
December 31, 2011, our portfolio of consolidated real estate consisted of land, industrial, office and retail properties and mixed-use projects. These projects are geographically dispersed throughout the United States, except for one project,
which is located in Canada. Included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were rental revenues (which are included in revenue) and expenses (which are included in operating, administrative and other expenses) relating to these
operational real estate properties, excluding those reported as discontinued operations, of $41.1 million and $20.7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011, $46.9 million and $24.6 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2010, and $53.3 million and $31.6 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009.



At December 31, 2011, Trammell Crow Company had $4.9 billion of development projects in process. Additionally, the inventory of
pipeline deals (those projects we are pursuing, which we believe have a greater than 50% chance of closing or where land has been acquired and the project construction start is more than twelve months out) was $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011.



Competition



We compete across a variety of business disciplines within
the commercial real estate industry, including commercial property and corporate facilities management, occupier and property/agency leasing, property sales, valuation, real estate investment management, commercial mortgage origination and
servicing, capital markets (equity and debt) solutions, development services and proprietary research. Each business discipline is highly competitive on an international, national, regional and local level. Although we are the largest commercial
real estate services firm in the world in terms of 2011 revenue, our relative competitive position varies significantly across geographies, property types and services. Depending on the geography, property type or service, we face







competition from other commercial real estate service providers, including outsourcing companies that traditionally competed in limited portions of our facilities management business and have
recently expanded their offerings, in-house corporate real estate departments, developers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers and accounting and consulting firms. Some of these firms may have
greater financial resources than we do. Despite recent consolidation, the commercial real estate services industry remains highly fragmented and competitive. Although many of our competitors are local or regional firms and are substantially smaller
than us, some of these competitors are larger on a local or regional basis. We are also subject to competition from other large multi-national firms that have similar service competencies to ours, including Cushman & Wakefield and Jones
Lang LaSalle as well as national firms such as Grubb & Ellis.



Seasonality



A significant portion of our revenue is seasonal, which can affect an investor’s ability to compare our financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Historically, this
seasonality has caused our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities to be lower in the first two quarters and higher in the third and fourth quarters of each year. Earnings and cash flow have historically been
particularly concentrated in the fourth quarter due to investors and companies focusing on completing transactions prior to calendar year-end. This has historically resulted in lower profits or a loss in the first quarter, with revenue and
profitability improving in each subsequent quarter.



Employees



At December 31, 2011, we had
approximately 34,000 employees worldwide, excluding affiliate offices, approximately 40% of which are in our outsourcing business and are fully reimbursed by our clients. At December 31, 2011, 771 of our employees were subject to collective
bargaining agreements, most of whom are on-site employees in our asset services business in New York, New Jersey, Illinois and California. We believe that relations with our employees are generally good.



Intellectual Property



We hold various trademarks and trade names worldwide, which
include the “CBRE” name. Although we believe our intellectual property plays a role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve, we do not believe we would be materially, adversely affected by
expiration or termination of our trademarks or trade names or the loss of any of our other intellectual property rights other than the “CBRE,” “CB Richard Ellis” and “Trammell Crow” names. With respect to the CBRE and
CB Richard Ellis names, we have processed and continuously maintain trademark registrations for these service marks in the United States and the CBRE and CB Richard Ellis related marks are in registration or in process in most foreign jurisdictions
where we conduct significant business. We obtained our most recent U.S. trademark registrations for the CBRE and CB Richard Ellis related marks in 2005, and these registrations would expire in 2015 if we failed to renew them.



We hold a license to use the “Trammell Crow” trade
name pursuant to a license agreement with CF98, L.P., an affiliate of Crow Realty Investors, L.P., d/b/a Crow Holdings, which may be revoked if we fail to satisfy usage and quality control covenants under the license agreement.



In addition to trade names, we have developed proprietary
technologies for the provision of complex services through our global outsourcing business and for preparing and developing valuation reports for our clients through our valuation business. We also offer proprietary research to clients through our
CBRE-EA research unit and we offer proprietary investment structures through CBRE Global Investors. While we seek to secure our rights under applicable intellectual property protection laws in these and any other proprietary assets that we use in
our business, we do not believe any of these other items of intellectual property are material to our business in the aggregate.







Environmental Matters





While we are aware of the presence or the potential presence of regulated substances in the soil or groundwater at or near several
properties owned, operated or managed by us, which may have resulted from historical or ongoing activities on those properties, we are not aware of any material noncompliance with the environmental laws or regulations currently applicable to us, and
we are not the subject of any material claim for liability with respect to contamination at any location. However, these laws and regulations may discourage sales and leasing activities and mortgage lending with respect to some properties, which may
adversely affect both us and the commercial real estate services industry in general. Environmental contamination or other environmental liabilities may also negatively affect the value of commercial real estate assets held by entities that are
managed by our investment management and development services businesses, which could adversely impact the results of operations of these business lines.



Availability of this Report



Our internet address iswww.cbre.com. On the Investor Relations page on our Web site, we post the following filings as soon as
reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC: our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings on our Investor Relations web page are available to be viewed on this page
free of charge. Information contained on our Web site is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law. A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is available without charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, CBRE Group, Inc., 200 Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10166.



