Item 1. Business



Company Overview



Business Week

Fortune 500

Fortune



During the year ended
December 31, 2009, we generated revenue from a well-balanced, highly diversified base of clients that includes nearly 80 of theFortune 100companies. Many of our clients are consolidating their commercial real estate-related needs with
fewer providers and, as a result, awarding their business to providers that have a strong presence in important markets and the ability to provide a complete range of services worldwide. As a result of this trend and our ability to deliver
comprehensive integrated solutions for our clients’ needs across a wide range of markets, we believe we are well positioned to capture a growing percentage of our clients’ commercial real estate services needs.



CB Richard Ellis History



CB Richard Ellis marked its 103rdyear of continuous operations in 2009, tracing our origins to a
company founded in San Francisco in the aftermath of the 1906 earthquake. That company grew to become one of the largest commercial real estate services firms in the western United States during the 1940s. In the 1960s and 1970s, the company
expanded both its service portfolio and geographic coverage to become a full-service provider with a growing presence throughout the United States.



In 1989, employees and third-party investors acquired the company’s operations to form CB Commercial. Throughout the 1990s, CB
Commercial moved aggressively to accelerate growth and develop and enhance global capabilities to meet client demands. The company acquired leading firms in investment management (Westmark Realty Advisors, now CB Richard Ellis Investors, in 1995),
mortgage banking (L.J. Melody & Company, now operating under the name CBRE Capital Markets, in 1996) and property and corporate facilities management, as well as capital markets and investment management (Koll Real Estate Services, in
1997). In 1996, CB Commercial became a public company.



In 1998, the company, then known as CB Commercial Real Estate Services Group, achieved significant global expansion with the acquisition of REI Limited. REI Limited, which traces its roots to London in 1773, was the holding company for all
“Richard Ellis” operations outside of the United Kingdom. Following the REI Limited acquisition, the company changed its name to CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc. and, later in 1998, acquired the London-based firm of Hillier Parker
May & Rowden, one of the top property services firms







operating in the United Kingdom. With these acquisitions, we believe we became the first real estate services firm with a platform to deliver integrated real estate services across the
world’s major business capitals through one commonly-owned, commonly-managed company.



CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., which was initially known as Blum CB Holding Corp. and later as CBRE Holding, Inc., was formed by an affiliate of Blum Capital Partners, L.P. as a Delaware corporation on
February 20, 2001 for the purpose of acquiring all of the outstanding stock of CB Richard Ellis Services in a “going private” transaction. This transaction, which involved members of our senior management team and affiliates of Blum
Capital Partners and Freeman Spogli & Co., was completed in 2001.



In July 2003, our global position was further solidified as our wholly-owned subsidiary CB Richard Ellis Services and Insignia Financial Group, Inc. (Insignia) were brought together to form a premier,
worldwide, full-service real estate services company. As a result of the Insignia acquisition, we operate globally under the “CB Richard Ellis” brand name, which we believe is a well-recognized brand in virtually all of the world’s
key business centers. In order to enhance our financing flexibility and to provide liquidity for some of our stockholders, in June 2004, we completed an initial public offering of our common stock.



In December 2006, we completed the acquisition of Trammell Crow
Company, our largest acquisition to date, which deepened our outsourcing services offerings for corporate and institutional clients, especially project and facilities management, strengthened our ability to provide integrated account management
solutions across geographies, and established resources and expertise to offer real estate development services throughout the United States.



Beginning in 2005 and continuing throughout 2008, we have supplemented our global capabilities through the acquisition of regional and
specialty-niche firms that are leaders in their areas of concentration or in their local markets, including regional firms with which we had previous affiliate relationships. These “in-fill” acquisitions remain an integral part of our
long-term strategy.



Our Corporate Structure



CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc. is a holding company that conducts
all of its operations through its indirect subsidiaries. CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc., our direct wholly-owned subsidiary, is also generally a holding company and is the primary obligor or issuer with respect to most of our long-term
indebtedness, including our senior secured term loan facilities obtained to finance the acquisition of Trammell Crow Company.



In our Americas segment, most of our advisory services and outsourcing services operations are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary CB Richard Ellis, Inc. Our mortgage loan origination and servicing operations are conducted exclusively through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary operating under the name CBRE Capital Markets and its subsidiaries. Our operations in
Canada are primarily conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CB Richard Ellis Limited.



In our Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, segment, operations are conducted through a number of indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. The
most significant of such subsidiaries include CB Richard Ellis Ltd. (the United Kingdom), CB Richard Ellis Holding SAS (France), CB Richard Ellis SA (Spain), CB Richard Ellis GmbH (Germany), CB Richard Ellis, B.V. (the Netherlands), CB Richard Ellis
LLC (Russia) and CB Richard Ellis SpA (Italy).



In
our Asia Pacific segment, operations are primarily conducted through a number of indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, including CB Richard Ellis Pty Ltd. (Australia), CB Richard Ellis Ltd. (New Zealand), CB Richard Ellis Ltd. (Hong Kong and China),
CB Richard Ellis Korea Co Ltd. (Korea), CB Richard Ellis Pte Ltd. (Singapore), CB Richard Ellis KK (Japan) and CB Richard Ellis South Asia Pte Ltd (India).







Operations in our Global Investment Management segment are conducted through our indirect
wholly-owned subsidiary CB Richard Ellis Investors, L.L.C. and its global affiliates, which we also refer to as CBRE Investors.



Operations in our Development Services segment are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries Trammell Crow Company, Trammell
Crow Services, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries.



Industry
Overview



Our business covers all aspects of
the commercial real estate industry, including commercial property and corporate facilities management, tenant representation, property/agency leasing, property sales, valuation, real estate investment management, commercial mortgage origination and
servicing, capital markets (equity and debt) solutions, development services and proprietary research.



We review, on a quarterly basis, various internally-generated statistics and estimates regarding both office and industrial space within the
U.S. commercial real estate services industry, including the total available “stock” of rentable space and the average rent per square foot of space. Our management believes that changes in the addressable commercial rental market
represented by the product of available stock and rent per square foot provide a reliable estimate of changes in the overall commercial real estate services industry because nearly all segments within the industry are affected by changes in these
two measurements. We estimate that the product of available stock and rent per square foot grew at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 2% from 1999 through 2009.



We believe the key drivers of revenue growth for the largest commercial real estate services companies are
primarily: (1) the continued outsourcing of commercial real estate services, (2) the consolidation of client activities with fewer service providers, (3) the institutional ownership of commercial real estate and (4) the ability
to attract and retain talent.



Outsourcing



Motivated to reduce costs, lower
overhead, improve execution across markets, increase operational efficiency and focus more closely on their core competencies, property owners and occupiers have increasingly been contracting out for their commercial real estate services, including
the following:



•Transaction management—oversight of purchase and sale of properties, execution of lease transactions, renewal of leases, expansion and
relocation of offices and disposition of surplus space;



•Facilities management—oversight of all the operations associated with the functioning of occupied real estate, whether owned or leased,
including engineering services, janitorial services, security services, landscaping and capital improvements and directing and monitoring of various subcontractors;



•Project management—oversight of the design and construction of interior space (as distinct from building design and construction) for space
users and occupiers, including assembling and coordinating contract teams, and creating and managing budgets;



•Portfolio management—analysis of all real estate leases of a client to ensure that it is in compliance with all terms and maintenance of
reports on all lease data, including critical dates such as renewal options, expansion options and termination options, performance of required services and proper charging or payment of costs;



•Construction management—space planning and tenant build-out coordination for investor clients;



•Property management—oversight of the daily operation of a single property or portfolio of properties, including tenant service/relations
and bidding, awarding and administering subcontracts for maintenance, landscaping, security, parking, capital and tenant improvements to implement the owner’s specific property value enhancement objectives through maximization of cash flow; and







•Property accounting—performance of all of the accounting and financial reporting associated with a property or portfolio, including
operating budgets and expenses, rent collection and other accounts receivable, accounts payable, capital and tenant improvements and tenant lease administration.



Consolidation



We believe that major property owners and corporate users are motivated to consolidate their service provider
relationships on a regional, national and global basis to obtain more consistent execution across markets to achieve economies of scale and to benefit from streamlined management oversight and the efficiency of single point of contact service
delivery. As a result, we believe large owners and occupiers are awarding an increasing share of this business to larger commercial real estate services providers, particularly those that provide a full suite of services across geographical
boundaries.



Institutional Ownership of
Commercial Real Estate



Since the mid
1990s, institutional owners, such as real estate investment trusts, or REITs, pension funds, foreign institutions and other financial entities, have acquired more real estate assets. These acquisitions have been motivated by a need to diversify
their investment portfolios. Total U.S. real estate assets held by institutional owners was $424 billion in 2009, up from $361 billion in 1999. Much of that growth has been driven by REITs, which increased their holdings by nearly 23% over this time
period. Although institutional investment in real estate has decreased significantly in the past two years due to market weakness and lower portfolio values, the long term trend of increased institutional ownership remains intact. We believe it is
likely that many institutional owners will outsource management of their portfolios and consolidate their use of real estate services vendors.



Attracting and Retaining Talent



Attracting and retaining the best real estate services professionals is fundamental to a successful growth strategy. A broad global platform,
strong brand and local market leadership position a company well to draw top professionals away from smaller, less diversified firms. This is especially true during periods of slower market activity. Investing heavily in the continuous training,
development and skill-enhancement of existing professionals is key to success in this area.



Our Regions of Operation and Principal Services



We report our operations through five segments. The segments are as follows: (1) Americas, (2) EMEA, (3) Asia Pacific,
(4) Global Investment Management and (5) Development Services.



Information regarding revenue and operating income or loss, attributable to each of our segments, is included in “Segment Operations” within the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section and within Note 23 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. Information concerning the identifiable assets of each of our business
segments is also set forth in Note 23 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference.



The Americas



The Americas segment is our largest segment of operations and provides a comprehensive range of services throughout the United States and in
the largest metropolitan regions in Canada and selected parts of Latin America through both wholly-owned operations as well as affiliated offices. Our Americas segment accounted







for 62.3% of our 2009 revenue, 62.6% of our 2008 revenue and 61.1% of our 2007 revenue. Within our Americas segment, we organize our services into the following business areas:



Advisory Services



Our advisory services businesses offer occupier/tenant and
investor/owner services that meet the full spectrum of marketplace needs, including (1) real estate services, (2) capital markets and (3) valuation. Our advisory services business line accounted for 30.8% of our 2009 consolidated
revenue, 34.6% of our 2008 consolidated revenue and 42.5% of our 2007 consolidated revenue.



Within advisory services, our major service lines are the following:



•Real Estate Services.We provide strategic advice and execution to owners, investors and occupiers of real estate in connection
with leasing, disposition and acquisition of property. These businesses are built upon strong client relationships that frequently lead to recurring revenue opportunities over many years. Our real estate services professionals are particularly adept
at aligning real estate strategies with client business objectives, serving as advisors as well as transaction executors. We believe we are a market leader for the provision of sales and leasing real estate services in most top U.S. metropolitan
statistical areas (as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau), including Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York and Philadelphia.



Our real estate services professionals are compensated primarily through commission-based programs, which are payable upon
completion of an assignment. Therefore, as compensation is our largest expense, this cost structure gives us flexibility to mitigate the negative effect on our operating margins during difficult market conditions. Due to the low barriers to entry
and significant competition for quality employees, we strive to retain top professionals through an attractive compensation program tied to productivity. We also believe we invest in greater support resources than most other firms, including
professional development and training, market research and information, technology, branding and marketing. We also foster an entrepreneurial culture that emphasizes client service and rewards performance.



We further strengthen our relationships with our real estate
services clients by offering proprietary research to them through our commercial real estate market information and forecasting unit, CBRE Econometric Advisors (formerly CBRE Torto Wheaton Research). This group provides data and analysis to its
clients in various formats, including market outlook reports for the office, industrial, hotel, retail and multi-housing sectors, covering more than 55 U.S. metropolitan statistical areas through the CBRE-EA Peer Select office product, including a
database covering over 300,000 office and industrial properties.



•Capital Markets.In 2005, we combined our investment sales and debt/equity financing professionals into a single fully integrated service
offering called CBRE Capital Markets. The move formalized the collaboration between our investment sales professionals and debt/equity financing experts that has grown as investors have sought comprehensive capital markets solutions, rather than
separate sales and financing transactions. During 2009, we concluded more than $16.3 billion of capital markets transactions in the Americas, including $10.0 billion of investment sales transactions and $6.3 billion of mortgage loan originations.



Our Investment Properties
business, which includes office, industrial, retail, multi-family and hotel properties, is one of the largest investment sales property advisors in the United States, with a market share of approximately 15% in 2009, down from approximately 18% in
2008. Our U.S. investment sales activity decreased by approximately 69% during 2009 versus a decrease of approximately 63% for the U.S. market as a whole. Our mortgage brokerage business originates and services commercial mortgage loans primarily
through relationships established with investment banking firms, national banks, credit companies, insurance companies, pension funds and government agencies. Our mortgage loan origination volume in 2009 was $6.3 billion, representing a decrease of
approximately 38% from 2008. Approximately $3.7 billion of loans in 2009 were originated for federal government sponsored entities,







most of which were financed through revolving credit lines dedicated exclusively for this purpose. Loans financed through the revolving credit lines generally occur with principal risk that is
substantially mitigated because before the loan is originated, we obtain either a contractual purchase commitment from the government sponsored entity or a confirmed forward trade commitment for the issuance and purchase of a mortgage backed
security that will be secured by the loan. In 2009, GEMSA Loan Services, a joint venture between CBRE Capital Markets and GE Capital Real Estate, serviced approximately $116.2 billion of mortgage loans, $59.0 billion of which relate to the servicing
rights of CBRE Capital Markets.



•Valuation. We provide valuation services that include market value appraisals, litigation support, discounted cash flow analyses and
feasibility and fairness opinions. Our valuation business has developed proprietary technology for preparing and delivering valuation reports to our clients, which we believe provides us with an advantage over our competitors. We believe that our
valuation business is one of the largest in the industry. During 2009, we completed over 30,000 valuation, appraisal and advisory assignments.



Outsourcing Services



Outsourcing is a long-term trend in commercial real estate, with corporations, institutions, public sector entities and others seeking to
achieve improved efficiency, better execution and lower costs by relying on the expertise of third-party real estate specialists. Our outsourcing services primarily include two major business lines that seek to capitalize on this trend:
(1) corporate services and (2) asset services. Agreements with our corporate services clients are generally long-term arrangements and although they contain different provisions for termination, there are usually penalties for early
termination. Although our management agreements with our asset services clients generally may be terminated with notice ranging between 30 to 90 days, we have developed long-term relationships with many of these clients and we continue to work
closely with them to implement their specific goals and objectives and to preserve and expand upon these relationships. As of December 31, 2009, we managed nearly 1.2 billion square feet of commercial space for property owners and occupiers,
which we believe represents one of the largest portfolios in the Americas. Our outsourcing services business line accounted for 31.5% of our 2009 consolidated revenue, 28.0% of our 2008 consolidated revenue and 18.6% of our 2007 consolidated
revenue.





•



Corporate Services



•Asset Services. We provide property management, construction management, marketing, leasing, accounting and financial services on a
contractual basis for income-producing office, industrial and retail properties owned by local, regional and institutional investors. We provide these services through







an extensive network of real estate experts in major markets throughout the United States. These local office delivery teams are supported by a strategic accounts team whose function is to help
ensure quality service and to maintain and expand relationships with large institutional clients, including buyers, sellers and landlords who need to lease, buy, sell and/or finance space. We believe our contractual relationships with these clients
put us in an advantageous position to provide other services to them, including refinancing, disposition and appraisal. We typically receive monthly management fees for the asset services we provide based upon a specified percentage of the monthly
rental income or rental receipts generated from the property under management, or in certain cases, the greater of such percentage fee or a minimum agreed-upon fee. We are also normally reimbursed for our administrative and payroll costs, as well as
certain out-of-pocket expenses, directly attributable to the properties under management.



Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)



Our EMEA segment operates in 37 countries, with its largest operations located in the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Germany, the
Netherlands, Russia and Italy. Within EMEA, our services are organized along the same lines as in the Americas, including brokerage, investment properties, corporate services, valuation/appraisal services, asset management services and facilities
management, among others. Our EMEA segment accounted for 19.6% of our 2009 revenue, 21.1% of our 2008 revenue and 21.8% of our 2007 revenue.



We are one of the leading commercial real estate services companies in the United Kingdom. We hold the leading market position in London in
terms of 2009 leased square footage and provide a broad range of commercial property real estate services to investment, commercial and corporate clients located in London. We also have 11 regional offices in Aberdeen, Birmingham, Bristol, Jersey,
Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Edinburgh, Southampton and Glasgow. In France, we believe we are a market leader in Paris and we provide a complete range of services to the commercial property sector. In Spain, we provide full-service coverage through
our offices in Madrid, Marbella, Barcelona, Zaragoza, Valencia, Malaga and Palma de Mallorca. Our German operations are located in Berlin, Cologne, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Munich and Stuttgart. Our operations in the Netherlands are
located in Amsterdam, Almere, Hoofddorp and the Hague. Our operations in Russia consist of an office in Moscow. Our presence in Italy includes offices in Milan, Modena, Rome and Turin. Our operations in these countries generally provide a full range
of services to the commercial property sector. Additionally, we provide some residential property services, primarily in the United Kingdom, France and Spain.



We also have affiliated offices that provide commercial real estate services under our brand name in several countries throughout Europe,
the Middle East and Africa. Our agreements with these independent offices include licenses to use the “CB Richard Ellis” name in the relevant territory in return for payments to us of annual royalty fees. In addition, these agreements also
include business cross-referral arrangements between us and our affiliates.



Asia Pacific



Our Asia Pacific segment operates in 13 countries. We believe that we are one of only a few companies that can provide a full range of real estate services to large corporations throughout the region,
similar to the broad range of services provided by our Americas and EMEA segments. Our principal operations in Asia are located in China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Singapore and South Korea. In addition, we have agreements with affiliate offices in
the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, Cambodia and Malaysia that generate royalty fees and support cross-referral arrangements on terms similar to those with our affiliated offices in our EMEA segment. The Pacific region includes Australia
and New Zealand, with principal offices located in Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, Perth, Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch. Our Asia Pacific segment accounted for 12.6% of our 2009 revenue, 10.9% of our 2008 revenue and 9.1% of
our 2007 revenue.







Global Investment Management



Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, CB Richard Ellis
Investors, L.L.C. and its global affiliates, which we also refer to as CBRE Investors, provide investment management services to clients/partners that include pension plans, foundations, endowments and other organizations seeking to generate returns
and diversification through investment in real estate. It sponsors investment programs that span the risk/return spectrum across three continents: North America, Europe and Asia. In higher yield strategies, CBRE Investors and its investment teams
“co-invest” with its limited partners. Our Global Investment Management segment accounted for 3.4% of our 2009 revenue, 3.1% of our 2008 revenue and 5.8% of our 2007 revenue.



CBRE Investors is organized into four primary investment execution groups according to strategy, which include
direct real estate investments through the Managed Accounts Group (low risk), Strategic Partners (higher yielding strategies), Capital Partners (higher yielding debt strategies) and indirect real estate investments in real estate securities and
unlisted property funds (multiple risk strategies). Operationally, a dedicated investment team executes each investment strategy, with the team’s compensation being driven largely by the investment performance of its particular strategy/fund.
This organizational structure is designed to align the interests of team members with those of the firm and its investor clients/partners and to enhance accountability and performance. Dedicated teams are supported by shared resources such as
accounting, financial controls, information technology, investor services and research. CBRE Investors has an in-house team of research professionals who focus on investment strategy, underwriting and forecasting, based in part on research from our
advisory services group.



CBRE Investors closed
approximately $1.7 billion and $5.3 billion of new acquisitions in 2009 and 2008, respectively. It liquidated $0.8 billion and $1.2 billion of investments in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Assets under management have increased from $8.4 billion at
December 31, 1999 to $34.7 billion at December 31, 2009, representing an approximately 15% compound annual growth rate.



Development Services



Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Trammell Crow Company and certain of its subsidiaries provide development services primarily in the
United States to users of and investors in commercial real estate, as well as for its own account. Trammell Crow Company pursues opportunistic but risk-mitigated development and investment in commercial real estate across a wide spectrum of property
types, including industrial, office and retail properties; healthcare facilities of all types (medical office buildings, hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers); higher education facilities (primarily student housing); and residential/mixed-use
projects. Our Development Services segment accounted for 2.1% of our 2009 revenue, 2.3% of our 2008 revenue and 2.2% of our 2007 revenue.



Trammell Crow Company acts as the manager of development projects, providing services that are vital in all stages of the process, including:
(i) site identification, due diligence and acquisition; (ii) evaluating project feasibility, budgeting, scheduling and cash flow analysis; (iii) procurement of approvals and permits, including zoning and other entitlements;
(iv) project finance advisory services; (v) coordination of project design and engineering; (vi) construction bidding and management as well as tenant finish coordination; and (vii) project close-out and tenant move coordination.



Trammell Crow Company may pursue development and
investment activity on behalf of its user and investor clients (with no ownership), in partnership with its clients (through co-investment—either on an individual project basis or through a fund or program) or for its own account (100%
ownership). Development activity in which Trammell Crow Company has an ownership interest is conducted through subsidiaries that are consolidated or unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes, depending primarily on the extent and nature of our
ownership interest.







Trammell Crow Company has established several commingled investment funds to facilitate its
pursuit of opportunistic and value added development and investment projects. In addition, it seeks to channel a large part of its development and investment activity into programs with certain strategic capital partners.



At December 31, 2009, Trammell Crow Company had $4.7
billion of development projects in process. Additionally, the inventory of pipeline deals (those projects we are pursuing, which we believe have a greater than 50% chance of closing or where land has been acquired and the project construction start
is more than twelve months out) was $0.9 billion at December 31, 2009.



Our Competitive Position



We believe we possess several competitive strengths that position us to capitalize on the underlying trends in the commercial real estate services industry, which include increased outsourcing,
consolidation of service providers and institutional ownership of real estate. Our strengths include the following:



•Global Brand and Market Leading Positions.For more than 100 years, we have built CB Richard Ellis into one of the foremost brands
in the industry. We are the world’s largest commercial real estate services provider, based on 2009 revenue, and one of only three commercial real estate services companies with a global footprint. As a result of our strong brand and global
footprint, large corporations, institutional owners and users of real estate recognize us as a leading provider of world-class, comprehensive real estate services. Operating under the global CB Richard Ellis brand name, we are the leader in many of
the local markets in which we operate, including New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and London.



•Full Service Capabilities.We provide one of the broadest ranges of first-class real estate services in the industry and provide
these services in major metropolitan areas throughout the world. When combined with our extensive global reach and localized market knowledge, this full range of real estate services enables us to provide world-class service to our multi-regional
and multi-national clients, as well as to maximize our revenue per client.



•Strong Client Relationships and Client-tailored Service. We have forged long-term relationships with many of our clients. During the year
ended December 31, 2009, our clients included nearly 80 of theFortune 100companies. In order to better satisfy the needs of our largest clients and to capture cross-selling opportunities, we have organized several fully-integrated
client coverage teams comprised of senior management, a global relationship manager and regional and product specialists.



•Attractive Business Model. Our business model features a diversified service offering and client base, recurring revenue streams, a
variable cost structure, low capital requirements and a strong senior management team and workforce.



•Diversified Service Offering and Client Base. Our broad service offering, global footprint and extensive client relationships provide us
with a diversified revenue base. For 2009, we estimate that corporations accounted for approximately 42% of our revenue, insurance companies and banks accounted for approximately 20% of our revenue, pension funds and their advisors accounted for
approximately 10% of our revenue, individuals and partnerships accounted for approximately 8% of our revenue, REITs accounted for approximately 5% of our revenue and other types of clients accounted for the remainder of our revenue.



•Recurring Revenue Streams. Our years of strong local market presence have allowed us to develop significant repeat business from existing
clients, including from approximately 68% of our U.S. real estate sales and leasing clients in 2009. This includes referrals associated with our contractual fee-for-services businesses, which generally involve facilities management, property
management and mortgage loan servicing, as well as asset management provided by CBRE Investors. Our contractual, fee-for-service business represented approximately 43% of our 2009 revenue.







•Variable Cost Structure. Compensation is our largest expense and our sales and leasing professionals are generally paid on a commission
and bonus basis, which correlates with our revenue performance. This cost structure provides us with flexibility to mitigate the negative effect on our operating margins during difficult market conditions, such as those experienced in 2008 and 2009.
However, our cost structure also includes significant other operating expenses that may not correlate to our revenue performance, including office lease and information technology maintenance, insurance premiums and other support services expenses.
In addition, we have a proven record of reducing fixed expenses aggressively when revenue weakens, such as we did in 2008 and 2009.



•Low Capital Requirements.Our business model is structured to provide value-added services with low capital intensity. During
2009, our net capital expenditures were less than 1% of our revenue.



•Strong Senior Management Team and Workforce. Our most important asset is our people. We have recruited a talented and motivated work
force of approximately 29,000 employees worldwide, excluding affiliate offices, who are supported by a strong and deep senior management team consisting of a number of highly-respected executives, most of whom have over 20 years of broad experience
in the real estate industry. In addition, we use equity compensation to align the interests of our senior management team with the interests of our stockholders.



Although we believe these strengths will continue to create significant opportunities for our business, there
are also risks that may impact our competitive position, which include the following:



•Impact of “Credit Crunch” and Capital Markets Disruption.A significant portion of our business involves the sale and
financing of commercial properties. For example, during 2009, we generated approximately 12% of our revenue from investment sales. The successful completion of sale and financing transactions is dependent on the availability and cost of credit. A
severe disruption in the global capital markets, such as the type that we experienced in 2008 and 2009, and the resulting decline in real estate values may adversely affect our property sales and financing businesses.



•Impact of Weakening Global Economic Activity.A significant portion of our business involves the leasing of space on behalf
of property owners and occupiers. For example, during 2009, we generated approximately 32% of our revenue from leasing activities. The health of leasing markets is dependent on the level of economic activity on a global, regional and local basis. A
significant slowdown in overall economic activity, or a contraction of activity, such as that which occurred in the United States and Europe in 2008 and for most of 2009, may continue to adversely affect our leasing business. Economic weakness in
2009 also adversely affected our outsourcing business by curbing corporate spending on real estate facilities.





•



Leverage

.







•Smaller Presence in Some Markets than our Local Competitors. Although we are the largest commercial real estate services firm in the
world in terms of 2009 revenue, our relative competitive position varies significantly across service categories and geographic areas. Depending on the service, we face competition from other real estate service providers, institutional lenders,
insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers and accounting firms, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do. Many of our competitors are local or regional firms. Although substantially smaller than we are,
some of these competitors are larger on a local or regional basis or within certain service categories within these markets.



•Exposure to Risks of International Operations. We conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people
outside of the United States. During 2009, we generated approximately 39% of our revenue from operations outside the United States. Because a significant portion of our revenues are derived from operations outside the United States, we are exposed
to adverse changes in exchange rates and social, political and economic risks of doing business in foreign countries, including the current global economic slowdown.



•Geographic Concentration. During 2009, approximately 10% of our global revenue was generated from transactions originating in California.
In addition, a significant portion of our European operations are concentrated in London and Paris. As a result, continued or future adverse economic conditions in these regions may affect us more than our competitors.



Our Long-Term Growth Strategy



We believe we have built the premier integrated global services
platform in our industry, which gives us a distinct competitive advantage. In developing this integrated global services platform during the 1990s, we acquired such entities as The Koll Company, Westmark Realty Advisors (now known as CBRE
Investors), L.J. Melody & Company (now known as CBRE Capital Markets), REI Limited and Hillier Parker May & Rowden. During the 2000s, we made our largest acquisitions—Insignia and Trammell Crow Company—which added
strength, expertise and resources in comprehensive outsourcing services, integrated account management and real estate development. Today, we believe that we offer the commercial real estate services industry’s most complete suite of services
and that we have a leadership position in many of the top business centers around the world. Our primary business objective is to leverage this platform on a global basis in order to garner an increasing share of industry revenues relative to our
competitors. We believe this will enable us to maximize our long-term cash flow, sustain our competitive advantage and increase long-term stockholder value. Our strategy to achieve these business objectives consists of several elements:



•Increase Revenue from Large Clients.We plan to capitalize on our client management strategy for our large clients, which is
designed to provide them with a full range of services globally while maximizing our revenue per client. We deliver these services through relationship management teams that are charged with thoroughly understanding our customers’ business and
real estate strategies and matching our services to the customers’ requirements. The global relationship manager is a highly seasoned professional who is focused on maximizing revenue per client and who is compensated with a salary and a
performance-based bonus. The team leader is supported by salaried professionals with specialized expertise, such as marketing, financial analysis and construction, and, as needed, taps into our field-level transaction professionals for execution of
client strategies. We believe this approach to client management will lead to stronger client relationships and enable us to maximize cross-selling opportunities and capture a larger share of our clients’ commercial real estate services
expenditures. For example:



•we generated repeat business in 2009 from approximately 68% of our U.S. real estate sales and leasing clients;



•approximately 61% of our corporate services clients today purchase more than one service and, in many cases, more than two; and







•the square footage we manage for our 15 largest U.S. asset services clients has grown by approximately 455% since 2001.



•Capitalize on Cross-selling Opportunities.Because we believe cross-selling represents a large growth opportunity within the
commercial real estate services industry, we are committed to emphasizing this opportunity across all of our clients, services and regions. We organize dedicated teams to assist and supplement our local market professionals in the pursuit of major
assignments and to foster increased cross-selling of the full range of our services. In addition, we have dedicated substantial resources and implemented several initiatives to further develop cross-selling opportunities across our platform,
including our intensive training programs for sales and management professionals, a customer relationship management database and sales management principles and incentives designed to improve individual productivity. We believe our various
initiatives will enable us to further penetrate local markets and better capitalize on our global platform.



•Expansion through In-Fill Acquisitions. Strategic acquisitions have been and will continue to be an integral component of our growth
plans. From 2005 to 2008, we completed 58 in-fill acquisitions for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $592 million. The companies we acquired were generally quality regional firms, niche specialty firms that complemented our existing
platform within a region, or affiliates in which, in some cases, we held an equity interest. We believe that there are a number of other smaller firms throughout the world that may be suitable acquisition candidates for us. We expect that each of
these acquisitions would generally be less than $100 million in total consideration and would add to our existing geographic and/or line of business platforms. Current market conditions have made acquisition opportunities less attractive in the
short term. However, we believe acquisitions will once again serve as a growth engine, supplementing our organic growth when market conditions improve in the future.



•Focus on Improving Operating Efficiency.We have been focused for several years on realizing efficiencies and service enhancements from
our internal support services and functions, lowering variable expenses such as marketing, travel and entertainment, and reducing total headcount to coincide with decreased revenues. Our efforts have helped to lower operating costs, support profit
margins and improve overall performance. For example, beginning in 2008 and continuing through 2009, we took aggressive actions to further improve efficiencies and contain costs in response to weakened macro market conditions. As a result of these
actions, operating expenses fell by nearly 21% in 2009 compared to 2008, exceeding the 19% decline in revenue over the same period. These cost reduction efforts resulted in a significantly lower cost base. We will continue to look for ways to
realize further operational efficiencies and cost savings in order to maximize our operating margins and cash flow in the future.



Competition









Different factors weigh heavily in the competition for clients. In advisory services, key
differentiating factors include quality service, resource depth, demonstrated track record, brand reputation, analytical skills, market knowledge, strategic thinking and creative problem-solving. These factors are also vital in outsourcing services,
and are supplemented by consistency of execution across markets, economies of scale, enhanced efficiency and cost reduction strategies. In investment management and development services, the ability to enhance asset value and produce solid,
consistent returns on invested capital are keys to success.



Seasonality



A significant
portion of our revenue is seasonal, which can affect an investor’s ability to compare our financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Historically, this seasonality has caused our revenue, operating income, net
income and cash flows from operating activities to be lower in the first two quarters and higher in the third and fourth quarters of each year. Earnings and cash flow have historically been particularly concentrated in the fourth quarter due to
investors and companies focusing on completing transactions prior to calendar year-end. This has historically resulted in lower profits or a loss in the first and second quarters, with revenue and profitability improving in each subsequent quarter.



Employees



At December 31, 2009, we had approximately 29,000
employees worldwide, excluding affiliate offices, many of which are in our outsourcing operations and are fully reimbursed by our clients. At December 31, 2009, 511 of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements, most of whom
are on-site employees in our asset services business in the New York/New Jersey, Illinois and California areas. We believe that relations with our employees are satisfactory.



Intellectual Property



We hold various trademarks and trade names worldwide, which include the “CB Richard Ellis” name. Although we believe our
intellectual property plays a role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve, we do not believe we would be materially, adversely affected by expiration or termination of our trademarks or trade names or the
loss of any of our other intellectual property rights other than the “CB Richard Ellis”, the “CBRE” and the “Trammell Crow” names. With respect to the CB Richard Ellis and CBRE names, we have processed and continuously
maintain trademark registrations for these service marks in the United States and the CB Richard Ellis and CBRE related marks are in registration or in process in most foreign jurisdictions where we conduct significant business. We obtained our most
recent U.S. trademark registrations for the CB Richard Ellis and CBRE related marks in 2005, and these registrations would expire in 2015 if we failed to renew them.



We hold a license to use the “Trammell Crow” trade name pursuant to a license agreement with CF98, L.P., an
affiliate of Crow Realty Investors, L.P., d/b/a Crow Holdings, which is wholly-owned by certain descendents and affiliates of Mr. Trammell Crow. See “Risk Factors—We license the use of the Trammell Crow trade name and this license is
not exclusive and may be revoked” for additional information.



In addition to trade names, we have developed proprietary technology for preparing and developing valuation reports to our clients through our valuation business and we offer proprietary research to
clients through our CBRE Econometric Advisors research unit. We also offer proprietary investment structures through CBRE Investors. While we seek to secure our rights under applicable intellectual property protection laws in these and any other
proprietary assets that we use in our business, we do not believe any of these other items of intellectual property are material to our business in the aggregate.







Environmental Matters



Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose environmental liabilities, controls, disclosure rules and zoning
restrictions that impact the ownership, management, development, use, or sale of commercial real estate. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose liability on current or previous real property owners or operators for the cost of
investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at a property, including contamination resulting from above-ground or underground storage tanks at a property. If contamination occurs or is present during
our role as a property or facility manager or developer, we could be held liable for such costs as a current “operator” of a property.



Such liability may be imposed without regard for the legality of the acts or omissions that caused the contamination and without regard to
whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances, and such liability may be joint and several with any other parties that are deemed legally liable for the contamination. The operator of a site also may
be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from exposure to hazardous substances or environmental contamination at a site, including liabilities arising from exposure to asbestos-containing materials. If the
liability is joint and several, we could be responsible for payment of the full amount of the liability, whether or not any other responsible party is also liable. Under certain laws and common law principles, any failure by us to disclose
environmental contamination at a property could subject us to liability to a buyer or lessee of the property. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on a contaminated site for costs that a governmental entity incurs in connection with
the contamination.



Some of the properties owned,
operated or managed by us are in the vicinity of properties which are currently, or have been, the site of releases of regulated substances and remediation activity, and we are currently aware of several properties owned, operated or managed by us
which may be impacted by regulated substances which may have migrated from adjacent or nearby properties or which may be within the borders of areas suspected to be impacted by regional groundwater contamination.



While we are aware of the presence or the potential presence of
regulated substances in the soil or groundwater at several properties owned, operated or managed by us, which may have resulted from historical or ongoing activities on those properties, we are not aware of any material noncompliance with the
environmental laws or regulations currently applicable to us, and we are not the subject of any material claim for liability with respect to contamination at any location. However, these laws and regulations may discourage sales and leasing
activities and mortgage lending with respect to some properties, which may adversely affect both us and the commercial real estate services industry in general. Environmental contamination or other environmental liabilities may also negatively
affect the value of commercial real estate assets held by entities that are managed by our investment management and development services businesses, which could adversely impact the results of operations of these business lines.



Availability of this Report



Our internet address iswww.cbre.com. On the Investor Relations page on our Web site, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: our Annual Report
on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings on our
Investor Relations web page are available to be viewed on this page free of charge. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law. A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is
available without charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, CB Richard Ellis Group, Inc., 200 Park Avenue, 17thFloor, New York, New York 10166.







