Item 1. Business



Company Overview



CBRE Group, Inc. is a Delaware corporation. References to
“the company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to CBRE Group, Inc. and include all of its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or the context requires otherwise.



We are the world’s largest commercial real estate
services and investment firm, based on 2016 revenue, with leading full-service operations in major metropolitan areas throughout the world. We provide services in the office, retail, industrial, multifamily and hotel sectors of commercial real
estate. As of December 31, 2016, we operated in approximately 450 offices worldwide with more than 75,000 employees excluding independent affiliates. We serve clients with people in more than 100 countries.



We provide commercial real estate services under the
“CBRE” brand name, investment management services under the “CBRE Global Investors” brand name and development services under the “Trammell Crow Company” brand name. Our business is focused on commercial property,
corporate facilities, project and transaction management, tenant/occupier and property/agency leasing, capital markets solutions (property sales, commercial mortgage brokerage, loan origination and servicing) real estate investment management,
valuation, development services and proprietary research. We generate revenue from both management fees (large multi-year portfolio andper-projectcontracts) and from commissions on transactions. Our
contractual,fee-for-servicesbusinesses generally involve occupier outsourcing (including facilities and project management), property management, investment
management, appraisal/valuation and loan servicing). In addition, our leasing services business line is largely recurring in nature over time. Our revenue mix has shifted in recent years toward more contractual revenue as occupiers and investors
increasingly prefer to purchase integrated, account-based services from firms that meet the full spectrum of their needs nationally and globally. We believe we are well-positioned to capture a growing share of this business.



In 2016, we generated revenue from a
well-balanced, highly diversified base of clients, including more than 90 of theFortune100 companies. We have been included in theFortune500 since 2008 (ranking #259 in 2016) and among theFortuneMost Admired Companies
in the real estate sector for five consecutive years, including in 2017. In 2016, we were ranked byForbesas the
15thbest employer in America, and the International
Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) has ranked us among the top few outsourcing service providers across all industries for five consecutive years. Additionally, we were one of only two companies to be ranked in the top 12 in theBarron’s500, which evaluates companies on growth and financial performance, in each of 2014, 2015 and 2016.



CBRE History



We marked our 111th year of continuous operations in 2017, tracing our origins to a company founded in San Francisco in the aftermath of
the 1906 earthquake. Since then, we have grown into the largest global commercial real estate services and investment firm (in terms of 2016 revenue) through organic growth and a series of strategic acquisitions. Among these are the following
acquisitions: Global Workplace Solutions (September 2015); Norland Managed Services Ltd (December 2013); ING Group N.V.’s Real Estate Investment Management (REIM) operations in Europe and Asia (October 2011) and its U.S.-based global real
estate listed securities business (July 2011); and Trammell Crow Company (December 2006).



Our Regions of Operation and Principal Services



CBRE Group, Inc. is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through its indirect subsidiaries. CBRE Group, Inc. does not
have any independent operations or employees. CBRE Services, Inc., our direct wholly-owned subsidiary, is also generally a holding company and is the primary obligor or issuer with respect to most of our long-term indebtedness.







We report our operations through the following segments: (1) Americas; (2) Europe,
Middle East and Africa, or EMEA; (3) Asia Pacific; (4) Global Investment Management; and (5) Development Services.



Information regarding revenue and operating income or loss, attributable to each of our segments, is included in “Segment
Operations” within the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section and within Note 17 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by
reference. Information concerning the identifiable assets of each of our business segments is also set forth in Note 17 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.



The Americas



The Americas is our largest reporting segment, comprised of
operations throughout the United States and Canada as well as key markets in Latin America. Our operations are largely wholly-owned, but also include independent affiliates to whom we license the “CBRE” name in their local markets in
return for payments of annual or quarterly royalty fees to us and an agreement to cross-refer business between us and the affiliate.



Most of our operations are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE, Inc. Our mortgage loan origination, sales and
servicing operations are conducted exclusively through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary operating under the name CBRE Capital Markets, Inc., or CBRE Capital Markets, and its subsidiaries. Our operations in Canada are conducted through our
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE Limited and our operations in Latin America are operated through various indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.



Our Americas segment accounted for 55.3% of our 2016 revenue, 57.0% of our 2015 revenue and 57.5% of our 2014 revenue. Within our Americas
segment, we organize our services into several business lines, as further described below.



Leasing Services



Through our Advisory & Transaction Services business line, we provide strategic advice and execution to owners, investors and occupiers of real estate in connection with leasing. We generate
significant repeat business from existing clients, which, for example, accounted for approximately 70% of our U.S. leasing activity in 2016, including referrals from other parts of our business. We believe we are a market leader for the provision of
these services in most top U.S. metropolitan statistical areas (as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau), including Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York and Philadelphia.



Capital Markets



We offer clients fully integrated property sales and
mortgage and structured financing services under the CBRE Capital Markets brand. The tight integration of these services helps to meet marketplace demand for comprehensive capital markets solutions. During 2016, we concluded approximately
$127.8 billion of capital markets transactions in the Americas, including $89.8 billion of property sales transactions and $38.0 billion of mortgage originations and loan sales.



We are the leading property sales advisor in the United States, accounting for approximately 16.3% of
investment sales transactions greater than $2.5 million across office, industrial, retail, multifamily and hotel properties in 2016, according to Real Capital Analytics. Our mortgage brokerage business brokers, originates and services
commercial mortgage loans primarily through relationships established with investment banking firms, national and regional banks, credit companies, insurance companies, pension funds and government agencies. In the Americas, our mortgage loan
origination volume in 2016 was $37.0 billion, including approximately $16.0 billion for U.S. Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs). Most of the GSE loans were financed







through revolving warehouse credit lines through a CBRE subsidiary that is dedicated exclusively for this purpose and were substantially risk mitigated by either obtaining a contractual purchase
commitment from the GSE or confirming a forward-trade commitment for the issuance and purchase of a mortgage-backed security that will be secured by the loan. We advised on the sale of approximately $1.1 billion of mortgages on behalf of
financial institutions in 2016. We also oversee a loan servicing portfolio, which totaled approximately $119 billion in the Americas (approximately $145 billion globally) atyear-end2016.



Our real estate services professionals are
compensated primarily through commissions, which are payable upon completion of an assignment. This mitigates the effect of compensation, our largest expense, on our operating margins during difficult market conditions. We strive to retain top
professionals through an attractive compensation program tied to productivity as well as greater investments in support resources, including professional development and training, market research and information, technology, branding and marketing,
than most other firms in our sector.



We further
strengthen our relationships with our real estate services clients by offering proprietary research to them through CBRE Research and CBRE Econometric Advisors, our commercial real estate market information and forecasting groups.



Valuation



We provide valuation services that include market value
appraisals, litigation support, discounted cash flow analyses, feasibility studies as well as consulting services such as property condition reports, hotel advisory and environmental consulting. Our valuation business has developed proprietary
systems for data management, analysis and valuation report preparation, which we believe provide us with an advantage over our competitors. We believe that our valuation business is one of the largest in the commercial real estate industry. During
2016, we completed over 69,000 valuation, appraisal and advisory assignments in the Americas.



Occupier Outsourcing



Through our Global Workplace Solutions business line, we provide a broad suite of services to occupiers of real estate, including facilities management, project management, transaction management and
strategic consulting. We report facilities and project management as well as strategic consulting activities in our occupier outsourcing revenue line and transaction management in our lease and sales revenue lines.



We believe the outsourcing of commercial real estate services
is a long-term trend in our industry, with occupiers, such as corporations, public sector entities, health care providers and others, achieving better execution and improved efficiency by relying on the expertise of third-party real estate
specialists.



We typically enter into multi-year,
often multi-service outsourcing contracts with our clients, and also provide services on aone-offassignment or a short-term contract basis. Facilities management involves theday-to-daymanagement of client-occupied space and includes headquarter buildings, regional offices, administrative offices, data centers and other critical facilities,
manufacturing and laboratory facilities, distribution facilities and retail space. Contracts for facilities management services are often structured so we are reimbursed for client-dedicated personnel costs and subcontracted vendor costs as well as
associated overhead expenses plus a monthly fee, and in some cases, annual incentives tied to agreed-upon performance targets, with any penalties typically capped. Project management services are typically provided on a portfolio-wide or
programmatic basis. Revenues for project management generally include fixed management fees, variable fees, and incentive fees if certain agreed-upon performance targets are met. Revenues for project management may also include reimbursement of
payroll and related costs for personnel providing the services.







Property Management



Through our Asset Services business line, we provide property management services on a contractual basis for
owners/investors in office, industrial and retail properties. These services include construction management, marketing, building engineering, accounting and financial services.



We typically receive monthly management fees for the property
management services we provide based upon a specified percentage of the monthly rental income or rental receipts generated from the property under management, or in certain cases, the greater of such percentage fee or a minimum agreed-upon fee. We
are also often reimbursed for our administrative and payroll costs, as well as certainout-of-pocketexpenses, directly attributable to the properties under management.
Our management agreements with our property management services clients may be terminated by either party with notice generally ranging between 30 to 90 days; however, we have developed long-term relationships with many of these clients and the
typical contract continues for multiple years. We believe our contractual relationships with these clients put us in an advantageous position to provide other services to them, including leasing, refinancing, disposition and appraisal.



Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)



Our Europe, Middle East and Africa, or
EMEA, reporting segment serves clients in approximately 60 countries. The largest operations are located in France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Our operations in these countries generally
provide a full range of services to the commercial property sector. Additionally, we provide some residential property services, focused on the prime and super-prime segments of the market, primarily in the United Kingdom. Within EMEA, our services
are organized along similar lines as in the Americas, including leasing, property sales, valuation services, asset management services and occupier outsourcing, among others. Our EMEA segment accounted for 30.0% of our 2016 revenue, 27.7% of our
2015 revenue and 25.9% of our 2014 revenue.



In
several countries in EMEA, we have contractual relationships with independent affiliates that provide commercial real estate services under our brand name. Our agreements with these independent affiliates include licenses by us to them to use the
“CBRE” name in the relevant territory in return for payments of annual or quarterly royalty fees to us. In addition, these agreements typically provide for the cross-referral of business between us and our affiliates.



Asia Pacific



Our Asia Pacific reporting segment serves clients in 16
countries. Our largest operations in Asia are located in Greater China, India, Japan, Singapore and Thailand. The Pacific region includes Australia and New Zealand. Our operations in these countries provide a full range of real estate services to
the commercial sector, similar to the services provided by our Americas and EMEA segments. We also provide services to the residential property sector predominantly in the Pacific region. In addition, we have contractual agreements with independent
affiliates that generate royalty fees and support cross-referral arrangements similar to our EMEA segment. Our Asia Pacific segment accounted for 11.4% of our 2016 revenue, 10.5% of our 2015 revenue and 10.7% of our 2014 revenue.



Global Investment Management



Operations in our Global Investment Management reporting
segment are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE Global Investors, LLC and its global affiliates, which we also refer to as CBRE Global Investors. CBRE Global Investors provides investment management services to pension funds,
insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, foundations, endowments and other institutional investors seeking to generate returns and diversification through investment in real estate. It sponsors investment programs that span the risk/return
spectrum in: North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. In some strategies, CBRE Global Investors and its investment teamsco-investwith its limited partners.







CBRE Global Investors’ offerings are organized into four primary categories:
(1) direct real estate investments through sponsored funds; (2) direct real estate investments through separate accounts; (3) indirect real estate and infrastructure investments through listed securities; and (4) indirect real
estate investments through multi-manager investment programs.



Assets under management, or AUM, totaled $86.6 billion at December 31, 2016 as compared to $89.0 billion at December 31, 2015. In local currency, AUM for 2016 was up $2.1 billion,
but down $2.4 billion when measured in U.S dollars. Our Global Investment Management segment accounted for 2.8% of our 2016 revenue, 4.2% of our 2015 revenue and 5.2% of our 2014 revenue.



Development Services



Operations in our Development Services reporting segment are
conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Trammell Crow Company, LLC, which we also refer to as Trammell Crow Company, and certain of its subsidiaries, providing development services primarily in the United States to users of and
investors in commercial real estate, as well as for its own account. Trammell Crow Company pursues opportunistic, risk-mitigated development and investment in commercial real estate across a wide spectrum of property types, including: industrial,
office and retail properties; healthcare facilities of all types (medical office buildings, hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers); andresidential/mixed-useprojects. Our Development Services segment
accounted for 0.5% of our 2016 revenue, 0.6% of our 2015 revenue and 0.7% of our 2014 revenue.



Trammell Crow Company pursues development and investment activity on behalf of its clients on a fee basis (with no ownership interest in a property), in partnership with its clients (throughco-investment– either on an individual project basis or through programs with certain strategic capital partners) or for its own account (100% ownership). Development activity in which Trammell Crow Company
has an ownership interest is conducted through subsidiaries that are consolidated or unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes, depending primarily on the extent and nature of our ownership interest.



At December 31, 2016, Trammell Crow Company had
$6.6 billion of development projects in process. Additionally, the inventory of pipeline deals (prospective projects we believe have a greater than 50% chance of closing or where land has been acquired and the projected construction start date
is more than twelve months out) was $4.2 billion at December 31, 2016.



Competition



We compete across a variety of business lines within the commercial real estate industry, including commercial property, corporate facilities, project and transaction management, tenant/occupier and
property/agency leasing, capital markets solutions (property sales, commercial mortgage origination, sales and servicing, and structured finance) real estate investment management, valuation, development services and proprietary research. Each
business line is highly competitive on an international, national, regional and local level. Although we are the largest commercial real estate services firm in the world in terms of 2016 revenue, our relative competitive position varies
significantly across geographic markets, property types and services. We face competition from other commercial real estate service providers that compete with us on a global, national, regional or local basis or within a market segment; outsourcing
companies that traditionally competed in limited portions of our facilities management business and have expanded their offerings from time to time;in-housecorporate real estate departments and property
owners/developers that self-perform real estate services; investment banking firms, investment managers and developers that compete with us to raise and place investment capital; and accounting/consulting firms that advise on real estate strategies.
Some of these firms may have greater financial resources than we do.



Despite recent consolidation, the commercial real estate services industry remains highly fragmented and competitive. Although many of our competitors are substantially smaller than we are, some of them
are larger on a regional or local basis or have a stronger position in a specific market segment or service offering. Among our







primary competitors are other large national and global firms, such as Cushman & Wakefield, JLL (formerly Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated), Colliers International Group Inc. , Savills
plc and BGC Partners (which is the publicly traded parent of Newmark Grubb Knight Frank); market-segment specialists, such as Eastdil Secured, HFF, L.P., Marcus & Millichap, Inc. and Walker & Dunlop, Inc.; and firms with business
lines that compete with our occupier outsourcing business.



Seasonality



A significant portion of our revenue is seasonal, which an investor should keep in mind when comparing our financial condition and results
of operations on aquarter-by-quarterbasis. Historically, our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities tend to be lowest in the
first quarter, and highest in the fourth quarter of each year. Revenue, earnings and cash flow have generally been concentrated in the fourth calendar quarter due to the focus on completing sales, financing and leasing transactions prior toyear-end.



Employees



At December 31, 2016, excluding our
independent affiliates, we had more than 75,000 employees worldwide, approximately 37% of whose costs are fully reimbursed by clients and are mostly in our Global Workplace Solutions and Asset Services lines of business. At December 31, 2016,
approximately 1,800 of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements, most of whom work in properties we manage in California, Illinois, New Jersey and New York.



Intellectual Property



We hold various trademarks and trade names worldwide, which
include the “CBRE” name. Although we believe our intellectual property plays a role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve, we do not believe we would be materially, adversely affected by
expiration or termination of our trademarks or trade names or the loss of any of our other intellectual property rights other than the “CBRE” and “Trammell Crow Company” names. We maintain trademark registrations for the CBRE
service mark in jurisdictions where we conduct significant business.



We hold a license to use the “Trammell Crow Company” trade name pursuant to a license agreement with CF98, L.P., an affiliate of Crow Realty Investors, L.P., d/b/a Crow Holdings, which may be
revoked if we fail to satisfy usage and quality control covenants under the license agreement.



In addition to trademarks and trade names, we have acquired and developed proprietary technologies for the provision of complex services and analysis. We also offer proprietary research to clients through
CBRE Economic Advisors and we offer proprietary investment analysis and structures through CBRE Global Investors. While we have not generally registered these items of intellectual property in any jurisdiction, we may seek to secure our rights under
applicable intellectual property protection laws in these and any other proprietary assets that we use in our business.



Environmental Matters



Federal, state and local laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business impose environmental liabilities, controls,
disclosure rules and zoning restrictions that affect the ownership, management, development, use or sale of commercial real estate. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose liability on current or previous real property owners or operators
for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at a property, including contamination resulting from above-ground or underground storage tanks or the presence of asbestos or lead at a
property. If contamination occurs or is present during our role as a property or facility manager or developer, we could be held liable for such costs as a current “operator” of a property, regardless of the legality of the acts or
omissions that caused the contamination and







without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The operator of a site also may be liable under common law to third parties for
damages and injuries resulting from exposure to hazardous substances or environmental contamination at a site, including liabilities arising from exposure to asbestos-containing materials. Under certain laws and common law principles, any failure by
us to disclose environmental contamination at a property could subject us to liability to a buyer or lessee of the property. Further, federal, state and local governments in the countries in which we do business have enacted various laws,
regulations and treaties governing environmental and climate change, particularly for “greenhouse gases,” which seek to tax, penalize or limit their release. Such regulations could lead to increased operational or compliance costs over
time.



While we are aware of the presence or the
potential presence of regulated substances in the soil or groundwater at or near several properties owned, operated or managed by us that may have resulted from historical or ongoing activities on those properties, we are not aware of any material
noncompliance with the environmental laws or regulations currently applicable to us, and we are not the subject of any material claim for liability with respect to contamination at any location. However, these laws and regulations may discourage
sales and leasing activities and mortgage lending with respect to some properties, which may adversely affect both the commercial real estate services industry in general and us. Environmental contamination or other environmental liabilities may
also negatively affect the value of commercial real estate assets held by entities that are managed by our investment management and development services businesses, which could adversely affect the results of operations of these business lines.



Available Information



Our internet address is www.cbre.com. We use our website as
a channel of distribution for company information, and financial and other material information regarding us is routinely posted and accessible on our website.



On the Investor Relations page of our website, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC: our Annual Report on Form10-K,our Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, our Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q,our Current Reports on Form8-Kand any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, or the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including reports filed by our officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act.



All of the information on our Investor Relations
web page is available to be viewed free of charge. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form10-Kor our other filings with the SEC. We assume no obligation to update or
revise any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form10-K,whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law.



A copy of this Annual Report on Form10-Kis available without charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, CBRE Group, Inc., 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy
and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.



