Item 1A—Risk Factors

, and

Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Forward-looking statements are predictions based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding future events. They are not guarantees or assurances of any outcomes, financial results or levels of activity, performance or achievements, and you are cautioned not to place undue reliance upon them. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of estimates and assumptions, and known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. Our actual results may vary materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements included herein as a result of the factors discussed underItem 1A—Risk Factors, and the following important factors:

•the decisions of governmental and regulatory bodies, including decisions to raise or lower customer rates;

•the timeliness and outcome of regulatory commissions’ actions concerning rates, capital structure, authorized return on equity, capital investment, system acquisitions, taxes, permitting and other decisions;

•changes in customer demand for, and patterns of use of, water, such as may result from conservation efforts;

•limitations on the availability of our water supplies or sources of water, or restrictions on our use thereof, resulting from allocation rights, governmental or regulatory requirements and restrictions, drought, overuse or other factors;

•changes in laws, governmental regulations and policies, including with respect to environmental, health and safety, water quality and emerging contaminants, public utility and tax regulations and policies, and impacts resulting from U.S., state and local elections;

•weather conditions and events, climate variability patterns, and natural disasters, including drought or abnormally high rainfall, prolonged and abnormal ice or freezing conditions, strong winds, coastal and intercoastal flooding, earthquakes, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, electrical storms and solar flares;

•the outcome of litigation and similar governmental and regulatory proceedings, investigations or actions;

•our ability to appropriately maintain current infrastructure, including our operational and technology systems, and manage the expansion of our business;

•exposure or infiltration of our critical infrastructure and our technology systems, including the disclosure of sensitive, personal or confidential information contained therein, through physical or cyber attacks or other means;

•our ability to obtain permits and other approvals for projects;

•changes in our capital requirements;

•our ability to control operating expenses and to achieve efficiencies in our operations;

•the intentional or unintentional actions of a third party, including contamination of our water supplies or water provided to our customers;

•our ability to obtain adequate and cost-effective supplies of chemicals, electricity, fuel, water and other raw materials that are needed for our operations;

•our ability to successfully meet growth projections for our regulated and market-based businesses, either individually or in the aggregate, and capitalize on growth opportunities, including our ability to, among other things:

•acquire, close and successfully integrate regulated operations and market-based businesses;









•enter into contracts and other agreements with, or otherwise obtain, new customers in our market-based businesses; and

•realize anticipated benefits and synergies from new acquisitions;

•risks and uncertainties associated with contracting with the U.S. government, including ongoing compliance with applicable government procurement and security regulations;

•cost overruns relating to improvements in or the expansion of our operations;

•our ability to maintain safe work sites;

•our exposure to liabilities related to environmental laws and similar matters resulting from, among other things, water and wastewater service provided to customers, including, for example, our water transfer business focused on customers in the shale natural gas exploration and production market;

•changes in general economic, political, business and financial market conditions;

•access to sufficient capital on satisfactory terms and when and as needed to support operations and capital expenditures;

•fluctuations in interest rates;

•restrictive covenants in or changes to the credit ratings on us or our current or future debt that could increase our financing costs or funding requirements or affect our ability to borrow, make payments on debt or pay dividends;

•fluctuations in the value of benefit plan assets and liabilities that could increase our cost and funding requirements;

•changes in federal or state general, income and other tax laws, including any further rules, regulations, interpretations and guidance by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and state or local taxing authorities (collectively, the “Related Interpretations”) related to the enactment of the TCJA, the availability of tax credits and tax abatement programs, and our ability to utilize our U.S. federal and state income tax net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards;

•migration of customers into or out of our service territories;

•the use by municipalities of the power of eminent domain or other authority to condemn our systems, or the assertion by private landowners of similar rights against us;

•our difficulty or inability to obtain insurance, our inability to obtain insurance at acceptable rates and on acceptable terms and conditions, or our inability to obtain reimbursement under existing insurance programs for any losses sustained;

•the incurrence of impairment charges related to our goodwill or other assets;

•labor actions, including work stoppages and strikes;

•our ability to retain and attract qualified employees;

•civil disturbances or terrorist threats or acts, or public apprehension about future disturbances or terrorist threats or acts; and

•the impact of new, and changes to existing, accounting standards.

These forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read together with, the risks and uncertainties set forth above and the risk factors included inItem 1A—Risk Factorsand other statements contained in this Form 10-K, and you should refer to such risks, uncertainties and risk factors in evaluating such forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statements we make speak only as of the date this Form 10-K was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as required by the federal securities laws, we do not have any obligation, and we specifically disclaim any undertaking or intention, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all such factors. Furthermore, it may not be possible to assess the impact of any such factor on our businesses, either viewed independently or together, or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. The foregoing factors should not be construed as exhaustive.











PART I



ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Company

With a history dating back to1886, American Water is the largest and most geographically diverse, publicly-traded water and wastewater utility company in the United States, as measured by both operating revenues and population served. A holding company originally incorporated in Delaware in1936, we employ approximately7,100professionals who provide drinking water, wastewater and other related services to more than14 millionpeople in46states and Ontario, Canada. We conduct the majority of our business through regulated utilities that provide water and wastewater services, collectively presented as our “Regulated Businesses.” We also operate market-based businesses that provide a broad range of related and complementary water, wastewater and other services. Individually, these businesses do not meet the criteria of a reportable segment in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), and are collectively presented as ourMarket-Based Businesses, which is consistent with how management assesses the results of these businesses.

Throughout this Form 10-K, unless the context otherwise requires, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company,” and “American Water” mean American Water Works Company, Inc. and its subsidiaries, taken together as a whole. References to “parent company” mean American Water Works Company, Inc., without its subsidiaries.



Regulated Businesses

Our primary business involves the ownership of utilities that provide water and wastewater services to residential, commercial, industrial, public authority, fire service and sale for resale customers. Our utilities operate in approximately1,600communities in16states in the United States, with approximately3.4 millionactive customers to our water and wastewater networks. Services provided by our utilities are generally subject to economic regulation by certain state utility commissions or other entities engaged in utility regulation, collectively referred to as Public Utility Commissions (“PUCs” or “Regulators”). Certain federal, state and local governments also regulate environmental, health and safety, and water quality matters. We report the results of the services provided by our utilities in ourRegulated Businessessegment. Operating revenues for ourRegulated Businesseswere$2,984 millionfor2018,$2,958 millionfor2017and$2,871 millionfor2016, accounting for87%,88%and87%, respectively, of the Company’s total operating revenues for the same periods.

The following table provides a geographic summary of ourRegulated Businesses’ operating revenues and the number of customers we serve, by type of service, for and as of the year endedDecember 31, 2018:

Operating Revenues (in millions)Number of Customers (in thousands)Water (a)WastewaterTotal% of TotalWaterWastewaterTotal% of TotalNew Jersey$682$41$72324.2%6484969720.6%Pennsylvania6276268923.1%6606572521.4%Missouri3091031910.7%4691448314.3%Illinois2772029710.0%286353219.5%California21832217.4%17631795.3%Indiana219—2197.3%30523079.1%West Virginia14311444.8%16611674.9%Total—Top Seven States(b)2,4751372,61287.5%2,7101692,87985.1%Other states(c)3482437212.5%4723150314.9%Total Regulated Businesses$2,823$161$2,984100.0%3,1822003,382100.0%

(a)Includes other operating revenues consisting primarily of miscellaneous utility charges, fees and rents.

(b)Our “Top Seven States” are determined based upon operating revenues.

(c)Includes our utilities in the following states: Georgia, Hawaii, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New York, Tennessee and Virginia.

SeeItem 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsandNote 20—Segment Informationin the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.









Customers

OurRegulated Businesseshave a large and geographically diverse customer base. A customer is defined as a person, business, municipality or any other entity that purchases our water or wastewater services as of the last business day of a reporting period. One single customer may purchase our services for use by multiple individuals or businesses, as is the case in many homes, apartment complexes, businesses and governmental entities.

The vast majority of our regulated water customers are metered, which allows us to measure and bill for our customers’ water usage, typically on a monthly basis. We employ a variety of methods of customer meter reading to monitor consumption. These methods range from meters with mechanical registers where consumption is manually recorded by meter readers, to meters with electronic registers capable of transmitting consumption data to proximity devices or via radio frequency to mobile or fixed network data collectors. Our wastewater customers are billed either a flat rate or based upon their water consumption.

Residential customers make up a substantial portion of our customer base in all of the states in which we operate. We also serve (i) commercial customers, such as food and beverage providers, commercial property developers and proprietors, and energy suppliers, (ii) fire service customers, where we supply water through our distribution systems to public fire hydrants for firefighting purposes and to private fire customers for use in fire suppression systems in office buildings and other facilities, (iii) industrial customers, such as large-scale manufacturers, mining and production operations, (iv) public authorities, such as government buildings and other public sector facilities, including schools and universities, and (v) other utilities and community water and wastewater systems in the form of bulk contracts for the supply of water or the treatment of wastewater, for their own customers.

The following chart depicts the allocation of ourRegulated Businesses’ operating revenue by type, including a breakout of the total water services revenues by class of customer, for the year endedDecember 31, 2018:



(a)Includes water revenues from public authorities and other utilities and community water systems under bulk contracts.

(b)Includes other operating revenues consisting primarily of miscellaneous utility charges, fees and rents.









The following table provides the number of water and wastewater customers we served by class as of December 31:

201820172016(In thousands)WaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterResidential2,8921882,8721822,846171Commercial222112211122010Fire service48—47—45—Industrial4—4—4—Public and other(a)16116—16—Total3,1822003,1601933,131181

(a)Includes public authorities and other utilities and community water and wastewater systems under bulk contracts. Bulk contracts, which are accounted for as a single customer in the table above, generally result in service to multiple customers.

Customer growth in ourRegulated Businessesis primarily from (i) adding new customers to our customer base through acquisitions of water and/or wastewater utility systems, (ii) organic population growth in our authorized service areas, and (iii) sale of water to other water utilities and community water systems.

Capital Investment

The aging water and wastewater infrastructure in the United States is in need of replacement and modernization. The American Society of Civil Engineers published its

Report Card for America’s Infrastructure

in 2017 and gave the drinking water industry a grade of “D,” and the wastewater infrastructure a grade of “D+,” primarily because much of the country’s infrastructure is nearing the end of its useful life. The report also stated that, on an annual basis, approximately

2 trillion

gallons of treated water are lost in the United States through more than

240,000

main breaks, at an estimated cost of

$2.6 billion

. This represents approximately

20%

of all treated water in the country. In addition, approximately

900 billion

gallons of untreated sewage is discharged into the country’s rivers and streams every year. As documented in the American Water Works Association’s

Buried No Longer: Confronting America’s Water Infrastructure Challenge

, restoring the country’s existing water systems as they reach the end of their useful lives, and expanding them to serve a growing population, will cost at least $1 trillion between 2011 and 2035, just to maintain the current levels of water service. In addition, increased regulation related to water quality and the management of water and wastewater residual discharges, which began with the passage of the Clean Water Act in 1972 and the Safe Drinking Water Act in 1974, is also a primary driver for the need to modernize the country’s water and wastewater infrastructure.

To address the growing infrastructure needs in the areas we serve, we plan to invest$7.3 billionover the next five years, including$1.6 billionin 2019, for capital improvements to our Regulated Businesses’ water and wastewater infrastructure, largely for pipe replacement and upgrading aging water and wastewater treatment facilities. We have proactively improved our pipe renewal rate from a 250-year replacement cycle to a 120-year replacement cycle, which we anticipate will enable us to replace nearly 2,000 miles of mains and collection pipes between 2019 and 2023. In addition, during this same five-year period, our capital investment in treatment plants, storage tanks and other key, above-ground facilities has increased over 10%, further addressing infrastructure renewal, resiliency, water quality, operational efficiency, technology and innovation, and emerging regulatory compliance needs. Additionally, we are investing significantly in resiliency projects to address the impacts of climate and weather variability by hardening our assets.

Economic Regulation and Rate Making

OurRegulated Businessesoperate under a regulatory compact whereby, in exchange for exclusive rights to provide water and wastewater services in defined service territories, we have an obligation to serve customers within those territories requesting service, within reasonable limits. In return for agreeing to invest capital into our water and wastewater systems, we are given the opportunity to recover our costs of doing business and earn a reasonable rate of return on our investments.

The operations of ourRegulated Businessesare generally subject to economic regulation by PUCs in the state in which they operate, with the primary responsibility of the PUCs to promote the overall public interest by balancing the interest of customers and utility investors. Specific authority might differ from state to state, but in most states, PUCs review and approve rates charged to customers, accounting treatments, long-term financing programs and cost of capital, O&M expenses, capital expenditures, taxes, affiliated transactions and relationships, reorganizations and mergers and acquisitions, along with imposing certain penalties or granting certain incentives. Regulatory policies vary from state to state and could potentially change over time. These policies will affect the timing, as well as the extent, of recovery of expenses and the realized return on invested capital.









The process to obtain approval for a change in rates generally occurs by way of a rate case filed by the utility with the PUC on a periodic basis. The timing of rate case filings is typically determined by either periodic requirements in the regulatory jurisdiction or by the utility’s need to increase its revenue requirement to recover capital investment costs, changes in operating revenues, operating costs or other market conditions. Our rate case management program is guided by the principles of (i) obtaining timely recovery of capital investment costs, (ii) recognizing declining sales resulting from reduced consumption, and (iii) obtaining appropriate recovery of utility O&M costs, including costs incurred for compliance with environmental regulations. The program attempts to minimize “regulatory lag,” which is the time between the occurrence of an event that triggers a change in the utility’s revenue requirement and its recognition in rates. For example, regulatory lag describes the time between when a capital investment is placed into service for the benefit of the customer and when the Company can begin earning a return of and on that capital investment, through the ratemaking process. It also applies to the lag in the recognition in rate recovery of changes in expenses and revenues.

OurRegulated Businessessupport regulatory practices at the PUCs and state legislatures that mitigate the adverse impact of regulatory lag. The following table provides examples of approved regulatory practices:





Regulatory PracticesDescriptionStates Allowed

Infrastructure replacement surchargesAllows rates to change periodically, outside a general rate case proceeding, to reflect recovery of capital investments made to replace infrastructure necessary to sustain safe, reliable services for our customers. These mechanisms typically involve periodic filings and reviews to ensure transparency.IA, IL, IN, MO, NJ, NY, PA, TN, VA, WV

Future test yearA test period used for setting rates, which begins with the date new rates are effective. This allows current or projected revenues, expenses and capital investments to be collected on a timelier basis.CA, HI, IA, IL, IN, KY, NY, PA, TN, VA

Hybrid test yearAllows an update to historical data for “known and measurable” changes that occur subsequent to the historical test year.MD, MO, NJ, WV

Utility plant recovery mechanismsAllows recovery of the full return on utility plant costs during the construction period, instead of capitalizing an allowance for funds used during construction. In addition, some states allow the utility to seek pre-approval of certain capital projects and associated costs. In this pre-approval process, the PUC may assess the prudency of such projects.CA, IL, KY, NY, PA, TN, VA

Expense mechanismsAllows changes in certain operating expenses, which may fluctuate based on conditions beyond the utility’s control, to be recovered outside of a general rate case proceeding or deferred until the next general rate case proceeding.CA, IL, MD, MO, NJ, NY, PA, TN, VA

Revenue stability mechanismsSeparates a utility’s cost recovery from the amount of water it sells to recover its fixed costs and ongoing infrastructure investment needs. Such a mechanism adjusts rates periodically to ensure that a utility’s revenue will be sufficient to cover its costs, regardless of sales volume, including recognition of declining sales resulting from reduced consumption, while providing an incentive for customers to use water more efficiently.CA, IL, NY

Consolidated tariffsUse of a unified rate structure for water systems owned and operated by a single utility, which may or may not be physically interconnected. The consolidated tariff pricing structure may be used fully or partially in a state, and is generally used to prioritize capital investments and moderate the impact of periodic fluctuations in local costs, while lowering administrative costs for customers. Pennsylvania also permits a blending of water and wastewater revenue requirements.CA, IA, IL, IN, KY, MD, MO, NJ, NY, PA, VA, WV

We pursue or seek enhancement to these regulatory practices to facilitate efficient recovery of our costs and capital investments in order to continue to provide safe, clean, reliable and affordable services to our customers. The ability to seek regulatory treatment as described above does not guarantee that the PUCs will accept our proposal in the context of a particular rate case, and these regulatory practices may reduce, but not eliminate, regulatory lag associated with traditional rate making processes. It is also our strategy to expand their use in areas where they may not currently apply.

Acquisitions and Strategic Growth

The U.S. water and wastewater industries include investor-owned systems as well as municipal systems that are owned and operated by local governments or governmental subdivisions. Both industries are highly fragmented. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), approximately

84%

of the water market is served by municipal systems and approximately

98%

of the country’s wastewater systems are government owned. The EPA also estimates that there are approximately

50,000

community water systems and approximately

15,000

community wastewater systems in the United States, with approximately 80% of the community water systems serving a population of

3,000

or less. This large number of relatively small, fragmented water and wastewater systems may result in inefficiencies in the marketplace, since such utilities may not have the operating expertise, financial and technological capability or economies of scale to provide services or raise capital as efficiently as larger utilities. Larger utilities that have greater access to capital are generally more capable of making mandated and other necessary infrastructure upgrades to their water and wastewater systems. In addition, water and wastewater utilities with large customer bases, spread across broad geographic regions, may more easily absorb the impact of significant variations in precipitation and temperatures, such as droughts, excessive rain and cool or warm temperatures in specific areas. Larger utilities generally are able to spread support services over a larger customer base, thereby reducing the costs to serve each customer. Since many administrative and support activities can be efficiently centralized to gain economies of scale, companies that participate in industry consolidation have the potential to improve operating efficiencies, lower costs per unit and improve service at the same time. Larger utilities also typically have the expertise to operate systems more efficiently and can attract and retain employees needed to operate the utility over time.









A fundamental aspect of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions of small and medium water and/or wastewater systems of between 3,000 and 30,000 customers, in geographic proximity to areas where we operate ourRegulated Businesses. The proximity of acquisition opportunities to our regulated footprint allows us to integrate and manage the acquired systems and operations primarily using our existing management, although we typically retain the majority of employees, and to achieve operational efficiencies and prioritize capital investment needs. Our current customer mix of94%water and6%wastewater also presents strategic opportunities for wastewater growth and systems consolidation, allowing us to add wastewater customers where we already serve water customers. We intend to continue to expand our regulated footprint geographically by acquiring water and wastewater systems in our existing markets and, if appropriate, pursuing acquisition opportunities in certain domestic markets where we do not currently operate ourRegulated Businesses. Before entering new regulated markets, we will evaluate the business and regulatory climates to ensure that we will have the opportunity to achieve an appropriate rate of return on our investment while maintaining our high standards for providing safe, reliable and affordable services to our customers, as well as a line of sight to grow our base customers to attain efficiencies after entering the new domestic market.

Increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety, and water quality regulations, the amount of infrastructure in need of significant capital investment, financial challenges and industry legislation are several elements that may drive more municipalities to consider selling their water and wastewater assets.

We are an experienced utility with proven access to capital and financial, technical, and managerial resources with public service commission oversight. We are a solution provider and believe that many communities could benefit from receiving safe and reliable water and wastewater service.

Industry Legislation

In 2017, New Jersey enacted the Water Quality Accountability Act (the “WQAA”), which sets new operational standards for all water utilities in New Jersey, including municipal and investor-owned utilities with more than 500 service connections. This law imposes new requirements in areas such as cybersecurity, asset management, water quality reporting, remediation of notices of violation, and hydrant and valve maintenance. The WQAA requires the most senior water manager, or either the executive director for municipal utility authorities or the mayor or chief executive officer for municipally owned public water systems, to certify that the system meets the requirements under the WQAA. On October 19, 2018, our New Jersey American Water subsidiary certified that it was in compliance with all aspects of the Act.

In 2018, similar legislation was passed in Indiana, which sets new operational standards and requirements for water and wastewater treatment plants in areas such as capital asset management, cost-benefit analysis and cybersecurity.

Also, in 2018, President Trump signed America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018. The legislation includes policies intended to improve water and wastewater system management and authorization for states to assess options for consolidation for systems that do not comply with the federal Safe Drinking Water Act and its rules and regulations. The legislation increases funding to water system funding programs, including the State Revolving Loan Fund program and the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act.

Our regulated subsidiaries in California, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Maryland, Missouri, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have access to fair market value legislation for private sector investment in public sector systems. We support full optionality for municipalities, including state legislation that enables the consolidation of the largely fragmented water and wastewater industries through third-party fair market valuations of purchased property. Fair market value assessment of water and wastewater systems is an alternative to the traditional depreciated original cost method of valuation, providing municipalities with a purchase price that is reflective of the assets’ value, while the utility has increased assurance of recovering the purchase price over the life of the assets, subject to state regulatory commission approval.

Consolidated tariffs use a unified rate structure for systems owned and operated by a single utility, which may or may not be physically interconnected. Consolidated tariff pricing moderates the impact of periodic fluctuations in local costs and promotes a more universal water infrastructure investment in the state. As a result, consolidated tariffs can make it easier to incorporate new systems into an existing utility and can ensure economies of scale for even the smallest of systems and prioritize capital needs across the state. Overall, this brings cost-effective, higher quality services to a larger number of citizens. Eleven of our regulated subsidiaries currently have some form of consolidated tariff pricing, including Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia.









In 2018, legislation was passed in our Missouri and California subsidiaries changing the public vote requirement for the sale of water or wastewater systems. In Missouri, the public vote requirement for the sale of a municipal water or wastewater system changed to a simple majority for more than 500 small towns. Historically, only larger communities required a simple majority, while smaller communities needed a two-thirds majority. This legislation increases the options for small towns, should they decide to address their water and sewer challenges through an asset sale. In California, the vote required to allow cities to sell sewer systems changed to a simple majority as compared to a two-thirds majority.

Competition

In ourRegulated Businesses, we generally do not face direct competition in our existing markets because (i) we operate in those markets pursuant to franchises, charters, certificates of public convenience and necessity or similar authorizations (collectively, “CPCNs”) issued by state PUCs, and (ii) the high cost of constructing a new water and wastewater system in an existing market creates a high barrier to market entry. However, ourRegulated Businessesdo face competition from governmental agencies, other investor-owned utilities, large industrial customers with the ability to provide their own water supply/treatment process and strategic buyers that are entering new markets and/or making strategic acquisitions. When pursuing acquisitions, our largest investor-owned competitors, based on a comparison of operating revenues and population served, are Aqua America, Inc., Suez North America, American States Water Company and California Water Service Group. From time to time, we also face competition from infrastructure funds, multi-utility companies and others, such as Algonquin Power and Utilities Corp., Eversource Energy and Corix.

Condemnation and Eminent Domain

All or portions of ourRegulated Businesses’ utility assets could be acquired by state, municipal or other government entities through one or more of the following methods: (i) eminent domain (also known as condemnation); (ii) the right of purchase given or reserved by a municipality or political subdivision when the original CPCN was granted; and (iii) the right of purchase given or reserved under the law of the state in which the utility subsidiary was incorporated or from which it received its CPCN. The acquisition consideration related to such a proceeding initiated by a local government may be determined consistent with applicable eminent domain law, or may be negotiated or fixed by appraisers as prescribed by the law of the state or in the particular CPCN.

As such, we are periodically subject to condemnation proceedings in the ordinary course of business. For example, a citizens group in Monterey, California successfully added “Measure J” to the November 6, 2018 election ballot asking voters to decide whether the Monterey Peninsula Water Management District (the “MPWMD”) should conduct a feasibility study concerning the potential purchase of our California subsidiary’s Monterey water service assets, and, if feasible, to proceed with a purchase of those assets without an additional public vote. This service territory represents approximately 40,000 customers. On November 27, 2018, Measure J was certified to have passed. The MPWMD has until August 27, 2019 to complete a feasibility study and submit to its board a written plan for acquiring the system assets. If the MPWMD were to determine that such an acquisition is feasible, then the MPWMD would commence a multi-year eminent domain proceeding against our California subsidiary to first establish the MPWMD’s right to take the system assets and, if such right is established, determine the amount of just compensation to be paid for the system assets.

Also, five municipalities in the Chicago, Illinois area (approximately 30,300 customers in total) formed a water agency and filed an eminent domain lawsuit against our Illinois subsidiary in January 2013, seeking to condemn the water pipeline that serves those five municipalities. Before filing its eminent domain lawsuit, the water agency made an offer of $38 million for the pipeline. A jury trial will take place to establish the value of the pipeline. Although the date of this trial has not currently been scheduled, it is likely to commence in the fourth quarter of 2019.

Furthermore, the law in certain jurisdictions in which ourRegulated Businessesoperate provides for eminent domain rights allowing private property owners to file a lawsuit to seek just compensation against a public utility, if a public utility’s infrastructure has been determined to be a substantial cause of damage to that property. In these actions, the plaintiff would not have to prove that the public utility acted negligently. In California, most recently, lawsuits have been filed in connection with large-scale natural events such as wildfires. Some have included allegations that infrastructure of certain utilities triggered the natural event that resulted in damage to the property. In some cases, the PUC has allowed certain costs or losses incurred by the utility to be recovered from customers in rates, but in other cases such recovery in rates has been disallowed. Also, the utility may have obtained insurance that could respond to some or all of such losses, although the utility would be at risk for any losses not ultimately subject to rate or insurance recovery or losses that exceed the limits of such insurance.









Water Supply and Wastewater Services

OurRegulated Businessesgenerally own the physical assets used to store, pump, treat and deliver water to our customers and collect, treat, transport and recycle wastewater. Typically, we do not own the water itself, which is held in public trust and is allocated to us through contracts, permits and allocation rights granted by federal and state or multi-state agencies or through the ownership of water rights pursuant to local law. We are dependent on defined sources of water supply and obtain our water supply from surface water sources such as reservoirs, lakes, rivers and streams; from groundwater sources, such as wells and aquifers; and water purchased from third-party water suppliers. The level of water treatment we apply varies significantly depending upon the quality of the water source and customer stipulations. Surface water sources typically generally require significant treatment, while groundwater sources often require chemical treatment only.

The following chart depicts our sources of water supply as ofDecember 31, 2018:



The following table provides percentages of water supply by source type for our top seven states for2018were as follows:

Surface WaterGround WaterPurchased WaterNew Jersey71%24%5%Pennsylvania91%7%2%Missouri79%20%1%Illinois53%36%11%California—64%36%Indiana44%56%—West Virginia99%—1%

Our ability to meet the existing and future water demands of our customers depends on an adequate water supply. Drought, governmental restrictions, overuse of sources of water, the protection of threatened species or habitats, contamination or other factors may limit the availability of ground and surface water. We employ a variety of measures in an effort to obtain adequate sources of water supply, both in the short-term and over the long-term. The geographic diversity of our service areas may mitigate some of the economic effects on the water supply associated with weather extremes we might encounter in any particular service territory. For example, in any given summer, some areas may experience drier than average weather, which may reduce the amount of source water available, while other areas we serve may experience wetter than average weather.









Item 3—Legal Proceedings

—Alternative Water Supply in Lieu of Carmel River Diversions.

Wastewater services involve the collection of wastewater from customers’ premises through sewer lines. The wastewater is then transported through a sewer network to a treatment facility, where it is treated to meet required regulatory standards for wastewater before being returned to the environment. The solid waste by-product of the treatment process is disposed of or recycled in accordance with applicable standards and regulations.

Seasonality

Customer demand for our water service is affected by weather and tends to vary with temperature, rainfall levels and the frequency of rainfall. Customer demand is generally greater during the warmer months, primarily due to increased water usage for irrigation systems and other outdoor water use. As such, we typically expect our operating revenues to be the highest in the third quarter of each year. Weather that is hotter and drier than average generally increases operating revenues, whereas, weather that is cooler and/or wetter than average generally serves to suppress customer water demand and can reduce water operating revenues. Three of our jurisdictions, California, Illinois and New York, have adopted revenue stability mechanisms which permit us to collect state PUC-authorized revenue for a given period which is not tied to the volume of water sold during that period, thereby lessening the impact of weather variability. See “Economic Regulation and Rate Making” for additional information regarding revenue stability mechanisms.



Market-Based Businesses

Through ourMarket-Based Businesses, we provide a broad range of related and complementary water and wastewater services primarily to residential and smaller commercial customers, the U.S. government on military installations and shale natural gas exploration and production companies, as well as municipalities, utilities and industrial customers. These businesses are not subject to economic regulation by state PUCs and the services provided generally do not require significant capital investment. Operating revenues for ourMarket-Based Businesseswere$476 millionfor2018,$422 millionfor2017and$451 millionfor2016, accounting for14%,13%and14%, respectively, of the Company’s total operating revenues for the same periods.

Our primaryMarket-Based Businessesinclude the following operating segments:

•Homeowner Services Group, which provides various warranty protection programs to residential and smaller commercial customers;

•Military Services Group, which enters into long-term contracts with the U.S. government to provide water and wastewater services on various military installations; and

•Keystone Clearwater Solutions, LLC (“Keystone”), which provides customized water transfer services for shale natural gas exploration and production companies.

We also enter into contracts with municipal, commercial and industrial customers to operate and manage water and wastewater facilities and provide other related services through ourContract Services Group. During 2018, we closed on the sale of the majority of ourContract Services Group’s O&M contracts to subsidiaries of Veolia Environnement S.A. SeeNote 4—Acquisitions and Divestituresin the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We will retain four of ourContract Services Group’s O&M contracts due to their proximity to our existing service areas, and expect the majority of the remaining contracts to be sold to other parties, or expire within the next twelve months.









Homeowner Services Group

OurHomeowner Services Group, which includes ourJune 4, 2018acquisition of Pivotal Home Solutions (“Pivotal”), provides warranty protection programs to residential and smaller commercial customers to protect against repair costs for interior and exterior water and sewer lines, interior gas and electric lines, heating and cooling systems, water heaters and other home appliances, as well as power surge protection and other related services. We also develop partnerships with municipalities, utilities and other organizations to offer our protection programs to customers serviced by, or affiliated with, those municipalities, utilities and organizations. The term of these partnership agreements is typically three to five years, with mutual optional renewals. As ofDecember 31, 2018, ourHomeowner Services Grouphad approximately3 millioncustomer contracts in43states, and26partnership agreements with utilities, municipalities and other organizations.

Military Services Group

OurMilitary Services Groupoperates on14military installations under 50-year contracts with the U.S. government as part of its Utility Privatization Program. The scope of these contracts generally includes the operation and maintenance of the installation’s water and wastewater systems and a capital program focused on asset replacement and, in certain instances, systems expansion. The replacement of assets assumed when a contract is awarded to the Company is funded from the contract fee. At times, new assets are required to support the installation’s mission and the construction of these assets are funded by the U.S. government as separate modifications or amendments to the contract. The capital program historically has not used the Company’s equity or debt borrowings; rather, we have used limited working capital for short-term needs under these contracts. In April 2018, the U.S. Army instituted a requirement that a bidder must offer financing in its proposal for a new capital project. The Company is currently exploring strategies to address the U.S. Army’s revised requirements for new projects on which it may seek to bid, including partnering with third parties for off-balance sheet financing.

The contract price fornineof our contracts with the U.S. government is subject to redetermination two years after commencement of operations, and every three years thereafter. Price redetermination is a contract mechanism to periodically adjust the service fee in the next period, to reflect changes in contract obligations and anticipated market conditions. The remainingfivecontracts with the U.S. government are subject to annual price adjustments under a mechanism similar to price redetermination called “Economic Price Adjustment.” All of these contracts may be terminated, in whole or in part, prior to the end of the 50-year term for convenience of the U.S. government, or as a result of default or non-performance by the subsidiary performing the contract. In either event, pursuant to termination provisions applicable to these contracts, we would be entitled to recover allowable costs that we may have incurred under the contract, plus the contract profit margin on incurred costs. Our backlog of revenue associated with our contracts with the U.S. government is approximately$4.3 billion, with an average remaining contract term of42years.

Keystone

In July 2015, we acquired a95%interest in Water Solutions Holdings, LLC, including its wholly owned subsidiary, Keystone. During 2018, pursuant to the exercise of put options by the minority owners, we acquired the remaining5%interest in Keystone, bringing our ownership interest to100%. Keystone is a water service and management solutions company that serves shale natural gas exploration and production customers in the Appalachian Basin. During 2018, Keystone exited its construction and water trucking business lines, narrowing the scope of its business going forward to customized water transfer services. Keystone operates under master service agreements that are generally shorter term in nature. When the initial term of these agreements expire, they typically renew automatically on an annual basis, and are generally cancelable by either party with 30 days prior notice. As ofDecember 31, 2018, Keystone serves approximately47customers.

Competition

We face competition in ourMarket-Based Businessesfrom a number of service providers, including HomeServe USA in ourHomeowner Services Group, and American States Water Company, Suez North America, and Veolia Environnement S.A. in ourMilitary Services Group. Keystone currently faces competition from water service providers that typically provide services to particular segments of the water management cycle, such as Select Energy Services, Inc., TETRA Technologies, Inc. and Baker Corp.











Environmental, Health and Safety, and Water Quality Regulation

Our water and wastewater operations, including the services provided by both ourRegulated BusinessesandMarket-Based Businesses, are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, and in the case of our Canadian operations, Canadian laws and regulations, governing the protection of the environment, health and safety, the provision of water and wastewater services, particularly with respect to the quality of water we deliver to our customers, and the manner in which we collect, treat, discharge, recycle and dispose of wastewater. In the United States, these regulations are developed under legislation including the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Reduction of Lead in Drinking Water Act and the Clean Water Act. States also have the authority to develop their standards and requirements in these areas. We are subject to various federal, state, local and Canadian laws and regulations governing the storage of hazardous materials, the management and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes, discharges to air and water, the cleanup of contaminated sites, dam safety and other matters relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety. PUCs also set conditions and standards for the water and wastewater services we deliver.

Environmental, health and safety, and water quality regulations are complex and change frequently. For example, while the EPA has issued a non-enforceable Health Advisory for the combined level of two perfluorinated compounds, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection has adopted a more stringent maximum contaminant level for a third compound, perfluorononanoic acid, or PFNA, and perfluorooctanoic acid, or PFOA, and will be seeking to adopt similar standards for other perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, or PFAS. The overall trend has been that drinking water standards have become increasingly more stringent over time. As newer or stricter standards are introduced, our capital and operating costs could increase. We incur substantial costs associated with compliance with the environmental, health and safety, and water quality standards to which our operations are subject and we invest in technology solutions for enhanced detection and monitoring. In the past, our

Regulated Businesses

have generally been able to recover the costs associated with compliance; however, this recovery is affected by regulatory lag and the corresponding uncertainties surrounding rate recovery. We estimate that we will make capital expenditures of

$133 million

and

$120 million

during


and


, respectively, for environmental control facilities, which we define for this purpose as any project (or portion thereof) that involves the preservation of air, water or land. We also maintain an environmental program that includes responsible business practices, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and effective use of natural resources. We believe that our operations are materially in compliance with, and in many cases surpass, minimum standards required by applicable environmental laws and regulations.

Item 3—Legal Proceedings

for additional information.

Safe Drinking Water Act

The Safe Drinking Water Act and related regulations establish national quality standards for drinking water. The EPA has issued rules governing the levels of numerous, naturally occurring and man-made chemical and microbial contaminants and radionuclides allowable in drinking water, and continues to propose new rules. These rules also prescribe testing requirements for detecting regulated contaminants, the treatment systems that may be used for removing those contaminants, and other requirements. To date, the EPA has set standards for approximately90contaminants and indicators for drinking water, and there is a process in place to make a regulatory determination on at least five additional compounds every five years.

To help formulate the basis for future regulations, the EPA has the authority to require monitoring for additional, unregulated contaminants under the Unregulated Contaminant Monitoring Rule (the “Monitoring Rule”). Our facilities have participated in the data gathering effort for the Monitoring Rule in previous rounds, which occurs every five years, and are also a participant in the ongoing fourth round, which is scheduled for completion by the end of 2020. There are millions of other chemical compounds that are not regulated, many of which are lacking a testing methodology, occurrence data, health effects information and/or treatment technology. The process of developing new drinking water standards is long and complex, but we actively participate with the EPA and other water industry groups by sharing research and water quality operational knowledge. See Item 1—Business—Research and Development—Emerging Containments for additional information.









To effect the removal or inactivation of microbial organisms, the EPA has established various rules to improve the disinfection and filtration of drinking water and to reduce consumers’ exposure to disinfectants and by-products of the disinfection process. In 2006, the EPA issued the Long-Term 2 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule and the Stage 2 Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproduct Rule and finalized the Ground Water Rule, which is applicable to systems providing water from underground sources. In 2016, the revised Total Coliform Rule implemented a “find and fix” process where exceeding bacterial trigger levels requires an assessment to correct any sanitary defects. We are within the EPA’s time frame for compliance with these standards, which includes sample collection, data analysis, engineering planning and system implementation. Recent monitoring under the Long-Term 2 Rule has resulted in the need for more than30of our surface water systems to provide additional protection against cryptosporidium. In most cases, this will involve installing UV disinfection at an estimated cost ranging from$150 millionto$250 million. Further, the EPA is actively considering regulations for a number of contaminants, including strontium, hexavalent chromium, fluoride, nitrosamines, perchlorate, some pharmaceuticals and certain volatile organic compounds. We do not anticipate that any such regulations, if enacted, will require implementation in 2019.

Across the Company, we conduct over one million water quality tests each year at our laboratory facilities and plant operations, including continuous online instrumentations such as monitoring turbidity levels, disinfectant residuals and adjustments to chemical treatment based on changes in incoming water. We participate in the Partnership for Safe Water, the EPA’s voluntary program to meet more stringent goals for reducing microbial contaminants. With69of our81surface water treatment plants receiving the EPA program’s prestigious “Director” award, which recognizes utilities that (i) have completed a comprehensive self-assessment report, (ii) created an action plan for continuous improvement, and (iii) produced high-quality drinking water, we account for approximately one-third of the plants receiving such awards nationwide. In addition,67of our surface water treatment plants have received the “Five-Year Phase III” award,62plants have received the “Ten-Year Phase III” award,58plants have received the “Fifteen-Year Phase III” award, and3plants have received the “Twenty-Year Phase III” award; these awards recognize plants that have met the Director award status for five, 10, 15 and 20 years, respectively. Further,nineof our surface water plants have received the “Presidents” award, which recognizes treatment plants that achieve the Partnership’s rigorous individual filter effluent turbidity standards.

Although it is difficult to project the ultimate costs of complying with the above or other pending or future requirements, we expect current requirements under the Safe Drinking Water Act and other similar laws to be recoverable through the regulatory process and therefore compliance costs are not expected to have a material impact on our operations or financial condition. In addition, capital expenditures and operating costs to comply with environmental mandates have been traditionally recognized by PUCs as appropriate for inclusion in establishing rates. As a result, we expect to recover the operating and capital costs resulting from these pending or future requirements.

Lead and Copper Rule and Reduction of Lead in Drinking Water Act

Across the country, there is a renewed focus on the potential risk of lead in drinking water. In 1991, the EPA published the Lead and Copper Rule (“LCR”) to control lead and copper in drinking water and, since that time, has issued minor revisions in 2000, 2004 and 2007, enhancing monitoring, reporting and public education requirements. In 2011, Congress enacted the Reduction of Lead in Drinking Water Act regarding the use and introduction into commerce of lead pipes, plumbing fittings for fixtures, solder and flux. While these advances have made an impact in reducing lead exposure in drinking water, legacy lead plumbing materials, primarily in building plumbing, still remain in many communities. The EPA is currently working to develop long-term revisions to the LCR, with a revised draft likely in 2019. It is currently estimated that approximately 5% of our service lines contain lead (“LSLs”). We have reviewed our inventories of company owned service lines, our related practices and are working with stakeholders to develop feasible solutions to remove legacy lead from service lines in older neighborhoods. Our goal is to replace our LSLs in most areas over an approximate 10-year time frame, at an estimated cost ranging from

$600 million

to

$1.2 billion

. In cases where we are replacing an American Water owned LSL, our standard approach will be to replace the company-owned portion of the service line, and work with the customer to replace the customer-owned portion of the service line at the same time. Replacing the full service line is considered a best practice as advised by the Lead Service Line Replacement Collaborative and the American Water Works Association. The Lead Service Line Replacement Collaborative is a diverse group of public health, water utility, environmental, labor, consumer, and housing organizations from across the country working together to encourage communities to accelerate the full replacement of LSLs through collaborative efforts at the local level. The prioritization of this work will depend on several factors, including our planned water main and service line renewal projects, adjacent projects by municipalities or other utilities, LCR compliance monitoring results and cooperation with our customers with respect to the customer-owned portion of the service line. There is also a special focus placed on low-income neighborhoods.









Clean Water Act

The Clean Water Act regulates discharges from drinking water and wastewater treatment facilities into lakes, rivers, streams and groundwater. In addition to requirements applicable to our wastewater collection systems, our operations require discharge permits under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit program established under the Clean Water Act, which must be renewed every five years. Pursuant to the NPDES permit program, the EPA and implementing states set maximum discharge limits for wastewater effluents and overflows from wastewater collection systems. Discharges that exceed the limits specified under NPDES permits can lead to the imposition of fines and penalties, and persistent non-compliance could lead to significant fines and penalties and other compliance costs. In addition, the difficulty of obtaining and complying with NPDES permits, and renewing expiring permits, may impose time and cost burdens on our operations. From time to time, discharge violations occur at our facilities, some of which result in fines. We do not expect any such violations or fines to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.



Environmental, Social Responsibility and Governance

Integrating environmental, social responsibility and governance (“ESG”) policies and practices into our daily operations emphasizes our belief that the only way to do business is to do it responsibly, and that the “how” is just as important as the “what” for long-term financial sustainability. Being committed to ESG principles means striving to:

•keep employees safe and injury-free, and develop each person to his or her full potential;

•be a leader in environmental sustainability, caring for the planet, and leading the nation in outstanding water safety and quality;

•deliver personalized customer service with empathy and care;

•make communities better because we are there; and

•be transparent, accessible and well-governed for our shareholders and investors.

This focus is derived from our vision statement, “clean water for life,” and our core values: (i) safety; (ii) trust; (iii) environmental leadership; (iv) teamwork; and (v) high performance, the principles by which we work and live. Our vision and values drive our company strategy, which is centered on five central themes:

•Safety—The safety of our employees and our customers is the number one focus for American Water.

•Customers—Our customers are at the center of everything we do, helping us to shape our strategic priorities. We challenge ourselves so that if our regulated utility customers had a choice of providers, we would want them to choose us.

•People—Maintaining an environment which is open, transparent, diverse and inclusive, and where our people feel valued, included and accountable, is critical to our ability to serve our customers every day.

•Operational Excellence—Our operational excellence strategy helps us to find better and more efficient ways to do business, and to provide safe, clean and affordable water services for our customers.

•Growth—We believe that when companies grow, they can invest more in creating stable jobs, training, benefits, infrastructure and our communities. Our growth benefits all of our stakeholders, including our shareholders.

In 2017, we issued our fourth biennial Corporate Responsibility Report, covering our performance in 2015 to 2016. Our first report was issued in 2011, making us the first large water services company to measure its performance against the Global Reporting Index. In addition, our sustainability practices have supported our inclusion in the Euronext Vigeo®U.S. 50 index, FTSE4Good index series, 2018 Constituent MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes, NAACP Equity Inclusion and Empowerment Index and the most recent 2019 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index. Highlights of our commitment to our ESG policies and practices are summarized below:

Environmental and Sustainability Practices

•Energy Use

•Lowered our greenhouse gas emissions through December 31, 2017 by approximately 31% since our base year of 2007 with a goal of reducing 40% by 2025.

•Design, construct, operate and maintain our systems for efficiency and best practices.

•Water Supply

•Deconstructed the San Clemente Dam in California to restore the “run of the river” and we are building the Water Supply Project using marine life friendly slant wells.









•Water Policy Leadership

•Expect to spend between$8.0 billionand$8.6 billionon capital investments from 2019 to 2023 to address aging infrastructure, reduce or eliminate leaks, improve cyber and physical security, and increase resiliency of critical assets from the impacts of climate variability.

•Scientists dedicated to research and partnering with water research foundations, on water quality and technology-water source monitoring.

•Collaboration and partnerships with federal and state agencies to support effective environmental, health and safety and water quality standards and regulations.

Social Responsibility

•Our People

•During 2018, nearly 80,000 hours of safety training were completed by our employees.

•During 2018, over 86% of our job requisitions had a diverse candidate pool, with more than 50% of transfers or promotions filled by minority, female, veteran or disabled individuals.

•Our Customers

•Achieved a customer satisfaction rating in the top quartile among our industry peer group.

•Our Communities

•More than 5,000 hours of Company-sponsored community service performed during 2018 by our employees.

•Company-sponsored workplace giving campaigns with the United Way and Water For People.

•Through annual contributions from the American Water Charitable Foundation, we focused on supporting our employees in their own charitable endeavors, providing support for disaster relief efforts, and providing funding for initiatives related to clean water, conservation, education and community sustainability.

Governance

•Board and Committee

•The Board of Directors and each of its committees are led by an independent, non-executive chairperson.

•Board of Directors met 13 times in 2018.

•Established the Safety, Environmental, Technology and Operations committee of the Board of Directors.

•Diversity

•We have achieved gender parity among the members of the Board of Directors.

•Our average director tenure is approximately seven years.

•Demonstrated & Representative Expertise

•Our Board of Directors has demonstrated expertise, including experience in utilities, cybersecurity, financial services, serving as a public company CEO, operational and manufacturing, and global entity management.



Research and Development

Our Research and Development Program

We maintain an industry-leading Research and Development (“R&D”) program that is designed to enhance our services, help ensure compliance, and improve quality and operational effectiveness. Our R&D personnel are located in New Jersey and Illinois, the latter housing our quality control and testing laboratory, which supports our R&D activities through testing and analysis.









We continue to leverage the Company’s expertise and collaborate with the EPA and state agencies to help establish effective environmental, health and safety, and water quality standards and regulation. This relationship includes the sharing of our research, such as our treatment and distribution system optimization research and our national water quality monitoring data. Our engagement with the EPA provides us with early insight into emerging regulatory issues and initiatives, thereby allowing us to anticipate and to accommodate our future compliance requirements. We also frequently engage with the Centers for Disease Control and other state environmental agencies. We believe that continued R&D activities are critical for providing safe, reliable and affordable services, as well as maintaining our leadership position in the industry, which provides us with a competitive advantage as we seek additional business with new and existing customers.

Emerging Contaminants

Emerging contaminants include chemicals such as pharmaceuticals, personal care products, pesticides, herbicides and endocrine disrupting compounds, as well as some naturally occurring microbes, such as bacteria, viruses and parasites, which have been detected in drinking water supplies, for which the risk to the public’s health is not fully understood and/or has not been quantified. While these contaminants have been present in our drinking water for as long as they have been in use, technological advances have only recently made it possible to detect many of them. The ability to detect contaminants, even at trace levels, has raised questions among regulators and government agencies, further affecting the public’s perception of drinking water quality.

The Chemicals Abstract Service Registry contains over 140 million registered chemicals, with a new substance being produced approximately every 3 seconds from chemical breakdown and reformation. There are over 1,400 microbes which can affect drinking water. We are continually investigating new substances and contaminants, employing a team of scientists, engineers and public health professionals to identify threats to our water supply, to act on emerging regulations and new health advisories, and to evaluate the benefits of alternative or advanced treatment technologies. We maintain state-of-the-art water quality testing equipment and implement new and emerging technologies to help predict and manage potential water supply contamination issues. Examples of our efforts include:

•using our research findings to communicate information to our customers on the actions they can take to manage Legionella (the Centers for Disease Control statistics indicate that water-associated disease from Legionella is on the rise, with exposure typically associated with customer-owned plumbing systems in large buildings);

•aerial drone testing to detect harmful algal blooms and testing ultrasonic technology to help prevent taste and odor events and to eliminate cyanotoxins before they get to the water treatment plant;

•the implementation ofwater source assessment tools, including sensors and analytics,to evaluate and track chemical storage and transport through watersheds and to detect source water contamination events; and

•the implementation of activated carbon and biofiltration for the control of emerging contaminants.

Service Company and Security

American Water Works Service Company, Inc. (the “Service Company”) is our wholly owned subsidiary that provides support and operational services to the Company’s operating subsidiaries. These services are predominantly provided to ourRegulated Businessesunder contracts that have been approved by PUCs, where necessary, and are also provided to ourMarket-Based Businessesorganized under American Water Enterprises, LLC, our wholly owned subsidiary (“AWE”), and Keystone as requested or may otherwise be necessary. Services provided by the Service Company may include accounting and finance, administration, business development, communications, compliance, education and training, engineering, health and safety, human resources, information systems, internal audit, investor relations, legal and governance, operations, procurement, rates and regulatory support, security, risk management and insurance, treasury, water quality and R&D. The Service Company also operates two national customer service centers located in Alton, Illinois and Pensacola, Florida, which provide customer relations, field service and operational support to ourRegulated Businesses. Services are provided by the Service Company at cost, enabling our operating subsidiaries to fulfill their responsibilities in a cost-effective manner, while providing them access to in-depth, functional expertise.

Our security team provides oversight and policy guidance on physical, cyber and information security, as well as business continuity, throughout our operations. It is responsible for designing, implementing, monitoring and supporting effective physical and technical security controls for our physical assets, business systems and operational technologies. Risk assessments are conducted periodically to evaluate the effectiveness of existing security controls and serve as the basis for additional safeguards, security controls and measures. Operational and technical security controls are deployed and integrated as safeguards against unauthorized access to the Company’s information systems. These controls (i) are aimed at assuring the continuity of business processes that are dependent upon automation, (ii) seek to maintain the integrity of our data, (iii) support regulatory and legislative compliance requirements, and (iv) are aimed at maintaining safe and reliable service to our customers. We engage in partnerships with U.S. federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to coordinate and improve the security of our water delivery systems and to safeguard our water supply and operations.












Employee Matters

As ofDecember 31, 2018, approximately49%of our workforce was represented by unions, which include70collective bargaining agreements with15different unions. Additionally, as ofDecember 31, 2018we had two collective bargaining agreement beyond expiration, affecting approximately220employees, all of which are actively working under the terms of the existing agreement, and another collective bargaining agreement in its initial stage of renegotiation, affecting approximately140employees. During2019,18of our collective bargaining agreements will be expiring in accordance with their terms.

Every five years, we negotiate national health and welfare benefits with our union-represented employees. OnJuly 31, 2018, a new,five-year national benefits agreement was ratified, covering approximately3,200of our union-represented employees. Highlights of the new agreement include union-represented employees’ participation in the Company’s cash-based annual performance plan, changes to certain retiree medical benefits and additional medical plan options for our employees and their families.



Executive Officers

The following table provides the name, age, offices held and business experience for each of our executive officers, as ofFebruary 19, 2019:





NameAgeOffice and Experience

Susan N. Story59President and Chief Executive Officer.Ms. Story has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since May 2014. Ms. Story served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company from April 2013 until May 2014. Prior to joining American Water, she served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company Services, a subsidiary of Southern Company, from January 2011 until March 2013 and President and Chief Executive Officer of Gulf Power Company, also a subsidiary of Southern Company, from 2003 until December 2010. Since 2008, Ms. Story has served as a member of the Board of Directors of Raymond James Financial, Inc., a diversified financial services company, and as lead director since 2016. Since January 2017, Ms. Story has also served on the Board of Directors of Dominion Energy, Inc., a producer and transporter of energy.

Brian Chin45Senior Vice President, Strategic Financial Planning.Mr. Chin joined the Company as its Senior Vice President, Planning and Strategy Integration in June 2017. He has had his current title since February 15, 2019, and he also served as Interim Treasurer from October 26, 2018 until February 15, 2019. Prior to joining the Company, from May 2013 to April 2017, Mr. Chin served as the lead utility analyst for the North America research function at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. From 2001 to 2013, Mr. Chin worked in Electric Utilities Research at Citigroup. Within that period, Mr. Chin was the global head of Electric Utilities Research for Citigroup.

Melanie M. Kennedy45Senior Vice President, Human Resources.Since March 1, 2017, Ms. Kennedy has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President, Human Resources. From August 2014 until February 2017, Ms. Kennedy served as Vice President, Human Resources of the Company, and from August 2012 to August 2014, she served as Director, Human Resources in the Company's Northeast Division. Ms. Kennedy initially joined the Company in 2007, and before that time, she practiced law for nine years.

Walter J. Lynch56Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Mr. Lynch has over 20 years of experience in the water and wastewater industry. He has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2016, as Chief Operating Officer of Regulated Operations from February 2010 to December 2015, and President of Regulated Operations from July 2008 to December 2015. Mr. Lynch joined the Company in 2001. Mr. Lynch is on the Board of Directors of the National Association of Water Companies and serves on its Executive Committee. In addition, Mr. Lynch also serves on the Water Research Foundation Board of Trustees.

James S. Merante44Vice President and Treasurer. Mr. Merante was appointed as the Company's Vice President and Treasurer on February 15, 2019. Prior to that, Mr. Merante was Vice President, Internal Audit, from February 2018 to February 15, 2019, and served as Divisional Chief Financial Officer for the Company's Mid-Atlantic Division from July 2014 to February 2018. Prior to joining American Water, Mr. Merante served as Vice President of Operations for FSM, Inc., a private digital media company, from February 2010 until July 2014. Mr. Merante is licensed as a Certified Public Accountant in Pennsylvania.

Michael A. Sgro60Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.Mr. Sgro has 25 years of experience in the water and wastewater industry. He has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since January 1, 2016 and its Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from February 2015 to January 2016. Prior to that, he served as the Company’s Interim General Counsel and Secretary from January 2015 until February 2015 and as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of American Water’s Northeast Division beginning in 2002.

Linda G. Sullivan55Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.Ms. Sullivan has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 1, 2016 and the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from May 2014 to December 31, 2015. Prior to joining American Water, Ms. Sullivan served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Southern California Edison Company, a subsidiary of Edison International, from July 2009 until May 2014, and Vice President and Controller of both Edison International and Southern California Edison Company, from July 2004 until July 2009. Ms. Sullivan is a Certified Public Accountant (inactive) and a Certified Management Accountant. On April 27, 2017, Ms. Sullivan was elected to the Board of Directors of NorthWestern Corporation, where she serves as the Chair of its Audit Committee and on its Human Resources Committee. In addition, Ms. Sullivan serves on the Board of Directors of University of Maryland University College Ventures and on its Audit & Finance Committee and is a member of the EPA’s Finance Advisory Board.













NameAgeOffice and Experience

Radhakrishnan Swaminathan57Executive Vice President, Chief Customer, Strategy and Technology Officer.Mr. Swaminathan has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Customer, Strategy and Technology Officer since November 1, 2018. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Chief Technology and Innovation Officer of the Company from November 1, 2017 to October 31, 2018. Mr. Swaminathan joined the Company in March 2016 as our Chief Technology and Innovation Officer. Prior to that, from October 2012 through February 2016, he served as Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities, of WIPRO Technologies. Prior to that, he served as the Director of Smart Grid Technologies at NextEra Energy, Inc. from January 2009 through September 2012.

Loyd “Aldie” Warnock59Senior Vice President of External Affairs and Business Development.Mr. Warnock has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President of External Affairs and Business Development since August 1, 2017. From April 2014 to July 31, 2017, Mr. Warnock served as the Company’s Senior Vice President of External Affairs, Communications and Public Policy. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Senior Vice President of External Affairs at Midwest Independent System Operator, Inc., a non-profit, self-governing organization, from March 2011 to April 2014. Prior to that, he served as Vice President of External Affairs for Allegheny Energy, Inc. from December 2005 to February 2011 and Senior Vice President of Governmental and Regulatory Affairs at Mirant Corporation from July 2004 to November 2005. Mr. Warnock serves on the Board of Directors of the National Association of Water Companies and on the Executive Advisory Board of the Mississippi State University College of Business.

Melissa K. Wikle53Vice President and Controller.Ms. Wikle joined the Company in July 2016 as its Vice President and Controller, and assumed the duties of the Company’s principal accounting officer in August 2016. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Wikle served as Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Columbus McKinnon Corporation, a publicly-traded worldwide designer, manufacturer and marketer of material handling products, systems and services, since April 2011. Ms. Wikle is a Certified Public Accountant.

Each executive officer is elected annually by the Board of Directors and serves until his or her respective successor has been elected and qualified or his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.



Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may obtain a copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or our current reports on Form 8-K, or any amendments to them, that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge, from the Investor Relations section of our website,http://ir.amwater.com,as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish the information to the SEC. Information contained on our website shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this report, and any website references included herein are not intended to be made through active hyperlinks. We recognize our website as a key channel of distribution to reach public investors and as a means of disclosing material non-public information to comply with our disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD.

The American Water corporate governance guidelines and the charters for each of the standing committees of the Board of Directors, together with the American Water Code of Ethics and additional information regarding our corporate governance, are available on our Investor Relations website,http://ir.amwater.com,and will be made available, without charge, in print to any shareholder who requests such documents from our Investor Relations Department, American Water Works Company, Inc., 1 Water Street, Camden, NJ, 08102.



ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

We operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

Risks Related to Our Industry and Business Operations

Our utility operations are subject to extensive economic regulation by state PUCs and other regulatory agencies, which significantly affects our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our utility operations also may be subject to fines, penalties and other sanctions for the inability to meet these regulatory requirements.

OurRegulated Businessesprovide water and wastewater services to our customers through subsidiaries that are subject to economic regulation by state PUCs. Economic regulation affects the rates we charge our customers and has a significant impact on our business and results of operations. Generally, the state PUCs authorize us to charge rates that they determine are sufficient to recover our prudently incurred operating expenses, including, but not limited to, operating and maintenance costs, depreciation, financing costs and taxes, and provide us the opportunity to earn an appropriate rate of return on invested capital.









Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and strategy depends on the rates authorized by the various state PUCs. We periodically file rate increase applications with state PUCs. The ensuing administrative process may be lengthy and costly. Our rate increase requests may or may not be approved, or may be partially approved, and any approval may not occur in a timely manner. Moreover, a PUC may not approve a rate request to an extent that is sufficient to:

•cover our expenses, including purchased water and costs of chemicals, fuel and other commodities used in our operations;

•enable us to recover our investment; and

•provide us with an opportunity to earn an appropriate rate of return on our investment.

Approval of the PUCs is also required in connection with other aspects of our utilities’ operations. Some state PUCs are empowered to impose financial penalties, fines and other sanctions for non-compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Our utilities are also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the PUCs that regulate their businesses and authorize acquisitions. Although we believe that each utility subsidiary has obtained or sought renewal of the material permits, approvals and certificates necessary for its existing operations, we are unable to predict the impact that future regulatory activities may have on our business.

In any of these cases, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be adversely affected. Even if rates are sufficient, we face the risk that we will not achieve the rates of return on our invested capital to the extent permitted by state PUCs. This could occur if certain conditions exist, including, but not limited to, if water usage is less than the level anticipated in establishing rates, or if our investments or expenses prove to be higher than the level estimated in establishing rates.

Our operations and the quality of water we supply are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent environmental, water quality and health and safety laws and regulations, including with respect to emerging contaminants, compliance with which could impact our operating costs, and violations of which could subject us to substantial liabilities and costs, as well as damage to our reputation.

Our regulated water and wastewater operations and the operations of ourMarket-Based Businessesare subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations and, in the case of our Canadian operations, Canadian laws and regulations that govern the protection of the environment, health and safety, the quality of the water we deliver to our customers, water allocation rights, and the manner in which we collect, treat, discharge and dispose of wastewater. These requirements include CERCLA, the Clean Water Act and the Safe Drinking Water Act, EPA requirements and similar federal, state and Canadian laws and regulations. For example, CERCLA authorizes the EPA to issue orders and bring enforcement actions to compel responsible parties to investigate and take remedial actions with respect to actual or threatened releases of hazardous substances, and can impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, on responsible parties for the costs thereof. We are also required to obtain various environmental permits from regulatory agencies for our operations.

In addition, state PUCs and environmental regulators also set conditions and standards for the water and wastewater services we deliver. If we deliver water or wastewater services to our customers that do not comply with regulatory standards, or otherwise violate environmental laws, regulations or permits, or other health and safety and water quality regulations, we could incur substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions or costs, as well as damage to our reputation. In the most serious cases, regulators could reduce requested rate increases or force us to discontinue operations and sell our operating assets to another utility or to a municipality. Given the nature of our business which, in part, involves supplying water for human consumption, any potential non-compliance with, or violation of, environmental, water quality and health and safety laws or regulations would likely pose a more significant risk to us than to a company not similarly involved in the water and wastewater industry.

We incur substantial operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental, water quality and health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, and their enforcement, generally have become more stringent over time, and new or stricter requirements could increase our costs. Although we may seek to recover ongoing compliance costs in our Regulated Businesses through customer rates, there can be no guarantee that the various state PUCs or similar regulatory bodies that govern ourRegulated Businesseswould approve rate increases that would enable us to recover such costs or that such costs will not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

We may also incur liabilities if, under environmental laws and regulations, we are required to investigate and clean up environmental contamination, including potential spills of hazardous chemicals, such as chlorine, which we use to treat water, or at off-site locations where we have disposed of waste or caused an adverse environmental impact. The discovery of previously unknown conditions, or the imposition of cleanup obligations in the future, could result in significant costs and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Such remediation costs may not be covered by insurance and may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future.









Limitations on availability of water supplies or restrictions on our use of water supplies as a result of government regulation or action may adversely affect our access to sources of water, our ability to supply water to customers or the demand for our water services.

Our ability to meet the existing and future demand of our customers depends on the availability of an adequate supply of water. As a general rule, sources of public water supply, including rivers, lakes, streams and groundwater aquifers, are held in the public trust and are not owned by private interests. As a result, we typically do not own the water that we use in our operations, and the availability of our water supply is established through allocation rights (determined by legislation or court decisions) and passing-flow requirements set by governmental entities. Passing-flow requirements set minimum volumes of water that must pass through specified water sources, such as rivers and streams, in order to maintain environmental habitats and meet water allocation rights of downstream users. Allocation rights are imposed to ensure sustainability of major water sources and passing-flow requirements are most often imposed on source waters from smaller rivers, lakes and streams. These requirements, which can change from time to time, and vary by state or region, may adversely impact our water supply. Supply issues, such as drought, overuse of sources of water, the protection of threatened species or habitats, contamination or other factors may limit the availability of ground and surface water.

For example, in our Monterey County, California operations, we are seeking to augment our sources of water supply, principally to comply with an October 20, 2009 cease and desist order (the “2009 Order”), as amended by an order in July 2016 (the “2016 Order”), of the SWRCB that requires California-American Water Company, our wholly owned subsidiary (“Cal Am”), to significantly decrease its diversions from the Carmel River in accordance with a reduction schedule that terminates on December 31, 2021 (the “2021 Deadline”). We are also required to augment our Monterey County sources of water supply to comply with the requirements of the Endangered Species Act. We cannot predict whether Cal Am will be able to secure alternative sources of water, or if Cal Am will be exposed to liabilities if it is unable to meet the 2021 Deadline under the 2009 Order and the 2016 Order. If Cal Am or any of our other subsidiaries are unable to secure an alternative source of water, or if other adverse consequences result from the events described above, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. SeeItem 3—Legal Proceedings—Alternative Water Supply in Lieu of Carmel River Diversions, which includes additional information regarding this matter.

The current regulatory rate setting process may result in a significant delay, also known as “regulatory lag,” from the time that we invest in infrastructure improvements, incur increased operating expenses or experience declining water usage, to the time at which we can seek to address these events in rate case applications; our inability to minimize regulatory lag could adversely affect our business.

There is typically a delay, known as “regulatory lag,” between the time one of our regulated subsidiaries makes a capital investment or incurs an operating expense increase and the time when those costs are reflected in rates. In addition, billings permitted by state PUCs typically are, to a considerable extent, based on the volume of water usage in addition to a minimum base rate. Thus, we may experience regulatory lag between the time our revenues are affected by declining usage and the time we are able to adjust the rate per gallon of usage to address declining usage. Our inability to reduce regulatory lag could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.









While these programs have reduced regulatory lag in several of our regulated states, we continue to seek expansion of programs to reduce regulatory lag in those jurisdictions that have not approved such programs. Furthermore, PUCs may fail to adopt new surcharge programs and existing programs may not continue in their current form, or at all. Although we intend to continue our efforts to expand state PUC approval of surcharges to address issues of regulatory lag, our efforts may not be successful, or even if successful they may not completely address our regulatory lag, in which case our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be materially and adversely affected.

Changes in laws and regulations and changes in certain agreements can significantly affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

New legislation, regulations, government policies or court decisions, including, without limitation with respect to federal and state income and other tax laws, can materially affect our operations, results of operations and cash flows. The individuals who serve as regulators are elected or political appointees. Therefore, elections which result in a change of political administration or new appointments may also result in changes in the individuals who serve as regulators and the policies of the regulatory agencies that they serve. New laws or regulations, new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, changes in agency policy, including those made in response to shifts in public opinion, or conditions imposed during the regulatory hearing process could have the following consequences, among others:

•making it more difficult for us to increase our rates and, as a consequence, to recover our costs or earn our expected rates of return;

•changing the determination of the costs, or the amount of costs, that would be considered recoverable in rate cases;

•restricting our ability to terminate our services to customers who owe us money for services previously provided or limiting our bill collection efforts;

•requiring us to provide water or wastewater services at reduced rates to certain customers;

•limiting or restricting our ability to acquire water or wastewater systems, purchase or dispose of assets or issue securities, or making it less cost-effective for us to do so;

•negatively impacting the deductibility of expenses under federal or state tax laws, the amount of tax credits or tax abatement benefits that may be available, the amount of taxes owed, or the ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards;

•changing regulations that affect the benefits we expected to receive when we began offering services in a particular area;

•increasing the costs associated with complying with environmental, health, safety and water quality regulations to which our operations are subject;

•changing or placing additional limitations on change in control requirements relating to any concentration of ownership of our common stock;

•making it easier for governmental entities to convert our assets to public ownership via condemnation, eminent domain or other similar process, or for governmental agencies or private plaintiffs to assess liability against us for damages under these or similar processes;

•placing limitations, prohibitions or other requirements with respect to the sharing of information and participation in transactions by or between a regulated subsidiary and us or our other affiliates, including Service Company and any of our other subsidiaries;

•restricting or prohibiting our extraction of water from rivers, streams, reservoirs or aquifers; and

•revoking or altering the terms of the CPCN issued to us by state PUCs.









Any of the foregoing consequences could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

In addition, new Federal, state and local laws, changes in existing laws, rules or regulations, or administrative interpretations thereof, could impact us. On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was signed into law, which, among other things, enacted significant and complex changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), including a reduction in the maximum U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% as of January 1, 2018, and certain other provisions related specifically to the public utility industry, including continuation of interest expense deductibility, the exclusion from utilizing bonus depreciation and the normalization of deferred income taxes. The enactment of the TCJA required re-measurement of our deferred income taxes, which materially impacted our 2017 results of operations and financial position and had a lesser impact on our 2018 results of operations and financial position. During 2018, all of our 14 jurisdictions subject to economic regulation opened formal proceedings related to the TCJA, and proceedings presently remain open in

three

of them. Further, the regulatory treatment of the re-measured deferred income taxes remains open in a number of these jurisdictions. At this time, we cannot predict the impacts on us of the regulatory treatment of the TCJA in these open proceedings or matters, or of the enactment or adoption of any Related Interpretations, if and when issued. Moreover, we are unable to determine or predict the potential impacts, if any, of any other new or amended laws, rules or regulations, or interpretations thereof, to the extent they may be ultimately enacted, adopted or issued, on us or our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

Service disruptions caused by severe weather conditions, climate variability patterns or natural disasters may disrupt our operations or reduce the demand for our water services, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

Service interruptions due to severe weather, climate variability patterns and other natural events are possible across all our businesses. These include, among other things, storms, freezing conditions, high wind conditions, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, landslides, drought, wildfires, coastal and intercoastal floods or high water conditions, including those in or near designated flood plains, severe electrical storms and solar flares. Weather and other natural events such as these may affect the condition or operability of our facilities, limiting or preventing us from delivering water or wastewater services to our customers, or requiring us to make substantial capital expenditures to repair any damage. Tariffs in place or cost recovery proceedings with respect to our Regulated Businesses may not provide reimbursement to us, in whole or in part, for any of these impacts.

Climate variability may cause increased volatility in weather and may impact water usage and related revenue or require additional expenditures, all of which may not be fully recoverable in rates or otherwise.

The issue of climate variability is receiving increasing attention nationally and worldwide. Some scientific experts are predicting a worsening of weather volatility in the future associated with climate variability. Many climate variability predictions, if true, present several potential challenges to water and wastewater utilities, such as:

•increased frequency and duration of droughts;

•increased precipitation and flooding;

•increased frequency and severity of storms and other weather events;

•challenges associated with changes in temperature or increases in ocean levels;

•potential degradation of water quality;

•decreases in available water supply and changes in water usage patterns;

•increases in disruptions in service;









•increased costs to repair damaged facilities; or

•increased costs to reduce risks associated with the increasing frequency of natural events, including to improve the resiliency and reliability of our water production and delivery facilities and systems.

Because of the uncertainty of weather volatility related to climate variability, we cannot predict its potential impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Although some or all potential expenditures and costs with respect to our Regulated Businesses could be recovered through rates, infrastructure replacement surcharges or other regulatory mechanisms, there can be no assurance that state PUCs would authorize rate increases to enable us to recover such expenditures and costs, in whole or in part.

A loss of one or more large industrial customers could have a material adverse impact upon the results of operations of one or more of our Regulated Businesses.

Adverse economic conditions or other factors can cause our customers, particularly industrial customers, to curtail operations. A curtailment of operations by an industrial customer would typically result in reduced water usage by that customer. In more severe circumstances, the decline in usage could be permanent. Any decrease in demand resulting from difficult economic conditions affecting these industrial customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Tariffs in place with respect to our Regulated Businesses may not reimburse us, in whole or in part, for any of these impacts.

OurRegulated Businessesrequire significant capital expenditures and may suffer if we fail to secure appropriate funding to make investments, or if we experience delays in completing major capital expenditure projects.

The water and wastewater utility business is capital intensive. We invest significant amounts of capital to add, replace and maintain property, plant and equipment, and to improve aging infrastructure. In


, we invested

$1.5 billion

in net Company-funded capital improvements. The level of capital expenditures necessary to maintain the integrity of our systems will continue into the future and may increase. We expect to fund capital improvement projects using cash generated from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper programs and issuances of long-term debt. We may not be able to access our revolving credit facility or the commercial paper, long-term debt and equity capital markets, when necessary or desirable to fund capital improvements on favorable terms or at all. If we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we could be unable to maintain our existing property, plant and equipment, fund our capital investment strategies, meet our growth targets and expand our rate base to enable us to earn satisfactory future returns on our investments. Even with adequate financial resources to make required capital expenditures, we face the additional risk that we will not complete our major capital projects on time, as a result of construction delays, permitting delays, labor shortages or other disruptions, environmental restrictions, or other obstacles. Each of these outcomes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Seasonality could adversely affect the volume of water sold and our revenues.

The volume of water we sell during the warmer months, typically in the summer, is generally greater than during other months, due primarily to increased water usage for irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other applications. Throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, the volume of water sold tends to vary with temperature, rainfall levels and rainfall frequency. In the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, or if there is more rainfall than normal, the amount of water we sell may decrease and adversely affect our revenues.

Three of our jurisdictions, California, Illinois, and New York, have adopted revenue stability mechanisms that permit us to collect state PUC-authorized revenue for a given period, which is not tied to the volume of water sold during that period. Revenue stability mechanisms are designed to allow utilities to recover the fixed cost of operations while supporting water conservation goals. In those jurisdictions that have not adopted a revenue stability mechanism, operating results could continue to be affected by seasonality.

Regulatory and environmental risks associated with the collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater may impose significant costs.

The wastewater collection, treatment and disposal operations of our subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation and involve environmental risks. If collection, treatment or disposal systems fail, overflow, or do not operate properly, untreated wastewater or other contaminants could spill onto nearby properties or into nearby streams and rivers, causing damage to persons or property, injury to aquatic life and economic damages. This risk is most acute during periods of substantial rainfall or flooding, which are the main causes of sewer overflow and system failure. Liabilities resulting from such damage could adversely and materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.









Contamination of water supplies or our water service provided to our customers could result in service limitations and interruptions and exposure to substances not typically found in potable water supplies, and could subject us and our subsidiaries to reductions in usage and other responsive obligations, government enforcement actions, damage to our reputation and private litigation.

Since we engage in the business of providing water service to our customers, contamination of the water supply, or the water service provided to our customers, could result in substantial injury or damage to our customers, employees or others and we could be exposed to substantial claims and litigation. Such claims could relate to, among other things, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, property damage, pollution, and environmental damage and may be brought by our customers or third parties. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings can and do occur, and we may not be protected from these claims or negative impacts therefrom in whole or in part by tariffs or other contract terms. Negative impacts to our reputation may occur even if we are not liable for any contamination or other environmental damage or the consequences arising out of human exposure to contamination or hazardous substances in the water or water supplies. In addition, insurance coverage may not cover all or a portion of these losses, and are subject to deductibles and other limitations. Pending or future claims against us could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We may sustain losses that exceed or are excluded from our insurance coverage or for which we are self-insured.

We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to minimize potential liabilities arising from our utility operations, as well as the operations of ourMarket-Based Businesses. Our insurance programs have varying coverage limits, exclusions and maximums, and insurance companies may seek to deny claims we might make. Generally, our insurance policies cover property damage, worker’s compensation, employer’s liability, general liability, cybersecurity, terrorism risks and automobile liability. Each policy includes deductibles or self-insured retentions and policy limits for covered claims. As a result, we may sustain losses that exceed or that are excluded from our insurance coverage or for which we are self-insured.

Although in the past we have been generally able to obtain insurance coverage related to our business, there can be no assurance that we can secure all necessary or appropriate insurance in the future, or that such insurance can be economically secured. For example, catastrophic events can result in decreased coverage limits, more limited coverage, increased premium costs or deductibles.

We are subject to adverse publicity and reputational risks, which make us vulnerable to negative customer perception and could lead to increased regulatory oversight or sanctions.

Water and wastewater utilities, including our regulated subsidiaries and ourMarket-Based Businesses, have a large direct and indirect customer base and, as a result, are exposed to public criticism regarding, among other things, the reliability of their water, wastewater and related or ancillary services, the quality of water provided, and the amount, timeliness, accuracy and format of bills that are provided for such services. Adverse publicity and negative consumer sentiment may render legislatures and other governing bodies, state PUCs and other regulatory authorities, and government officials less likely to view us in a favorable light, and may cause us to be susceptible to less favorable legislative, regulatory and economic outcomes, as well as increased regulatory or other oversight and more stringent regulatory or economic requirements. Unfavorable regulatory and economic outcomes may include the enactment of more stringent laws and regulations governing our operations and less favorable economic terms in our agreements related to ourMarket-Based Businesses, as well as fines, penalties or other sanctions or requirements. The imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material negative impact on us and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.









Unfavorable regulatory and economic outcomes also may include the enactment of more stringent laws and regulations governing our operations and less favorable economic terms in our agreements related to our Market-Based Businesses, as well as fines, penalties or other sanctions or requirements. The imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material negative impact on us and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The failure of, or the requirement to repair, upgrade or dismantle, any of our dams may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

The properties of ourRegulated Businessessegment include80dams, the majority of which are earthen dams, and the failure of any of which could result in personal injury and property damage, including without limitation downstream property damage, for which we may be liable. The failure of a dam would also adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any losses or liabilities incurred due to a failure of one of our dams might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future.

We also are required from time to time to decommission, repair or upgrade the dams that we own. The cost of such repairs or upgrades can be and has been material. The federal and state agencies that regulate our operations may adopt rules and regulations requiring us to dismantle our dams, which also could entail material costs. Although in most cases, the PUC has permitted recovery of expenses and capital investment related to dam rehabilitation, we might not be able to recover costs of repairs, upgrades or dismantling through rates in the future. The inability to recover these costs or delayed recovery of the costs as a result of regulatory lag can affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

Any failure of our network of water and wastewater pipes and water reservoirs could result in losses and damages that may affect our financial condition and reputation.

Our operating subsidiaries distribute water and collect wastewater through an extensive network of pipes and storage systems located across the United States. A failure of major pipes or reservoirs could result in injuries, property and other damage for which we may be liable. The failure of major pipes and reservoirs may also result in the need to shut down some facilities or parts of our network in order to conduct repairs. Such failures and shutdowns may limit our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and to meet the water and wastewater delivery requirements prescribed by government regulators, including state PUCs with jurisdiction over our operations, and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and reputation. Any business interruption or other losses might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. Moreover, to the extent such business interruptions or other losses are not covered by insurance, they may not be recovered through rate adjustments.

An important part of our growth strategy is the acquisition of water and wastewater systems, which involves risks, including competition for acquisition opportunities from other regulated utilities, governmental entities and other buyers, that may hinder or limit our ability to grow our business.

An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition of water and wastewater systems in order to broaden our current, and move into new, service areas. We may not be able to acquire other systems or businesses if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities or reach mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates. Further, competition for acquisition opportunities from other regulated utilities, governmental entities, and other buyers may hinder our ability to expand our business.









The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired systems or businesses with our existing operations could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions by us could result in, among other things:

•incurrence or assumption of debt, contingent liabilities and environmental liabilities of or with respect to an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time of acquisition;

•failure to recover acquisition premiums;

•unanticipated capital expenditures;

•failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting;

•recording goodwill and other intangible assets at values that ultimately may be subject to impairment charges;

•fluctuations in quarterly results;

•unanticipated acquisition-related expenses;

•failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; and

•difficulties in assimilating personnel, benefits, services and systems.

Some or all of these items could have a material adverse effect on our business. The systems and businesses we acquire in the future may not achieve anticipated sales and profitability or other perceived synergies, and any difficulties we encounter in the integration process could interfere with our operations, reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting.

We compete with governmental entities, other regulated utilities, and strategic and financial buyers for acquisition opportunities. If consolidation becomes more prevalent in the water and wastewater industries and competition for acquisitions increases, the prices for suitable acquisition candidates may increase and limit our ability to expand through acquisitions.

OurRegulated Businessesare subject to condemnation and other proceedings through eminent domain or other similar authorized process, which could materially and adversely affect their results of operations and financial condition.

Municipalities and other government subdivisions have historically been involved in the provision of water and wastewater services in the United States, and organized efforts may arise from time to time in one or more of the service areas in which ourRegulated Businessesoperate to convert our assets to public ownership and operation through exercise of the governmental power of eminent domain, or another similar authorized process. If a municipality or other government subdivision or a citizen group seeks to acquire our assets through eminent domain or such other process, either directly or indirectly as a result of a citizen petition, we may resist the acquisition.

For example, on November 27, 2018, Monterey, California ballot Measure J was certified as having been approved by a public vote, requiring the MPWMD to conduct a feasibility study and submit a written plan concerning the feasibility of a potential purchase of our California subsidiary’s Monterey water service assets without an additional public vote. Also, five municipalities in the Chicago, Illinois area formed a water agency that filed an eminent domain lawsuit against our Illinois subsidiary in January 2013, seeking to condemn a water pipeline that serves those five municipalities. SeeItem 1—Business—Regulated Businesses—Condemnation and Eminent Domain, which includes additional information regarding these matters.

Furthermore, the law in certain jurisdictions in which ourRegulated Businessesoperate provides for eminent domain rights allowing private property owners to file a lawsuit to seek just compensation against a public utility, if the public utility’s infrastructure has been determined to be a substantial cause of damage to that property. In these actions, the plaintiff would not have to prove that the public utility acted negligently. In California, most recently, lawsuits have been filed in connection with large-scale natural events such as wildfires. Some have included allegations that infrastructure of certain utilities triggered the natural event that resulted in damage to the property. In some cases, the PUC has disallowed recovery in rates of losses incurred by these utilities as a result of such lawsuits.

Contesting an exercise of condemnation, eminent domain or other similar process, or responding to a citizen petition, may result in costly legal proceedings and may divert the attention of management. Moreover, our efforts to resist the condemnation, eminent domain or other process may not be successful, which may require us to sell the operations at issue in a condemnation proceeding or to pay a private property owner compensation for the property damage suffered. If a municipality or other government subdivision succeeds in acquiring the assets of one or more of ourRegulated Businessesthrough eminent domain or other process, there is a risk that we will not receive adequate compensation for the business, that we will not be able to keep the compensation, or that we will not be able to divest the business without incurring significant charges. Any of these outcomes may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity.









We rely on technology systems to facilitate the management of our business and customer and supplier relationships, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business.

Our technology systems are an integral part of our business, and any disruption of these systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently, which, in turn, could cause our business and competitive position to suffer and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, we depend on these systems to bill customers, process orders, provide customer service, manage certain plant operations and construction projects, manage our financial records, track assets, remotely monitor certain of our plants and facilities and manage human resources, supply chain, inventory and accounts receivable collections.

Although we do not believe that these systems are at a materially greater risk of failure than other similar organizations, our technology systems remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from:

•power loss, computer systems failures, and internet, telecommunications or data network failures;

•operator error or improper operation by, the negligent or improper supervision of, or the intentional acts of, employees and contractors;

•physical and electronic loss of customer or employee data due to security breaches, cyber attacks, hacking, denial of services action, misappropriation of data or other property and similar events;

•computer viruses; and

•severe weather and other events, including without limitation, hurricanes, tornadoes, fires, floods, earthquakes and other disasters.

These events may result in physical and electronic loss of customer, employee or financial data, security breaches, misappropriation of property and other adverse consequences. In addition, a lack of or inadequate levels of redundancy for certain of these systems, including billing systems, could exacerbate the impact of any of these events on us. We may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our business, and we might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary upgrades or replacements of outdated existing technology to enable us to continue to operate at our current level of efficiency. Any or all of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

We may be subject to physical and/or cyber attacks.

As operators of critical infrastructure, we may face a heightened risk of physical and/or cyber attacks from internal or external sources. Our water and wastewater systems may be vulnerable to disability or failures as a result of physical or cyber attacks, acts of war or terrorism, vandalism or other causes. Our operational technology and IT systems throughout our businesses may be vulnerable to unauthorized external or internal access, due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. Unauthorized access to confidential information located or stored on these systems could negatively and materially impact our customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties. Further, third parties, including vendors, suppliers and contractors, who perform certain services for us or administer and maintain our sensitive information, could also be targets of cyber attacks and unauthorized access. While we have instituted safeguards to protect our operational technology and IT systems, those safeguards may not always be effective due to the evolving nature of cyber attacks and cyber vulnerabilities. We cannot guarantee that such protections will be completely successful in the event of a cyber attack.

If, despite our security measures, a significant physical attack or cyber breach occurred, our operations could be disrupted, property damaged, and customer and other confidential information lost or stolen; experience substantial loss of revenues, response costs and other financial loss; suffer a loss of management time, attention and resources from our regular business operations; and be subject to increased regulation, litigation, and damage to our reputation, any of which could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Experiencing a cyber security incident could also cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws and regulations or contracts that require us to securely maintain confidential data, causing us to incur costs related to legal claims or proceedings and regulatory fines or penalties. These types of events, either impacting our facilities or the industry in general, could also cause us to incur additional security and insurance related costs.

In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we collect and retain sensitive information, including personally identifiable information, about our customers and employees. In many cases, we outsource administration of certain functions to vendors that could be targets of cyber attacks. Any theft, loss and/or fraudulent use of customer, employee or proprietary data as a result of a cyber attack could subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers and regulators, among others.









We have obtained cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a security breach of our IT systems, but such insurance is subject to a number of exclusions and may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach. The market for cybersecurity insurance is relatively new and coverage available for cybersecurity events may evolve as the industry matures. In the future, adequate insurance may not be available at rates that we believe are reasonable, and the costs of responding to and recovering from a cyber incident may not be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates.

Our inability to efficiently upgrade and improve our operational technology and IT systems, or implement new systems, could result in higher than expected costs or otherwise adversely impact our internal controls environment, operations and profitability.

Upgrades and improvements to computer systems and networks, or the implementation of new systems, may require substantial amounts of management’s time and financial resources to complete, and may also result in system or network defects or operational errors due to multiple factors, including employees’ ability to effectively use the new or upgraded system. We continue to implement technology to improve our business processes and customer interactions, and have installed new, and upgraded existing, technology systems. These efforts support our broader strategic initiatives and are intended to improve our operations and enhance our customer service capabilities. Any technical or other difficulties in upgrading and improving existing or implementing new technology systems may increase costs beyond those anticipated and have an adverse or disruptive effect on our operations and reporting processes, including our internal control over financial reporting. We may also experience difficulties integrating current systems with new or upgraded systems, which may impact our ability to serve our customers effectively or efficiently. Although we make efforts to minimize any adverse impact on our controls, business and operations, we cannot assure that all such impacts have been or will be mitigated, and any such impacts could harm our business (individually or collectively) and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Our business has inherently dangerous workplaces. If we fail to maintain safe work sites, we may experience workforce injuries or loss of life, and be exposed to financial losses, including penalties and other liabilities.

Our safety record is critical to our reputation. We maintain health and safety standards to protect our employees, customers, contractors, vendors and the public. Although we intend to adhere to such health and safety standards and aim for zero injuries, it is extremely difficult to avoid all accidents or other safety incidents at all times.

Our business sites, including construction and maintenance sites, often put our employees, contractors and others in close proximity with large pieces of equipment, moving vehicles, pressurized water, underground trenches and vaults, chemicals and other regulated materials. On many sites we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safety procedures. If we fail to implement such procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective or are not followed by our employees or others, our employees, contractors and others may be injured or die. Unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, expose us to litigation and raise our operating costs. Any of the foregoing could result in financial losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

In addition, our operations can involve the delivery, handling and storage of hazardous chemicals, which, if improperly delivered, handled, stored or disposed of, could result in serious injury, death or property damage, and could subject us to penalties or other liabilities. We are also subject to regulations dealing with occupational health and safety. Although we maintain functional employee groups whose primary purpose is to ensure we implement effective health, safety, and environmental work procedures throughout our organization, including construction sites and maintenance sites, the failure to comply with such regulations or procedures could subject us to liability.

Work stoppages and other labor relations matters could adversely affect our results of operations.

As ofDecember 31, 2018, approximately49%of our workforce was represented by unions, and we had70collective bargaining agreements in place with15different unions representing our unionized employees. These collective bargaining agreements, including20which expired in2018, and18which will expire during2019, are subject to periodic renewal and renegotiation. We may not be able to successfully renew or renegotiate these labor contracts on terms that are fair to us. Any negotiations or dispute resolution processes undertaken in connection with our labor contracts could be delayed or affected by labor actions or work stoppages. Labor actions, work stoppages or the threat of work stoppages, and our failure to obtain favorable labor contract terms during renegotiations, may disrupt our operations and result in higher labor costs, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. While we have developed contingency plans to be implemented as necessary if a work stoppage or strike does occur, a strike or work stoppage may have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.









Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel.

The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel, including engineers, licensed operators, water quality and other operating and craft personnel, and management professionals who have the required experience and expertise. From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded for our business needs. In certain geographic areas, for example, we may not be able to satisfy the demand for our services because of our inability to successfully hire and retain qualified personnel.

In addition, as some of our key personnel approach retirement age, we need to have appropriate succession plans in place and to successfully implement such plans. If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel or effectively implement appropriate succession plans, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Financial and Market-Related Risks

Our indebtedness could affect our business adversely and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our liquidity needs.

As ofDecember 31, 2018, our aggregate long-term and short-term debt balance (including preferred stock with mandatory redemption requirements) was$8.6 billion, and our working capital (defined as current assets less current liabilities) was in a deficit position. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including:

•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital requirements or capital expenditures;

•exposing us to interest rate risk with respect to the portion of our indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates;

•limiting our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or make payments in connection with our other obligations;

•impairing our access to the capital markets for debt and equity;

•requiring that an increasing portion of our cash flows from operations be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for future operations, dividends on our common stock or capital expenditures;

•limiting our ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; and

•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that have less debt.

In order to meet our capital expenditure needs, we may be required to make additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility or issue new short-term and long-term debt securities. Moreover, additional borrowings may be required to refinance outstanding indebtedness. Debt maturities and sinking fund payments in2019,2020and2021will be$72 million,$32 millionand$303 million, respectively. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to access the debt capital markets on favorable terms, if at all. Moreover, if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify, limiting our ability to refinance existing debt on favorable terms.

In an attempt to manage our exposure to interest rate risk associated with our issuance of variable and fixed rate debt, we have entered into, and in the future may enter into, financial derivative instruments, including without limitation, interest rate swaps, forward starting swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements. SeeItem 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. However, these efforts may not be effective to fully mitigate interest rate risk, and may expose us to other risks and uncertainties, including quarterly “mark to market” valuation risk associated with these instruments, that could negatively and materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We will depend primarily on cash flows from operations to fund our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt. Therefore, our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt service obligations depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, competitive, legislative (including tax initiatives and reforms, and other similar legislation or regulation), regulatory and other factors largely beyond our control. If we do not have sufficient cash flows to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, reduce capital investments, sell assets, borrow additional funds or sell additional equity. In addition, if our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to incur indebtedness sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, we may be unable to plan for or respond to changes in our business, which could cause our financial condition, operating results and prospects to be affected adversely.









Our inability to access the capital or financial markets or other events could affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs at reasonable cost and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

In addition to cash from operations, we rely primarily on our revolving credit facility, commercial paper programs, and the capital markets to satisfy our liquidity needs. In this regard, our principal external sources of short-term liquidity are our$2.10 billioncommercial paper program and our$2.25 billionrevolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility expires in accordance with its terms in March 2023. We regularly use our commercial paper program under this revolving credit facility as a principal source of short-term borrowing due to the generally more attractive rates we generally can obtain in the commercial paper market. As ofDecember 31, 2018, American Water Capital Corp. (“AWCC”), our wholly owned financing subsidiary, hadnooutstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility, and had$954 millionof commercial paper outstanding and$81 millionin outstanding letters of credit. There can be no assurance that AWCC will be able to continue to access its commercial paper program or its revolving credit facility, when, as and if desired, or that the amount of capital available thereunder will be sufficient to meet all of our liquidity needs at a reasonable, or any, cost.

Under the terms of our revolving credit facility, our consolidated debt cannot exceed 70% of our consolidated capitalization, as determined under the terms of the credit facility. If our equity were to decline or debt were to increase to a level that caused our debt to exceed this limit, lenders under the credit facility would be entitled to refuse any further extension of credit and to declare all of the outstanding debt under the credit facility immediately due and payable. To avoid such a default, a waiver or renegotiation of this covenant would be required, which would likely increase funding costs and could result in additional covenants that would restrict our operational and financing flexibility.

Our ability to comply with this and other covenants contained in the revolving credit facility and our other consolidated indebtedness is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including events beyond our control. For example, events that could cause a reduction in equity include, without limitation, a significant write-down of our goodwill. Even if we are able to comply with this or other covenants, the limitations on our operational and financial flexibility could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to incur indebtedness or reduce equity in connection with financings or other corporate opportunities that we may believe would be in our best interests or the interests of our shareholders to complete.

Any of the foregoing events that impede our access to the capital markets, or the failure of any of our lenders to meet their commitments that result from financial market disruptions, could expose us to increased interest expense, require us to institute cash conservation measures or otherwise adversely and materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

American Water may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to American Water.

American Water is a holding company and, as such, American Water has no substantive operations of its own. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. American Water’s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends to American Water or repay indebtedness to American Water. Prior to paying dividends to American Water, American Water’s regulated subsidiaries must comply with applicable regulatory restrictions and financial obligations, including, for example, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends, as well as applicable corporate, tax and other laws and regulations and agreements, and covenants and other agreements made or entered into by American Water and its subsidiaries. American Water’s subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to pay dividends to American Water. A failure or inability of any of these subsidiaries to pay such dividends or repay intercompany obligations could have a material adverse impact on American Water’s liquidity and its ability to pay dividends on its common stock and meet its other obligations.









We may not be able to fully utilize our U.S. and state net operating loss carryforwards.

As ofDecember 31, 2018, we had U.S. federal and state NOL carryforwards of approximately$707 millionand$547 million, respectively, and management believes it is more likely than not that these NOL carryforwards will be recovered in the future. With the enactment of the TCJA, the Company analyzed the impacts of the reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% on the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, including its NOL carryforwards, and as a result, remeasured those NOL carryforwards as of the date of enactment of the TCJA based on this tax rate change.

Our federal NOL carryforwards will begin to expire in2028, and our state NOL carryforwards began to expire in 2019 and will continue to expire through 2037. We expect to fully utilize our federal NOL balance before it expires, and our ability to do so is primarily dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient taxable income. We have, in the past, been unable to utilize certain of our state NOL carryforwards, and the establishment or increase of a valuation allowance in the future would reduce our deferred income tax assets and our net income.

Our actual results may differ from those estimated by management in making its assessment as to our ability to use the NOL carryforwards. Moreover, adoption of Related Interpretations with respect to the TCJA and other changes in income tax laws, the economy and the general business environment could affect the future utilization of our NOL carryforwards. If we are unable to fully utilize our NOL carryforwards to offset taxable income generated in the future, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.

We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets, causing us to record impairments that may negatively affect our results of operations.

Our total assets include$1.6 billionof goodwill atDecember 31, 2018. The goodwill is primarily associated with the acquisition of American Water by an affiliate of our previous owner in 2003, the acquisition of E’town Corporation by a predecessor to our previous owner in 2001, the acquisition of Pivotal in 2018 and, to a lesser extent, the acquisition of Keystone in 2015. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price the purchaser paid over the fair value of the net tangible and other intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is recorded at fair value on the date of an acquisition and is reviewed annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. As required by the applicable accounting rules, we have taken significant non-cash charges to operating results for goodwill impairments in the past.

We may be required to recognize an impairment of goodwill in the future due to market conditions or other factors related to our performance or the performance of an acquired business. These market conditions could include a decline over a period of time of our stock price, a decline over a period of time in valuation multiples of comparable water utilities, market price performance of our common stock that compares unfavorably to our peer companies, decreases in control premiums, or, with respect to Keystone, fluctuations in the level of exploration and production activities in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions served by Keystone, a prolonged depression of natural gas prices or other factors that negatively impact our current or future forecasts of operating results, cash flows or key assumptions. In this regard, in the third quarter of 2018, we strategically narrowed the scope of the Keystone business solely to water transfer services due to operational and financial challenges in the other businesses of Keystone. As a result of this strategic change, we recorded a non-cash, pre-tax impairment charge of$57 millionin the third quarter of 2018 related to Keystone. SeeNote 8—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assetsin the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

A decline in the results forecasted in our business plan due to events such as changes in rate case results, capital investment budgets or interest rates, could also result in an impairment charge. Recognition of impairments of goodwill would result in a charge to income in the period in which the impairment occurred, which may negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and total capitalization. The effects of any such impairment could be material and could make it more difficult to maintain our credit ratings, secure financing on attractive terms, maintain compliance with debt covenants and meet the expectations of our regulators.

Market conditions may impact the value of benefit plan assets and liabilities, as well as assumptions related to the benefit plans, which may require us to provide significant additional funding.

The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy significant future obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. The value of these assets is subject to market fluctuations, which may cause investment returns to fall below our projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the pension and postretirement benefit plan assets can increase the funding requirements under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, our pension and postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. If interest rates decrease, our liabilities would increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. Further, changes in demographics, such as increases in life expectancy assumptions and increasing trends in health care costs may also increase our funding requirements. Future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets may not be fully recoverable in rates, in which case our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected.









In addition, market factors can affect assumptions we use in determining funding requirements with respect to our pension and postretirement plans. For example, a relatively modest change in our assumptions regarding discount rates can materially affect our calculation of funding requirements. To the extent that market data compels us to reduce the discount rate used in our assumptions, our benefit obligations could be materially increased, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

New accounting standards or changes to existing accounting standards could materially impact how we report our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.

Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.

Undetected errors in internal controls and information reporting could result in the disallowance of cost recovery and noncompliant disclosure.

Our internal controls, accounting policies and practices and internal information systems are designed to enable us to capture and process transactions and information in a timely and accurate manner in compliance with GAAP, taxation requirements, federal securities laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to us. Such compliance permits us to, among other things, disclose and report financial and other information in connection with the recovery of our costs and with the reporting requirements under federal securities, tax and other laws and regulations.

We have implemented corporate governance, internal control and accounting policies and procedures in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and relevant SEC rules, as well as other applicable regulations. Such internal controls and policies have been and continue to be closely monitored by our management and Board of Directors to ensure continued compliance with these laws, rules and regulations. Management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting and is required to assess annually the effectiveness of these controls. While we believe these controls, policies, practices and systems are adequate to verify data integrity, unanticipated and unauthorized actions of employees or temporary lapses in internal controls due to shortfalls in oversight or resource constraints could lead to undetected errors that could result in the disallowance of cost recovery and noncompliant disclosure and reporting. The consequences of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The inability of management to certify as to the effectiveness of these controls due to the identification of one or more material weaknesses in these controls could also increase financing costs or could also adversely affect our or AWCC’s ability to access the capital markets.

Additional Risks Related to OurMarket-Based Businesses

We (excluding our regulated subsidiaries) provide performance guarantees with respect to certain obligations of ourMarket-Based Businesses, including financial guarantees or deposits, to our public-sector and public clients, and these clients may seek to enforce the guarantees if ourMarket-Based Businessesdo not satisfy these obligations.

Under the terms of some of our agreements for the provision of services to water and wastewater facilities with municipalities, other governmental entities and other customers, American Water (excluding our regulated subsidiaries) provides guarantees of specified performance obligations of ourMarket-Based Businesses, including financial guarantees or deposits, primarily related to Military Service Group. In the event ourMarket-Based Businessesfail to perform these obligations, the entity holding the guarantees may seek to enforce the performance commitments against us or proceed against the deposit. In that event, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity could be adversely affected.

AtDecember 31, 2018, we had remaining performance commitments as measured by remaining contract revenue totaling approximately$4.3 billionrelated to our Military Services Group contracts, and this amount is likely to increase if ourMarket-Based Businessesexpand. The presence of these commitments may adversely affect our financial condition and make it more difficult for us to secure financing on attractive terms.









Our Market-Based Businesses’ operations under our Military Services Group are subject to various risks associated with doing business with the U.S. government.

We enter into contracts with the U.S. government for the operation and maintenance of water and wastewater systems, which contracts may be terminated, in whole or in part, prior to the end of the 50-year term for convenience of the U.S. government or as a result of default or non-performance by the subsidiary performing the contract. In addition, the contract price for each of these military contracts is typically subject to redetermination two years after commencement of operations and every three years thereafter. Price redetermination is a contract mechanism to periodically adjust the service fee in the next period to reflect changes in contract obligations and anticipated market conditions. Any early contract termination or unfavorable price redetermination could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Moreover, entering into contracts with the U.S. government subjects us to a number of operational and compliance risks, including dependence on the level of government spending and compliance with and changes in governmental procurement and security regulations. We are subject to potential government investigations of our business practices and compliance with government procurement and security regulations, which are complex, and compliance with these regulations can be expensive and burdensome. If we were charged with wrongdoing as a result of an investigation, we could be suspended or barred from bidding on or receiving awards of new contracts with the U.S. government or our existing contracts could be terminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.

Our Market-Based Businesses under the Contract Services Group operate a limited number of water and wastewater systems under long-term O&M contracts and face the risk that the owners of those systems may fail to provide capital to properly maintain those systems, which may negatively affect the Contract Services Group as the operator of the systems, and we may incur costs in excess of payments received.

The Contract Services Group operates a limited number of water and wastewater systems under O&M contracts. Pursuant to these contracts, the Contract Services Group operates the system according to the standards set forth in the applicable contract, and it is generally the responsibility of the owner of the system to undertake capital improvements. In some cases, the Contract Services Group may not be able to convince the owner to make needed improvements in order to maintain compliance with applicable regulations. Although violations and fines incurred by water and wastewater systems may be the responsibility of the owner of the system under these contracts, those non-compliance events may reflect poorly on the Contract Services Group as the operator of the system and us, and damage our reputation, and in some cases, may result in liability to us to the same extent as if we were the owner.

In addition, the Contract Services Group has entered into long-term contracts under which they agree to operate and maintain a municipality’s or other party’s water or wastewater treatment and delivery facilities, which includes specified major maintenance for some of those facilities, in exchange for an annual fee. The Contract Services Group is generally subject to the risk that costs associated with operating and maintaining the facilities, including production costs such as purchased water, electricity, fuel and chemicals used in water treatment, may exceed the fees received from the municipality or other contracting party. Losses under these contracts or guarantees may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

Keystone’s operations may expose us to substantial costs and liabilities with respect to environmental laws and matters.

Keystone’s operations, and the operation generally of natural gas and oil exploration and production facilities by Keystone’s customers, are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances governing the release of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These provisions may require the acquisition by Keystone of permits or licenses before providing its services to customers, prohibit the release of substances defined thereunder as hazardous in connection with these activities, and impose substantial liabilities for the violation thereof that may result from these operations. Failure to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and ordinances may result in substantial environmental remediation and other costs to Keystone, the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties or the issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting certain activities. Under existing environmental laws and regulations, Keystone could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether the release resulted from its operations, or whether its operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. While we have structured and maintained our ownership and control of Keystone’s operations in such a way that we believe should insulate the Company, its regulated subsidiaries and its other

Market-Based Businesses

from any liabilities associated with Keystone’s operations, including liabilities for environmental matters, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be sufficient to prevent the Company from incurring liability for the operations of Keystone.

Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes to these or other laws governing the natural gas and oil exploration industry that result in more stringent or costly water or wastewater handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require Keystone to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance with such requirements, may harm Keystone’s business and results of operations by reducing the demand for Keystone’s water and related services, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on Keystone’s competitive position, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.












