10-K


a07-5489_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

FOR
ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS

PURSUANT
TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
  THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
  15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
the transition period from                                         
to

Commission File Number 000-19406

Zebra
Technologies Corporation

(Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)

(847)
634-6700

(Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code)

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Exchange on which Registered

Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if
  the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the
  Securities Act). Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark
  if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
  Section 15(d) of the Securities Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark
  whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
  Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
  preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
  required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing
  requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Act) (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicate by check mark
  whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
  Securities Act).

Yes

o

No

x

As of June 30,
2006, the aggregate market value of each of the registrant’s Class A Common
held by non-affiliates was approximately $3,192,500,000. The closing price of
the Class A Common Stock on June 30, 2006, as reported on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, was $44.28 per share.

As of February 26,
2007, 68,940,433 shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, were
outstanding.

Documents
Incorporated by Reference

Certain sections
of the registrant’s Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy
Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 24, 2007 are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX

PART I

Item 1.

Business

Item
  1A.

Risk Factors

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

Item 2.

Properties

Item
  3.

Legal Proceedings

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Stock, Related
  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Item 6.

Selected Consolidated Financial Data

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
  Risk

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosures

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Item
  9B.

Other
  Information

PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate
  Governance

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

SIGNATURES

Signatures

CONSOLIDATED
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and
  Schedule

EXHIBITS

Index to
  Exhibits


PART I

References in this
document to “Zebra,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to Zebra Technologies
Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically states
otherwise.

Safe Harbor

Forward-looking
statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent
upon a variety of important factors which could cause actual results to differ
materially from those reflected in such forward looking statements. These
factors include:

·

Market acceptance of Zebra’s printer
and software products and competitors’ product offerings and the potential
effects of technological changes,

·

The effect of market conditions in
North America and other geographic regions,

·

Our ability to control manufacturing
and operating costs,

·

Success of integrating acquisitions,

·

Interest rate and financial market
conditions because of our large investment portfolio,

·

Foreign exchange rates due to the
large percentage of our international sales,

·

The outcome of litigation in which
Zebra is involved, particularly litigation or claims related to infringement of
third-party intellectual property rights, and

·

New
regulations in the European Union that restrict the use of certain hazardous substances
in electrical and electronic equipment.

When used in this
document and documents referenced, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,”
“will” and “expect” and similar expressions as they relate to Zebra or its
management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. We
encourage readers of this report to review Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in this
report for further discussion of issues that could affect Zebra’s future
results. Zebra undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events, changed circumstances or any other reason after the date of this annual
report.

Item 1.            Business

The Company

Zebra designs,
manufactures and distributes specialty printing devices that print variable
information on demand at the point of issuance. These devices are used
worldwide by manufacturers, service organizations and governments for automatic
identification, data collection and personal identification in applications
that improve productivity, deliver better customer service and provide more
effective security. Our product range consists of direct thermal and thermal
transfer label and receipt printers, passive radio frequency identification
(RFID) printer/encoders, dye sublimation card printers and digital photo
printers. We also sell a comprehensive range of specialty supplies consisting
of self-adhesive labels, thermal transfer ribbons, thermal printheads,
batteries and other accessories, including software for label design and
printer network management. On January 25, 2007, we acquired WhereNet Corp.,
which added active RFID systems to our product portfolio, and which is
discussed separately at the end of this Item 1, “Business.”

We design our products to
operate at the point of issuance to produce and dispense high-quality labels,
plastic cards, and photographs on demand. The exceptional diversity of
applications using our printer products for barcoding and personal
identification is comprised of routing and tracking, transactions processing,
and identification and authentication. They include applications that require
high levels of data accuracy and where speed and reliability are critical. They
also include specialty printing for receipts and tickets where improved
customer service and productivity gains may be the primary reason for printing,
rather than a barcoding application. Plastic cards are used for secure,
reliable personal identification or access control. Digital photo printers are
sold on an OEM basis to professional photographers and for use in kiosks at
retail and other locations.

Applications for our
printing technology span most industries and geographies. They include
inventory control, small package delivery, baggage handling, automated warehousing,
JIT (Just-In-Time) manufacturing, employee time and attendance records, file
management systems, hospital information systems, medical specimen labeling,
shop floor control, in-store product labeling, employee ID cards, driver’s
licenses, and access control systems. As of December 31, 2006, management
estimates that Zebra has sold over 5,700,000 printers to users in approximately
100 countries.


Our active RFID solutions
are designed to locate, track and manage enterprise assets. We provide
integrated wireless Real Time Locating Systems (RTLS) to companies primarily in
the industrial manufacturing, transportation and logistics, and aerospace and
defense sectors. These systems encompass wireless tags, fixed-position antennas
in addition to middleware, application software, and services for project
management, maintenance and support.

We believe competitive
forces on businesses worldwide to strengthen security, reduce costs, improve
quality, deliver better customer service, and increase productivity, support
the adoption of bar code, passive and active RFID and specialty printing
applications because these technologies deliver significant and predictable
economic benefits. Industry-mandated compliance requirements for bar code
labeling and RFID tagging are also important catalysts in the deployment of
these systems. We also believe that companies are adopting automatic
identification systems that incorporate barcoding and RFID for business
improvement applications. Many of these applications make increasing use of
enterprise-wide resource planning (ERP) and other process improvement systems
in manufacturing and service organizations. Greater emphasis on supply chain
management, the drive to reduce errors in healthcare, and heightened concern
over safety and security will lead to increased use of automatic identification
systems. Still other applications are taking advantage of recent advances in
wireless and hand-held computing technologies.

Concern for safety and
security and personal identification contribute to demand for our card printer
products. This concern has heightened interest in systems that provide personal
identification and access control, including secure ID systems for driver’s
licenses, employee and visitor badges, national identification cards, event
passes, club membership cards and keyless entry systems.

Zebra Technologies
Corporation was incorporated as an Illinois Corporation in 1969. We became a
Delaware corporation in 1991 in connection with its initial public offering,
which we completed in August 1991. We currently remain organized under the laws
of the State of Delaware, and our principal offices are located at 333
Corporate Woods Parkway, Vernon Hills, Illinois 60061. Our main telephone
number is (847) 634-6700 and our primary Internet Web site address is www.zebra.com.
You can find all of Zebra’s filings with the SEC free of charge through the
investor page on this Web site, immediately upon filing.

Products

Our printers are used to
produce bar code labels, passive RFID “smart” labels, receipts, wristbands and
tags, plastic cards, and photographs. We also sell related specialty labeling
materials, thermal ink ribbons, and bar code label design and network
management software. These products are used to provide bar code labeling, personal
identification, and specialty printing solutions principally in the
manufacturing supply chain, retail, healthcare and government sectors of the
economy. We work closely with distributors, resellers, kiosk manufacturers and
end users of our products to design and implement printing solutions that meet
their technical demands. To achieve this flexibility, we provide our customers
with a broad selection of printer models, each of which can be configured for a
specific application. Additionally, we will select and, if necessary, create
appropriate labeling stock, ink ribbons and adhesives to suit a particular
application. In-house engineering personnel in software, mechanical, electronic
and chemical engineering participate in the creation and development of
printing solutions for particular applications.

Sales of hardware
(printers and replacement parts) and supplies were as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Hardware

$

578,002

$

540,679

$

518,556

Percent of sales

76.1

77.0

78.2

Supplies

$

150,709

$

129,183

$

116,877

Percent of sales

19.8

18.4

17.6

Label and Receipt
Printers

We produce the industry’s
broadest range of rugged, on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal printers.
Our printing systems include hundreds of optional configurations that can be
selected to meet particular customer needs. We believe this breadth of product
is a unique and significant competitive strength, because it allows Zebra to
satisfy the widest variety of thermal printing applications.

Of the major printing
technologies, which include ink jet, laser and impact dot matrix, management
believes that direct thermal and thermal transfer technologies are best suited
for most bar code labeling applications. Thermal transfer printing produces
dark, solid blacks and sharply defined lines that are important for printing
readily scannable bar codes. These


images can be printed on
a wide variety of labeling materials, which enable users to affix bar code labels
to virtually any object. This capability is very important in the industrial
and service sectors Zebra serves. Direct thermal printing is best suited where
ease of use, smaller size and cost are important factors in the application.
Accordingly, this technology is found principally in Zebra’s mobile and desktop
units.

As of December 31, 2006,
we offered 42 bar code printer models with numerous variations, including:

Performance Tabletop Printers.

Zebra produces high-end printers
targeted at applications requiring continuous operation in high output,
mission-critical and industrial settings. These units provide a wide variety of
optional configurations, features, print widths, speeds and dot densities. We
offer four models under the XiIII Plus Series line. List prices range from
$2,995 to $7,495.

RFID
Printer/Encoders.

Zebra manufactures and markets a growing
line of printer/encoders used for high frequency (HF) and ultra-high frequency
(UHF) radio frequency identification (RFID) in the retail supply chain, for
defense logistics, and other applications. These units are used to print and
encode “smart labels” in a single pass. Smart labels are printable labels
embedded with an ultra-thin radio frequency transponder. Information encoded in
these transponders can then be read and modified by a radio frequency reader.
Zebra offers five RFID and two RFID-ready printer/encoders, which have list
prices from $1,695 to $6,995.

Mid-Range Tabletop Printers.

We offer five printer models designed
for demanding commercial applications. These units offer a range of
configurations and features designed to optimize price and performance.
Products in this category include the Zebra Stripe

â

,
S4M, 105SI and the popular Z Series printers. List prices range from $1,145 to
$3,490.

Desktop Printers.

Applications
with lower volume or space restrictions suit Zebra’s desktop printers. We
currently offer 10 desktop models consisting of direct thermal and thermal
printers in two- and four-inch widths. List prices range from $395 to $895.

Mobile Printers.

Zebra makes nine mobile printer
models, which offer durability, light weight and the industry’s highest levels
of secure wireless connectivity. These printer models come in two-, three- and
four-inch widths and are marketed under the Cameo, QL, MZ and RW lines. List
prices range from $450 to $1,095.

Print Engines.

Zebra’s
PAX print engines are sold to manufacturers and integrators of high-speed
automatic label applicator systems and are available with or without RFID smart
label capabilities.

Kiosk and TicketPrinters

.
Zebra also supplies seven thermal receipt, ticket and document printers for use
in kiosks and other unattended printing applications. Zebra’s Swecoin print
engines are sold to systems integrators to incorporate into kiosks and other
unattended printing applications. They are available in a variety of models
with widths from two to eight inches.

In addition to their use
in on-demand automatic identification applications, our thermal printers can
also be used for on-site batch production of custom bar code labels and other
graphics. This capability results in shorter lead times, reduced inventory, and
more flexibility than can be provided with traditional off-site printing.

Card Printers

Zebra makes 10 card
printer models for printing national identity cards, driver’s licenses,
employee identification badges, smart cards, on-demand access control cards,
gift cards and customer loyalty cards. These cards can typically be printed in
seconds for less than one dollar each. Users can select from a number of
printer options, including monochrome and color printing, single- and two-sided
printing, lamination, and magnetic stripe and smart card encoding. Bar codes,
smart chips and magnetic stripe encoding can be used to record such personal
data as health records, financial transactions, security access codes and vital
statistics. From the middle of 2006, all Zebra color card printers are “i-Series”
card printers, which incorporate features that automatically optimize printer
settings for a given ribbon. The list prices for all of Zebra’s card printers
range from $1,995 to $7,995.

Photo Printers

Digital photo printing is
an extension of our core thermal printing technology. With the November
2003 acquisition of Atlantek we began producing digital photo printers;
we currently manufacture two printers jointly developed
with and marketed by Eastman Kodak. Our high-speed thermal photo printer
is designed to work as part of a photo kiosk or a standalone in professional
photography applications. We currently sell this printer on an OEM basis
to Eastman Kodak,


which incorporates
the printer into Kodak photo kiosks and markets the standalone
version as the Kodak Professional 9810 Digital Photo Printer.

Supplies

Supplies products consist
of stock and customized thermal labels, wristbands, smart labels and tags,
plastic cards, card laminates and thermal transfer ribbons. Zebra promotes the
use of genuine Zebra brand supplies with its equipment.

Zebra fully supports its
printers, resellers and end users with an extensive line of superior quality,
high performance supplies optimized to a particular user’s needs. Supplies are
chosen in consultation with the reseller and end user based on the specific
application, printer and environment in which the labeling system must perform.
In the case of bar code labeling solutions, supplies also include proprietary
ribbon and label formulations that are designed to maximize bar code decoding
and printer performance while meeting the most demanding end user application
performance criteria. Factors such as adhesion, resistance to scratches,
smudges and abrasion, and chemical and environmental exposures are all taken
into account when selecting the type of ribbon and labeling materials. The use
of supplies that are not carefully matched to specific printers can degrade bar
code decoding rates, print speed and print quality.

Software

Zebra has specialized
printer management, label design and driver solutions to help unlock the full
potential of Zebra printers. The ZebraLink Solutions suite of networking,
software, firmware, and printer management products is designed for ease of
integration and use, from small business to enterprise supply chain
applications. Our goal is to provide software that enables high levels of functionality
to all major computer network and software systems. Network systems include
Ethernet, 802.11b/g with advanced securities and Bluetooth™ wireless systems.
Operating systems include Windows, UNIX, Linux and various IBM systems

The ZebraNet Bridge Enterprise
printer management application enables organizations to efficiently deploy,
manage and monitor Zebra printers from a single location. Leveraging the
powerful printer management features built into many Zebra printers and Zebra
print servers, ZebraNet Bridge Enterprise delivers real-time printer error and
status notifications for maximum up-time performance. Easy to use and flexible
tools within the program allow system administrators to create highly
manageable printer groups for real-time control and monitoring of Zebra
printers on their network.

Label design and
integration software is specifically designed to optimize the performance of
Zebra bar code label printers. Since introducing the label design and printer
configuration tools ZebraDesigner™ and ZebraDesigner™ Pro in 2005, the product
line has been enhanced with the release of ZebraDesigner™ for XML, offering
integration capabilities with XML based enterprise applications. Zebra also
continues to offer BAR-ONE for mySAP

â

Business Suite for users of the SAP

â

ERP system. To facilitate using Zebra printers
with a broad range of software applications, Zebra offers Windows printer
drivers designed to optimize the printer experience.

In 2006, Zebra began
offering a Unicode based Global Printing Solution for the industrial and high
performance Xi Series, 105SL, Z4mplus/Z6mplus and PAX print engines. The Zebra
Global Printing Solution lets the printer automatically output any language,
with no need for the operator to select the language, font, codepage or
otherwise adjust the printer.

Also released in 2006
were additions to Zebra’s family of XML enabled printing solutions. Zebra’s
award winning QL Plus and RW Series mobile printers now offer XML direct
connect printing capabilities as a standard feature.

Maintenance Services

For
bar code label and receipt printers, we currently provide service at depot
repair centers at our Vernon Hills, Illinois, Preston, U.K. and the Netherlands
facilities. We also provide service at a depot repair center in Toronto, Canada
through a partnership with Getronics. Zebra Authorized Service Providers (ZASP)
also provide repair services for most Zebra products at their locations. In
addition, IBM and National Service Center (NSC) provide on-site repair services
in the United States. We share the revenue for on-site service contracts sold
by IBM and NSC for Zebra printing systems installed in the United States, and
with IBM in Europe. Outside of the United States, Zebra’s resellers in each
country may provide maintenance service, either directly as ZASPs or through
independent service agents. Zebra also provides service and technical support
assistance from in-house support personnel located in the United States, the
United Kingdom and Singapore, who are available by telephone hotline five days
a week during regular local business hours. Also, for most Zebra products,
Zebra provides interactive technical support via the Internet, which can be
accessed through Zebra’s Web site,

www.zebra.com, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.


The
card printer depot repair facilities are located in Camarillo, California and
Preston, U.K. Card printer resellers can receive technical support assistance
from in-house support personnel located in the United States, the United
Kingdom and Singapore, who are available by telephone during regular business
hours. In addition, on-line support for card printers can be accessed through
the Web site,

www.zebracard.com, 24
hours a day, seven days a week.

Warranties

All Zebra printing
equipment is warranted against defects in material and workmanship for up to
one year. Printheads are warranted for six months, and batteries are warranted
for three months. Zebra supplies are warranted against defects in material and
workmanship for their stated shelf life or twelve months, whichever ends first.
Defective equipment and supplies may be returned for repair, replacement or
refund during the applicable warranty periods.

Zebra’s
Technology

Our products use thermal
transfer, direct thermal and thermal dye sublimation technologies. Each
technology has characteristics that provide specific benefits to the end user.

Thermal transfer printing
is used in all performance and some mid-range, desktop and mobile bar code
label printers, as well as high-speed print engines. This technology creates an
image by applying an electrically heated printhead to a ribbon that releases
ink onto labeling/ticketing media. The benefits of thermal transfer printing
include superior image quality, the ability to print on a wide variety of smooth-surfaced
materials, no requirement for specially coated or formulated labeling/ticketing
media and the ability to use inks that are not viable with alternative printing
technologies.

Direct thermal printing
is used in some mid-range, desktop and mobile printer products. Direct thermal
printing creates an image by applying the heated printhead directly to
specially treated paper, which changes color when heated. Direct thermal
technology is preferable where image durability is less critical and where the
application does not require specialty-labeling materials such as plastics or
metal foils.

Our card printers and
digital photo printers incorporate thermal dye sublimation for color printing.
This capability allows for the creation of personalized full color,
photographic quality plastic cards and high-quality photographs. Traditional
photographic processes are both more expensive and time consuming. We believe
that personalized card applications such as driver’s licenses, loyalty cards,
school and work identification cards, security access cards and financial
transaction cards are well suited to this technology. The growing acceptance of
digital photography, over traditional halide-based technology, offers growth
opportunities for Zebra in certain areas of photo printing.

Zebra’s printing systems
incorporate Company-designed computer hardware, electrical mechanisms and
software, which operate the printing functions of the system and communicate
with the host computer. Zebra’s bar code label printers operate using Zebra
Programming Language (ZPL

â

),
Zebra Programming Language II (ZPL II

â

),
Eltron Programming Language (EPL) or Comtec Printer Control Language (CPCL),
each of which is a proprietary printer driver language. These languages are
compatible with virtually all computer operating systems, including UNIX,
MS/DOS

â

and Windows.

Zebra guarantees backward
compatibility in ZPL and ZPL II to allow users to replace older Zebra printers
with newer equipment without costly reprogramming of label design programs. This
compatibility also allows users to operate multiple Zebra printers in different
applications using standardized programs and to integrate these printers into a
local area network. We believe that ZPL and ZPL II give us a competitive
advantage by ensuring compatibility across a broad range of present and future
printer products and by facilitating system upgrades and customer loyalty to
Zebra products. Some independent software vendors have written label
preparation programs with ZPL and ZPL II drivers specifically for Zebra
printers. ZPL and ZPL II label format programs can be run on a personal
computer with ordinary word processing programs, making ZPL and ZPL II
particularly adaptable to PC-based systems.

Zebra also sells radio
frequency identification (RFID) printer/encoders that can encode data into
passive RFID transponders embedded in direct thermal or thermal transfer
printable labels. These “smart labels” are finding growing acceptance in
commercial and military supply chain management, as well as many closed-loop
proprietary tracking applications. Zebra-manufactured printer/encoders and
smart labels support both HF (13.56 MHz) and UHF (860-960 MHz) applications for
RFID.

Sales and
Marketing

Sales.

We sell our products primarily through distributors, value-added
resellers (VARs), and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We also sell our
products directly to a select number of named accounts. For media and
consumables, we also sell directly to end users through the Internet and
telesales operations. Distributors and VARs purchase, stock and sell


a variety of automatic identification components from
different manufacturers and customize systems for end-user applications using
their systems and application integration expertise. Because these sales
channels provide specific software, configuration, installation, integration
and support services required by end users within various market segments,
these relationships allow Zebra to reach end users throughout the world in a
wide variety of industries. Zebra experiences a minor amount of seasonality in
sales, depending on the geographic region and/or vertical market.

We functionally classify our direct VARs as Premier
Partners, Advanced Partners, or Associate Partners, depending on their business
competencies, depth and breadth of their sales teams, customer support
capabilities, contributions to Zebra’s strategic goals and sales commitment to
Zebra. In addition, we offer VARs the opportunity to earn certifications for
mobile/wireless printers, supplies, services and radio frequency identification
(RFID) products in vertical markets. We also sell through distributors, which
in turn sell to an extended VAR community. All VARs, as well as OEMs and
systems integrators, provide customers with a variety of automatic
identification components including scanners, accessories, applications
software and systems integration expertise, and, in the case of some OEMs,
resell the Zebra-manufactured products under their own brands as part of their
own product offering. We believe that the breadth of this indirect channel
network, both in terms of variety and geographic scope, enhances our ability to
compete.

In some instances, we have designated a customer as a
Strategic Account when purchases of Zebra products reach specified levels and
support requirements for the account become highly customized. Zebra sales
personnel, either alone or together with our partners, manage these Strategic
Accounts to ensure their needs, including consistent support for projects and
applications, are being met.

The sales function also encompasses a group that
manages a small number of Global Alliances. They direct the business
development strategies for a limited number of third-party relationships that
are strategic to new demand creation for specific vertical markets and/or
specific applications.

Sales to international
customers as a percent of net sales were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Percent of sales

50.0

48.5

45.8

We believe that
international sales have the long-term potential to grow faster than domestic
sales because of the lower penetration of automatic identification applications
outside North America. As a result, Zebra has invested resources to support our
international growth and currently operates facilities and sales offices, or
has representation, in 26 different countries.

Marketing.

Marketing operations encompass
marketing communications, product marketing, vertical marketing, solutions
marketing, market research and channel marketing functions. The product
marketing group identifies, evaluates and recommends new product opportunities
and manages product introductions, positioning and demand creation. Product
marketing also focuses on strategic planning and market definition and analyzes
Zebra’s competitive strengths and weaknesses.

Customers

Zebra has sold over
5,700,000 bar code label and card printers to customers in about 100 countries
as of December 31, 2006.

ScanSource, Inc., is our
most significant customer. Our net sales to ScanSource, an international
distributor of Zebra product, as a percent of total net sales, were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Percent of sales

16.7

15.6

14.1

No other customer accounted
for 10% or more of total net sales during these years.

Production
and Manufacturing

We design our products to
optimize product performance, quality, reliability, durability and versatility.
These designs combine cost-efficient materials, sourcing and assembly methods
with high standards of workmanship. We assemble our products in-house largely
on a configure-to-order basis using components that have been sourced from
around the world. We


have the in-house
capability to produce mechanical assemblies and design many of our own tools,
fixtures and test equipment. Often, our manufacturing and test engineers
coordinate the development of new products with our new product engineers and
vendors. This collaboration increases manufacturing efficiency by specifying
and designing manufacturing processes and facilities simultaneously with
product design.

We buy prefabricated
component parts and subassemblies for use in the manufacture of our products.
Critical subassemblies include printheads, printed circuit board assemblies,
power supplies, integrated circuits, and stepper motors, which are obtained
from domestic and foreign suppliers at competitive prices. Purchase contracts
provide for price increases only in the event of certain increases in the costs
of raw materials. Zebra typically experiences significant variance in demand
thus carries inventory and partners with key suppliers to deal with the
variation.

Research
and Development

Zebra had research and
development expenditures as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Research and
  development expenditures

$

48,959

$

47,359

$

38,609

Percent of sales

6.4

6.7

5.8

We devote significant
resources to developing new printing solutions for our target markets and
ensuring that our efficiently manufactured products maintain high levels of
reliability.

Competition

Many companies are
engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of bar code label printers,
card personalization solutions and dye sublimation photo printers. We consider
our direct competition in bar code label and receipt printing to be producers
of on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal label printing systems and
supplies. We also compete, however, with companies engaged in the design,
manufacture and marketing of printing systems that use alternative
technologies, such as impact dot matrix, ink-jet and laser printing. Similarly,
we consider manufacturers of card personalization systems that are based on a
broad range of alternative technologies as competition.

Dye sublimation, the
technology incorporated in our card printer, is only one of several
commercially available types of equipment used to personalize cards. We also
compete with companies that produce identification cards using alternative
technologies, which include ink-jet, thermal transfer, embossing, film-based
systems, encoders, laser engraving and large-scale dye sublimation printers.
These card personalization technologies offer viable alternatives to Zebra’s
card printers and provide effective competition from a variety of companies,
many of which are substantially larger than Zebra. In addition, service bureaus
compete for end user business and provide an alternative to the purchase of our
card printing equipment and supplies. Manufacturers also use dye sublimation
technology in their digital photo printers.

Our ability to compete
effectively depends on a number of factors. These factors include the
reliability, quality and reputation of the manufacturer and its products;
hardware and software innovations and specifications; breadth of product
offerings; information systems connectivity; price; level of technical support;
supplies and applications support offered by the manufacturer; available
distribution channels; and financial resources to support new product design
and innovation. We believe that Zebra presently competes favorably with respect
to these factors.

We face competition in
one or more of our product lines from many competitors, including the following
(listed in alphabetical order): Altech; Argox; Canon; CIM; Cognitive Solutions,
a subsidiary of Axiohm Transaction Solutions; ColorX; Copal; Datacard; Datamax,
a unit of Dover Corporation; Evolis; Fargo Electronics; Fuji; Godex;
Hewlett-Packard; Hitachi; Intermec Technologies; Lexmark International;
LogickaComp; MagiCard; Matica; Microcom; Mitsubishi; NBS; Nisca; Olmec; O’Neil
Product Development; Olympus; Paxar; Polaroid; Printronix; Sato; Shinko; Song
Woo Electronics; Sony; Taiwan Semiconductor; Tokyo Electric Company; Victor
Data Systems; Woosim; and Xerox. Competition in the kiosk arena is vast. A few
of the competitors we face include Custom Engineering, Star Micronics, Epson,
Citizen, Boca Systems and Practical Automation.

The supplies business is
highly fragmented and competition is comprised of numerous competitors of
various sizes depending on the geographic area.


Alternative
Technologies

We believe that direct
thermal and thermal transfer printing will be the label and receipt printer
technology of choice in Zebra’s target applications for the foreseeable future.
Among the many advantages of direct thermal and thermal transfer printing is
the ability to print high-resolution, durable images on a wide variety of label
materials at relatively low costs and very high speeds compared with
alternative printing technologies. We view radio frequency identification
(RFID) smart label printing and encoding as a complementary technology to bar
coded label and receipt printing, offering significant growth opportunities to
Zebra as the technology becomes more widely adopted.

If other technologies
were to evolve or become available to Zebra, it is possible that those
technologies would be incorporated into our products. Alternatively, if such
technologies were to evolve or become available to our competitors, Zebra’s
products may become obsolete. This obsolescence would have a significant
negative effect on Zebra’s business, financial position, results of operations
and cash flows.

Therefore, we continually
assess competitive and complementary methods of bar code printer and other
means of automatic identification. Alternative print technologies assessed
include ink jet, laser, impact dot matrix and laser etching. While we cannot be
sure that new technology will not supplant direct thermal and thermal transfer
printing for bar code labels and receipts, we are not aware of any developing
technology that offers the advantages of direct thermal and thermal transfer
printing for our targeted label and receipt printer applications. We are
continually monitoring and evaluating new HF and UHF RFID technologies,
supporting their standards development, and rapidly adopting RFID into new
Zebra products as new markets and applications emerge.

Intellectual Property Rights

Zebra relies on a
combination of trade secrets, patents, employee and third party nondisclosure
agreements, copyright laws and contractual rights to establish and protect its
proprietary rights in its products. We have and actively protect several
domestic and international trademarks. We hold 252 United States and foreign
patents and have 225 United States and foreign patent applications pending
pertaining to products. The duration of these patents ranges from 14 to 20
years. The expiration of any individual patent would not have a significant
negative impact on our business.

Despite our efforts to
protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized
third parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or
otherwise obtain and use some technology and information that we regard as
proprietary. Moreover, the laws of some countries do not afford Zebra the same
protection to proprietary rights, as do United States laws. There can be no
assurance that legal protections relied upon by Zebra to protect its
proprietary position will be adequate. While Zebra’s intellectual property is
valuable and provides certain competitive advantages, we do not believe that
the legal protections afforded to our intellectual property are fundamental to
our success.

Patents have become
increasingly used by businesses generally as a strategic business tool and in
recent years the number of patent applications and grants has risen
dramatically. As a result, it is increasingly important that Zebra takes appropriate
steps to maintain and develop its own patent portfolio and reduce the risk of
disputes involving third party intellectual property rights.

During 2006, we acquired
patents as a result of a payment for the settlement of a lawsuit with Paxar
Americas, Inc. A portion of this settlement was applied to future use of
patents. This portion of the settlement has been recorded as intangibles and
will be amortized over the estimated useful lives of the patents, which range
from 4 to 7 years. In some cases, the useful lives may be less than the patent
lives. See Note 16 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this Form 10-K for further discussion of the settlement.

Other trademarks
mentioned in this report are the property of their respective holders and
include IBM, a registered trademark of International Business Machines; Kodak,
a registered trademark of the Eastman Kodak; UNIX, a registered trademark of
UNIX Systems Laboratories; MS/DOS and Windows, registered trademarks of Microsoft;
SAP, a registered trademark of SAP AG; Linux, a registered trademark of Linus
Torvalds; and Accelio Present Central, a registered trademark of Accelio.
Bluetooth is a trademark owned by Bluetooth SIG and used by Zebra under
license.

WhereNet Acquisition

On January 25, 2007, we
extended our automatic identification technology portfolio by acquiring
WhereNet Corp., a provider of active radio frequency identification (RFID)
based wireless solutions to track and manage enterprise assets, for $126
million in cash. Headquartered in Santa Clara, CA, WhereNet provides integrated
wireless Real Time Locating Systems (RTLS) to companies primarily in the
industrial manufacturing, transportation and logistics, and aerospace and
defense sectors. These systems help companies locate and track high-value
assets using battery-powered wireless tags, fixed-position


antennas and Web-enabled
software. They are employed in parts replenishment, vehicle inventory tracking,
truck yard management, marine cargo tracking, and work-in-process tracking,
among many other applications.

WhereNet’s solutions
encompass hardware, middleware, application software, and services for project
management, maintenance and support. Hardware consists primarily of proprietary
battery-powered RFID transponders and various reading devices. Manufacturing of
these products are accomplished by third-party contract manufacturers.
Middleware, application software and services are designed and delivered by
WhereNet personnel. Sales and service are made on a direct basis through
contracts with end-user customers, in addition to follow-on sales of
transponders and support services

Active RFID technology is
the basis on which WhereNet solutions are designed and built. Several companies
compete with WhereNet employing multiple technologies aimed at optimizing the
performance of supply chain, asset tracking and logistics networks. These
technologies include passive RFID, other active RFID platforms, GPS-based
technologies, WiFi-based technologies, and software platforms. Competing
wireless location and RFID-focused companies include Aeroscout Inc., Ekahau
Inc., I.D. Systems Inc., Identec Solutions, Intermec Inc., and RF Code Inc.
Larger, diversified companies competing with WhereNet include Cisco Systems
Inc., Lockheed Martin Corp., Roper Industries Inc., Siemens AG, and Motorola
Inc.

Employees

As of February 23, 2007,
Zebra employed approximately 2,800 persons. None of these employees is a member
of a union. We consider our employee relations to be very good.

Additional Information

For financial information
regarding Zebra, see Zebra’s Consolidated Financial Statements and the related
Notes, which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Zebra has a
single reportable segment for all of our operations and products. Financial
information about geographic areas is found in Note 17 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.


Item 1A.         Risk
Factors

Investors should
carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below,
as well as other disclosures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a
material adverse effect on Zebra’s business, financial condition, operating
results, and growth prospects.

Zebra could encounter
difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated
integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute
stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. Proposed acquisitions
that are not consummated may result in the write-off of certain acquisition
costs.

Zebra may acquire or make investments in other
businesses, technologies, services or products. For example, it acquired
WhereNet Corp. (“WhereNet”), in January 2007. The process of integrating any
acquired business, technology, service or product into operations may result in
unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. An acquisition may present
business issues which are new to Zebra. Integration of an acquired company also
may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise
be available for ongoing development of the business. The expected benefits of
any acquisition may not be realized. Moreover, Zebra may be unable to identify,
negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully. Future acquisitions
could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the
incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses. To the
extent that a proposed acquisition is not consummated, Zebra may be required to
write off certain costs associated with the acquisition, which could be
significant.

Zebra may
not be able to continue to develop products to address user needs effectively
in an industry characterized by rapid technological change.

To be successful, Zebra
must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by
continually improving its products as well as introducing new products and
services to address user demands.

Zebra’s industry is
characterized by:

·

Rapidly changing technology

·

Evolving industry standards

·

Frequent new product and service introductions

·

Evolving distribution channels

·

Changing customer demands

Future success will
depend on Zebra’s ability to adapt in this rapidly evolving environment. Zebra
could incur substantial costs if it has to modify its business to adapt to
these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes.

Zebra
competes in a highly competitive market, which is likely to become more
competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging
technology and changes in customer requirements.

Zebra faces significant
competition in developing and selling its systems. Principal competitors have
substantial marketing, financial, development and personnel resources. To
remain competitive, Zebra believes it must continue to provide:

·

Technologically advanced systems that satisfy the user demands,

·

Superior customer service,

·

High levels of quality and reliability, and

·

Dependable and efficient distribution networks.

Zebra cannot assure it
will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors.
Increased competition in printers or supplies may result in price reductions,
lower gross profit margins and loss of market share, and could require
increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing and
customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish
cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce
complementary products. Any of these factors could reduce Zebra’s earnings.

Zebra is vulnerable to the
potential difficulties associated with the rapid increase in the complexity of
its business

.  Zebra
has grown rapidly over the last several years through domestic and
international growth and acquisitions. 
This growth has caused increased complexities in the business.  We believe our future success depends in part
on our ability to manage our rapid growth and increased complexities of our
business and the demands from increased responsibility on our management
personnel.  The following factors could
present difficulties to us:

·

Manufacturing an increased number of
products;

·

Increased administrative and
operational burden;

·

Maintaining and improving information
technology infrastructure to support growth;


·

Increased logistical problems common
to complex, expansive operations; and

·

Managing
increasing international operations.

If we do not manage these
potential difficulties successfully, our operating results could be adversely
affected.  In addition, we may have
difficulties managing associated increased costs, which could adversely affect
our operating margins.

Zebra sources some of its component parts from sole
source suppliers.

A disruption in the
supply of such component parts could have a material adverse effect on our
operations and financial results. In particular, a key microprocessor used in
Zebra products has been the subject of patent litigation against the
manufacturer. While Zebra expects the manufacturer to prevail, an adverse
result is such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s
financial results.

Infringement
by Zebra or Zebra suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra
at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time
consuming and costly.

Third parties may
claim that Zebra or Zebra suppliers violated their intellectual property
rights. To the extent of a violation of a third party’s patent or other
intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from operating its business
as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if
available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish its
objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly
litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are
successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new
technologies emerge, such as RFID, the intellectual property rights of parties
in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, products involving such
technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual
proprietary rights of third parties.

The
inability to protect intellectual property could harm Zebra’s reputation, and
its competitive position may be materially damaged.

Zebra’s intellectual
property is valuable and provides Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Copyrights,
patents, trade secrets and contracts are used to protect these proprietary
rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy
aspects of Zebra’s products or, without authorization, to obtain and use
information which Zebra regards as trade secrets.

Zebra may incur liabilities as a result of product
failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects

.

Zebra may be subject to
product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic
damage or personal injury, in the event our products present actual or apparent
design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur
not only in Zebra’s own designed products but also in components provided by
third party suppliers. A Zebra supplier has in the past provided us with
defective lithium-ion battery packs which were subject to a product recall.
Zebra generally has insurance protection against property damage and personal
injury liabilities and also seeks to limit such risk through product design,
manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual
indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the large and growing size of
Zebra’s installed printer base, a design or manufacturing defect involving this
large installed printer base could result in product recalls or customer
service costs that could have material adverse effects on Zebra’s financial
results.


The planned retirement of Zebra’s chief executive
officer could cause dislocations in management and changes in strategic
direction.

During the third quarter
of 2006, we announced that Edward L. Kaplan, Zebra’s co-founder, chairman and
chief executive officer, plans to retire as CEO following the recruitment of a
successor CEO. This current period of transition and future change in
leadership could result in changes in other senior and mid-level management
personnel. Such changes could have an adverse affect on Zebra’s business. In
addition, no assurances can be provided as to whether the successor CEO, who
has yet to be named, will seek to change Zebra’s strategies.

Zebra’s
equipment is subject to U.S. and foreign regulations that pertain to electrical
and electronic equipment, which may materially adversely affect Zebra’s
business.

These regulations influence the design, components or operation of such
products. New regulations and changes to current regulations are always
possible and, in some jurisdictions, regulations may be introduced with little
or no time to bring related products into compliance with these regulations.
Zebra’s failure to comply with these regulations may prevent Zebra from selling
our products in a certain country. In addition, these regulations may increase
our cost of supplying the products by forcing us to redesign existing products
or to use more expensive designs or components. In these cases, Zebra may
experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to supply customers with
products, or we may incur unexpected costs or operational complexities to bring
products into compliance. This could have an adverse effect on Zebra’s
revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase the
volatility of our financial results.

In January 2003, the European Union, (“EU”), issued two directives
relating to chemical substances in electronic products. The Waste Electrical
and Electronic Equipment Directive requires producers of electrical goods to
pay for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and
future covered products. EU governments were required to enact and implement
legislation that complies with this directive (such legislation together with
the directive, the “WEEE Legislation”), and certain producers are to be
financially responsible under the WEEE Legislation. The EU issued another
directive that requires electrical and electronic equipment placed on the EU
market after July 1, 2006, to be free of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent
chromium (above a threshold limit) and brominated flame retardants. EU
governments were required to enact and implement legislation that complies with
this directive (such legislation together with this directive, the “RoHS
Legislation”). We are currently in compliance; however, if we do not comply
with these directives, we may suffer a loss of revenue, be unable to sell in
certain markets and/or countries, be subject to penalties and enforced fees,
and/or suffer a competitive disadvantage. Also, complying with these directives
has presented additional complexities to manufacturing and operations which
could result in adverse results. We cannot assure you that the costs to comply
with these new laws, or with current and future environmental laws, will not
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, expenses and
financial condition.

Added risks are associated with our international
operations which may have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business.

Zebra has significant
overseas operations, notably in the U.K., Middle East and Africa, Latin America
and Asia-Pacific, including, in particular, an increasing presence in China,
which present added risks that may materially adversely affect the financial
results and condition of Zebra. These risks include the following:

·

Adverse changes in, or uncertainty
of, local business laws or practices;

·

Inadequately managing and overseeing
operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters;

·

The inability to hire and retain
appropriate employees in highly competitive job markets; and

·

The
failure to implement and maintain adequate internal controls relating to these
operations.

If we are not able to
effectively manage these risks, they may harm our business and the trading
price of our common stock.

Zebra
sells a significant portion of its products internationally and purchases
important components from foreign suppliers. These circumstances create a
number of risks.

Zebra sells a significant
amount of its products to customers outside the United States. Shipments to
international customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion
of net sales. Risks associated with sales and purchases outside the United
States include:

·

Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, or increase
costs of purchasing, in foreign countries.

·

Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade
barriers or capital flow restrictions.

·

Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products,
or put our foreign assets at risk.

·

Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or
eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets.

·

Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain
countries may limit recourse against infringing products or cause Zebra to
refrain from selling in certain geographic territories.

·

Staffing and managing international operations may be
unusually difficult.


Economic
factors, which are outside Zebra’s control, could lead to deterioration in the
quality of Zebra’s accounts receivables.

Zebra sells its products
to customers in the United States and several other countries around the world.
Sales are typically made on unsecured credit terms, which are generally
consistent with the prevailing business practices in a given country. A
deterioration of economic or political conditions in a country could impair
Zebra’s ability to collect on receivables in the affected country.

Zebra
depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract
and retain other key personnel.

Future success of Zebra
is substantially dependent on the continued service and continuing
contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the
service of any executive officer or other key employees could adversely affect
business. Zebra maintains minimal key man life insurance policies on its
co-founders.

The ability to attract,
retain and motivate highly skilled employees is important to Zebra’s long-term
success. Competition for personnel in Zebra’s industry is intense, and Zebra
may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other
highly qualified employees in the future.

Terrorist
attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect
Zebra’s stock price, operations, and profitability.

The terrorist attacks
that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001 caused major
instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. Possible further acts of
terrorism and current and future war risks could have a similar impact. The
United States continues to take military action against terrorism and is
currently engaged in a costly occupation of Iraq. These events may lead to
additional armed hostilities or to further acts of terrorism and civil
disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to
economic instability. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further
instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through
reduced demand, negatively affect Zebra’s facilities and operations or those of
its customers or suppliers.

Taxing
authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves.

Zebra is subject to
ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record
incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In
addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected
results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or
decrease to Zebra’s effective tax rate.

Item 1B.         Unresolved
Staff Comments

Not applicable.


Item 2.            Properties

Zebra’s corporate
headquarters are located in Vernon Hills, Illinois, a northern suburb of
Chicago. Zebra conducts its operations from a custom-designed facility at this
location, which provides approximately 225,000 square feet of space.
Approximately 113,000 square feet have been allocated to office and laboratory
functions and 112,000 square feet to manufacturing and warehousing. This
facility was constructed in 1989 and expanded in 1993, 1995, 1996 and 1999. It
is owned and leased to Zebra under a lease terminating on June 30, 2014, by
Unique Building Corporation, a corporation owned by Edward Kaplan and Gerhard
Cless, both executive officers and directors of Zebra.

Zebra’s principal
facilities as of December 31, 2006, are listed below:

Square Footage

Location

Manufacturing,

Production &

Warehousing

Administrative,

Research & Sales

Total

Lease Expires

Vernon Hills,
  Illinois, USA

111,676

113,429

225,105

June 2014

Vernon Hills,
  Illinois, USA

¾

34,000

34,000

February 2008

Camarillo, California, USA

97,921

72,156

170,077

Owned by Zebra

Warwick, Rhode
  Island, USA

24,516

75,324

99,840

April 2009

Greenville, Wisconsin, USA

45,000

5,000

50,000

February 2018

Otay Mesa, California, USA

25,100

4,900

30,000

February 2008

McAllen, Texas,
  USA

15,500

2,500

18,000

September 2011

Heerenveen, The
  Netherlands

48,427

46,145

94,572

March 2025

High Wycombe, UK

¾

24,700

24,700

October 2018

Preston, UK

30,450

8,600

39,050

Owned by Zebra

Total

398,590

386,754

785,344

Zebra leases various
other facilities around the world, which are dedicated to administrative,
research and sales functions. The amounts related to these leases, solely or in
aggregate, are not material to the consolidated financial statements.


Item 3.            Legal
Proceedings

See Note 16 in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.

Item 4.            Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.


PART II

Item 5.            Market
for Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
of Equity Securities

Stock Information: Price Range
and Common Stock

Our Class A Common Stock
is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol ZBRA. The following table
shows the high and low trade prices for each fiscal quarter in 2006 and 2005,
as reported by the NASDAQ Stock Market.


High

Low


High

Low

First Quarter

$

47.97

$

42.16

First
  Quarter

$

56.90

$

44.53

Second Quarter

45.39

32.41

Second
  Quarter

48.67

39.60

Third Quarter

36.60

29.23

Third
  Quarter

47.58

34.88

Fourth Quarter

37.74

33.98

Fourth Quarter

46.66

36.65

Source: The NASDAQ Stock Market

At February 26, 2007, the
last reported price for the Class A Common Stock was $41.79 per share, and
there were 372 registered stockholders of record for the Company’s Class A
Common Stock. In addition, we had approximately 17,000 stockholders who owned
Zebra stock in street name.

Dividend Policy

Since our initial public
offering in 1991, we have not declared any cash dividends or distributions on
our capital stock. Zebra currently intends to retain its earnings to finance
future growth and therefore does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in
the foreseeable future.

Treasury Shares

During 2006, Zebra
purchased 2,080,911 shares of common stock. The repurchase was under a purchase
authorization approved by the Board of Directors. In September 2005, the Board
authorized the purchase of up to 2,500,000 shares of common stock. The purchase
price is at management’s discretion, and there is no expiration on the
authorization. During 2006, Zebra purchased shares as follows:

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Period

Total

number of

shares

purchased

Average

price paid

per share

Total number of

shares purchased

as part of

publicly

announced

program

Maximum

number of

shares that may

yet be

purchased

under the

program

September 2006
  (August 27 — September 30)

116,800

$

34.83

116,800

October 2006
  (October 1 — October 28)

329,111

36.09

329,111

November 2006
  (October 29 — November 25)

¾

¾

¾

December 2006
  (November 26 — December 31)

1,635,000

34.85

1,635,000

Total

2,080,911

$

35.04

2,080,911

419,089

See Item 12 for
information related to Zebra’s equity compensation plans.


STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH

The graph depicted below compares the cumulative
annual change since December 31, 2001, of the total stockholder return on Zebra
Technologies Corporation Class A Common Stock with the cumulative total return
on the following published indices: (i) the Hemscott Industry Group 815
(Computer Peripherals) Index(1) and (ii) the NASDAQ Composite Market Index,
during the same period.  This comparison
assumes that $100 was invested in each of the Company’s Class A Common Stock,
the stocks comprising the Hemscott Industry Group 815 Index, and the stocks
comprising the NASDAQ Composite Market Index, on December 31, 2001, and assumes
that all dividends were reinvested at the end of the month in which they were
paid.

(1).     Hemscott, Inc. (formerly CoreData LLC and
Media General Financial Services) publishes the Hemscott Industry Group 815
(Computer Peripherals) Index. The index is comprised of the following
companies: Acme Packet Inc., Astro-Med Inc., AU Optronics Corp. ADS, Avocent
Corp., Creative Technology Ltd., Electronics For Imaging, Emulex Corp., Evand
& Sutherland Computer Corp., Foundry Networks Inc., Global Imaging Systems
Inc., Hauppage Digital Inc., iCAD Inc., Immersion Corp., InFocus Corp.,
Intermec Inc., Interphase Corp., Key Tronic Corp., Lantronix Inc., Lexmark
International Inc., Logitech International SA ADR, Media Sciences International
Inc., Mercury Computer Systems Inc., MTS Medication Technologies Inc., Nice
Systems Ltd. ADR, O2Micro International Ltd., Opnet Technologies Inc., Planar
Systems Inc., Printronix Inc., Radcom Ltd., RadiSys Corp., Rimage Corp., SBE
Inc., SCM Microsystems Inc., Secure Computing Corp., Stratasys Inc., Symbol
Technologies Inc., Top Image Systems Ltd., Transact Technologies Inc.,
Universal Display Corp., Video Display Corp., Wave Systems Corp. Cl. A, and
Zebra Technologies Corporation.

Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return

of Zebra Technologies Corporation, the Hemscott
  Industry Group Index

and the NASDAQ Composite Market Index







Zebra
  Technologies Corporation

$

100.00

$

103.22

$

179.26

$

227.89

$

173.51

$

140.87

Hemscott
  Industry Group Index

100.00

74.88

128.77

131.65

113.78

124.42

NASDAQ Composite Market
  Index

100.00

69.75

104.88

113.70

116.19

128.12


Item 6.            Selected
Consolidated Financial Data

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS DATA

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

Year Ended December 31,


(1)


(1)


(1)


(1)


Net sales

$

759,524

$

702,271

$

663,054

$

536,397

$

475,611

Cost of sales

401,104

348,851

320,951

264,564

245,929

Gross profit

358,420

353,420

342,103

271,833

229,682

Total operating
  expenses

277,991

(2)

207,392

175,494

150,882

135,806

Operating income

80,429

146,028

166,609

120,951

93,876

Income before
  income taxes and cumulative effect of
  accounting change

101,642

160,282

176,084

127,725

102,981

Income before
  cumulative effect of accounting change

69,627

106,184

115,141

86,357

66,464

Cumulative
  effect of accounting change

1,319

(3)

¾

¾

¾

¾

Net income

$

70,946

$

106,184

$

115,141

$

86,357

$

66,464

Earnings per
  share before cumulative effect of
  accounting change

Basic

$

0.99

$

1.49

$

1.61

$

1.22

(4)

$

0.95

(4)

Diluted

$

0.98

$

1.47

$

1.59

$

1.21

(4)

$

0.95

(4)

Earnings per
  share

Basic

$

1.01

$

1.49

$

1.61

$

1.22

(4)

$

0.95

(4)

Diluted

$

1.00

$

1.47

$

1.59

$

1.21

(4)

$

0.95

(4)

Weighted average
  shares outstanding

Basic

70,516

71,364

71,556

70,647

(4)

69,678

(4)

Diluted

70,956

72,000

72,398

71,495

(4)

70,305

(4)

CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEET DATA

(In thousands)

December 31,






Cash and cash
  equivalents and investments and marketable securities (current and long-term)

$

559,189

$

544,239

$

557,993

$

447,848

$

348,577

Working capital

404,836

680,554

665,062

535,816

427,676

Total assets

963,142

918,415

868,044

706,530

578,701

Long-term
  obligations (5)

9,969

7,709

4,011

2,853

1,613

Stockholders’ equity

877,681

857,972

803,893

657,557

539,768

(1)

Amounts have been
restated to reflect the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based
Payment

, using the modified retrospective approach. See Note 2 in
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.

(2)

Includes litigation
settlement of $53,392,000 and insurance receivable reserve of $12,543,000. See
Note 16 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Form 10-K for further discussion of the settlement.

(3)

Relates to the
estimation of forfeitures on prior year compensation expense outstanding at the
adoption date of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment

.
See Note 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in
this Form 10-K.

(4)

Restated for 3-for-2
stock splits in 2003 and 2004 that were paid in the form of 50% stock
dividends.

(5)

Long-term obligations
include deferred compensation and unearned revenue. See Note 18 in the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for further
discussion of the Deferred Compensation Plan.


Item 7.            Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations

Sales for the
fourth quarter of 2006 were up a strong 17.1% from the prior year, reaching a
record of $209,903,000. Particularly encouraging was the strong growth in North
America, which had its best performance in two years, up 15.8% from the prior
year comparable period. Lower gross margins were the result of manufacturing
variances caused partially by the lingering effects the RoHS Legislation, which
mandated that we convert our products to comply with the RoHS Legislation by
its mid-2006 deadline (the “RoHS Conversion”). Variances also resulted from
three facility moves during the quarter, as we opened a new supplies converting
operation in Texas and moved into larger converting facilities in Wisconsin and
California; all of which increased manufacturing capacity. Higher operating
expenses resulting from the Swecoin acquisition, consulting expenses, the costs
of radio certifications, advertising costs, and increases to bad debt reserves
reduced operating margins. Fourth quarter operating expenses also include a
100% reserve for an insurance receivable.

Sales for the full year increased by 8.2% over 2005,
with North American growth holding in the mid single digits until the fourth
quarter. International sales, particularly in Europe, were stronger and
generally more consistent throughout most of the year. Gross margin was down
from 2005 by 3.1 points with first half results being affected by mix and
pricing and second half by manufacturing variances which were, in part, the
result of the RoHS Conversion previously mentioned. The company continued to
add sales and marketing staff to support its sales growth with a resulting
increase in operating expenses. In addition, we settled a large patent
litigation in the third quarter and reserved for an insurance receivable in the
fourth quarter. The combined impact of these two events was approximately
$65,935,000 of expense.

Results
of Operations: Fourth Quarter of 2006 versus Fourth Quarter of 2005, Year ended
December 31, 2006 versus Year ended December 31, 2005

Sales

Sales by product
category, percent change, and percent of total sales for the three months and
year ended December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, were (in thousands, except
percentages):

Three Months Ended December 31,

Percent

Percent of

Percent of

Product Category



Change

Total Sales - 2006

Total Sales - 2005

Hardware

$

163,081

$

137,803

18.3

77.7

76.9

Supplies

38,578

33,581

14.9

18.4

18.7

Service and
  software

6,954

6,202

12.1

3.3

3.5

Shipping and
  handling

1,610


93.3

0.8

0.4

Cash flow
  hedging activities

(320

)


NM

(0.2

)

0.5

Total sales

$

209,903

$

179,294

17.1

100.0

100.0

Year Ended December 31,

Percent

Percent of

Percent of

Product Category



Change

Total Sales - 2006

Total Sales - 2005

Hardware

$

578,002

$

540,679

6.9

76.1

77.0

Supplies

150,709

129,183

16.7

19.8

18.4

Service and
  software

25,664

25,217

1.8

3.4

3.6

Shipping and
  handling

6,022

5,575

8.0

0.8

0.8

Cash flow
  hedging activities

(873

)

1,617

NM

(0.1

)

0.2

Total sales

$

759,524

$

702,271

8.2

100.0

100.0


Sales to customers
by geographic region, percent changes and percent of total sales for the three
months and year ended December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, were (in
thousands, except percentages):

Three Months Ended December 31,

Percent

Percent of

Percent of

Geographic Region



Change

Total Sales - 2006

Total Sales - 2005

Europe, Middle
  East and Africa

$

73,109

$

59,942

22.0

34.8

33.4

Latin America

13,854

12,923

7.2

6.6

7.2

Asia-Pacific

18,054

15,867

13.8

8.6

8.8

Total International

105,017

88,732

18.4

50.0

49.4

North America

104,886

90,562

15.8

50.0

50.6

Total sales

$

209,903

$

179,294

17.1

100.0

100.0

Year Ended December 31,

Percent

Percent of

Percent of

Geographic Region



Change

Total Sales - 2006

Total Sales - 2005

Europe, Middle
  East and Africa

$

260,125

$

230,365

12.9

34.2

32.8

Latin America

53,619

46,878

14.4

7.1

6.7

Asia-Pacific

65,960

62,974

4.7

8.7

9.0

Total International

379,704

340,217

11.6

50.0

48.5

North America

379,820

362,054

4.9

50.0

51.5

Total sales

$

759,524

$

702,271

8.2

100.0

100.0

Ongoing strength in
international territories, with notable growth in Latin America of 14.4% for
2006 and Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) of 12.9% for the full year and
22% for the fourth quarter, and a material improvement in North American sales
in the fourth quarter helped drive overall sales growth in 2006. For 2006,
sales growth benefited from a 13.6% unit volume increase spread broadly across
our printer product lines, offset by a decline in average unit prices. Sales
growth also benefited from strong growth in supplies sales, resulting from
recently implemented sales and marketing programs and additional label
manufacturing capacity. Favorable foreign exchange movements added 3.1
percentage points to consolidated growth and 9.3 percentage points to growth in
EMEA for the fourth quarter.

Zebra is required to
comply with two new European Union (EU) directives that pertain to electrical
and electronic equipment. The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment
Directive requires producers of electrical goods to pay for specified
collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered
products. Another directive (i.e., the RoHS Legislation) requires electrical
and electronic equipment placed in the EU market after July 1, 2006, to be free
of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium (above a threshold limit) and
brominated flame retardants. Costs to comply with these new laws affected
results during 2006 and may continue to impact future periods.

New printer products
(defined as printers released within 18 months prior to the end of the
applicable fiscal period) as a percent of total printer product sales were as
follows:

December 31,



Three months
  ended

12.1

7.2

Year ended

12.5

10.7

New product releases
planned for upcoming quarters is expected by management to increase these
percentages in future periods.

Zebra’s international sales are denominated in
multiple currencies, primarily the dollar, pound and euro, which subjects our
reported sales to fluctuations based on changes in currency rates. We hedge a
portion of anticipated euro-denominated sales to protect Zebra against exchange
rate movements. Inclusive of all hedging activities, the impact of foreign
exchange movements on reported sales during the fourth quarter was a gain of
$5,556,000. The full year impact was a gain of $3,606,000. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this report for a more detailed discussion of the above
hedging program.


Printer unit volumes and
average selling price information is summarized below:

Three Months Ended December 31,

Percent

Year Ended December 31,

Percent



Change



Change

Total printers
  shipped

226,625

192,583

17.7

818,413

720,306

13.6

Average selling price
  ofprinters shipped

$


$


(1.5

)

$


$


(5.5

)

For 2006, with the
exception of card printers, unit volumes increased in all printer product
lines, with notable strength in mobile, desktop and high-end printers. For the
full year, lower average selling prices across the full line of printers in
addition to a mix shift toward lower priced products resulted in a 5.5%
decrease in the average selling price of printers shipped.

Gross Profit

Gross profit information
is summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

December 31,

Percent

Percent of

Percent of



Change

Total Sales—2006

Total Sales—2005

Three months
  ended

$

98,410

$

89,612

9.8

46.9

50.0

Year ended

358,420

353,420

1.4

47.2

50.3

The
decline in gross profit margin for the fourth quarter was due to the following:

·

Increases to excess inventory and cost change reserves

·

Less favorable purchase price variances,

·

Cycle count adjustments,

·

Overhead spending and labor variances related to facility expansion in
the supplies organization, and

·

Higher cost components required for RoHS
Legislation compliance

Full year gross profit
was also affected by:

·

Pricing and negative product mix in
the first and second quarters and

·

Negative
foreign exchange comparisons in the first quarter.

Selling and Marketing Expenses

Selling and marketing
expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

December 31,

Percent

Percent of

Percent of



Change

Total Sales—2006

Total Sales—2005

Three months
  ended

$

27,702

$

25,725

7.7

13.2

14.3

Year ended

96,788

91,630

5.6

12.7

13.0

Higher selling and
marketing expenses reflect ongoing investments in demand-generating activities
to build brand equity in our core product lines as well as in the emerging area
of radio frequency identification (RFID). During the fourth quarter of 2006,
selling and marketing expenses increased due to higher payroll costs of
$1,457,000 from increased staffing partially as a result of the Swecoin
acquisition. Trade show expenses also increased by $324,000. For the full year,
the payroll costs increased $4,587,000 and trade show expenses increased
$690,000. In addition to increases in the items mentioned above, outside
commissions, advertising and building expenses increased, and market
development costs and consulting costs decreased during 2006. The increased
staffing was primarily focused on increasing our presence in targeted
geographical territories to support growth in those regions, building sales and
marketing teams to deliver vertical market applications, and strengthening
strategic alliances with complementary companies.


Research and Development Costs

The development of new
products and enhancement of existing products are important to Zebra’s business
and growth prospects. To maintain and build our product pipeline, we made
investments in research and development, summarized below (in thousands, except
percentages):

December 31,

Percent

Percent of

Percent of



Change

Total Sales—2006

Total Sales—2005

Three months
  ended

$

12,768

$

12,103

5.5

6.1

6.8

Year ended

48,959

47,359

3.4

6.4

6.7

Quarterly product
development expenses fluctuate widely depending on the status of ongoing
projects. We are committed to a long-term strategy of significant investment in
product development. For the fourth quarter of 2006, increases in payroll costs
of $896,000 and professional services of $716,000 were offset by a decrease in
project expenses of $1,007,000. For the full year, payroll costs increased
$4,533,000, professional services increased $230,000 and project expenses
decreased $3,179,000. Included in the 2005 year-to date project expenses are
write-offs of tooling and other materials related to product development in the
amount of $2,726,000.

During 2005, we incurred
research and development costs to re-engineer our products to make them
compliant with new environmental laws that went into effect in 2006. These laws
include eliminating the lead content in our products. These environmental
compliance costs totaled $1,049,000 for the fourth quarter of 2005 and
$2,882,000 for the full year. During 2006, we did not incur any significant
research and development costs related to environmental compliance.

General and Administrative Expenses

General and
administrative expenses are summarized in the table below (in thousands, except
percentages):

December 31,

Percent

Percent of

Percent of



Change

Total Sales—2006

Total Sales—2005

Three months
  ended

$

18,284

$

14,816

23.4

8.7

8.3

Year ended

62,656

64,050

(2.2

)

8.2

9.1

For the fourth
quarter of 2006, general and administrative expenses increased due to higher
payroll costs of $1,435,000, information systems expenses of $989,000, bad debt
expenses of $650,000 and professional services and recruiting of $964,000.
These increases were partially offset by lower legal expenses of $1,094,000.
The decrease in legal expense was primarily related to the resolution of the litigation
with Paxar as described in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the full year of 2006, payroll costs increased $2,350,000, information
systems expense increased $1,718,000, bad debt expense increased $944,000, and
professional services and recruiting increased $725,000. The decrease in legal
expenses was $7,373,000.

Settlement and Licensing
Agreement with Paxar Americas, Inc.

During the third
quarter of 2006, Zebra paid $63,750,000 to settle all issues surrounding the
litigation with Paxar Americas, Inc. Of this amount, $53,392,000 was included
as operating expense. The remaining $10,358,000 was capitalized as an
intangible asset related to future use of these patents and will be amortized
over 4 to 7 years resulting in an incremental charge of $456,000 per quarter.
For further information, see Notes 12 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Insurance
receivable reserve

During 2006, a Zebra reseller filed for bankruptcy protection in
Austria. At the time of the filing, the reseller owed various Zebra
subsidiaries a total of $12,065,000. The entire balance due to Zebra is
guaranteed by Condor Insurance, a Nevis-based insurance company through a
United Kingdom insurance broker. During June 2006, Zebra initiated a suit in the
U.K. courts to enforce the guarantee. However, during the fourth quarter, we
discovered that the insurance company’s financial position was such that it may
not be able to pay the judgment awarded to us. We have reviewed the situation
and determined that a loss is probable, and have, therefore, reserved 100% of
the balance due, which is $12,543,000 at December 31, 2006. However, we are
continuing to take legal action to collect the judgment against the insurance
company and reduce Zebra’s loss. If Zebra is able to recover some or all of the
loss, we will reverse the reserve and record a gain at that time.


Operating
Income

Operating income is
summarized in the following table (in thousands, except percentages):

December 31,

Percent

Percent of

Percent of



Change

Total Sales—2006

Total Sales—2005

Three months ended

$

25,719

$

36,099

(28.8

)

12.3

20.1

Year ended

80,429

146,028

(44.9

)

10.6

20.8

Non-operating Income and Expenses

Zebra’s non-operating
income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands):

Three Months Ended

December 31,

Year Ended December 31,





Investment income

$

6,980

$

3,814

$

23,182

$

13,417

Interest expense

(16

)

(8

)

(252

)

(79

)

Foreign exchange gains
  (losses)

(822

)


(635

)

1,286

Other, net

(170

)

(74

)

(1,082

)

(370

)

Total other income
  (expense)

$

5,972

$

3,819

$

21,213

$

14,254

Rate of
  Return Analysis:

Average cash and
  marketable securities balances

$

553,406

$

536,981

$

551,714

$

551,116

Annualized rate of return

5.0

%

2.8

%

4.2

%

2.4

%

Income Taxes

The effective
income tax rate for the fourth quarter was 32.3% compared with 32.7% for the
same quarter last year. For the full year of 2006, the effective income tax
rate was 31.5% versus 33.8% for 2005. The decrease in the effective tax rate is
a result of the increased impact of permanent tax differences, including
tax-exempt interest income, on the effective income tax rate due to lower
taxable income from the Paxar settlement. In addition, we reduced tax reserves
in the amount of $1,189,000 related to the completion of various state tax
audits and 2005 state income tax returns.

Income before Cumulative Effect of
Accounting Change

Zebra’s income
(loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change is summarized below (in
thousands, except per share amounts):

Three Months Ended December 31,

Year Ended December 31,





Income before
  cumulative effect of accounting change

$

21,446

$

26,845

$

69,627

$

106,184

Diluted earnings per share before cumulative effect of accounting
  change

$

0.30

$

0.38

$

0.98

$

1.47

Cumulative Effect of Accounting
Change

During the first
quarter of 2006, Zebra adopted SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based
Payment,

using the modified retrospective approach. SFAS No. 123(R)
requires entities to estimate the number of forfeitures expected to occur and
record expense based upon the number of awards expected to vest. Prior to the
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), Zebra accounted for forfeitures as they occurred
as permitted under previous accounting standards. The requirement to estimate
forfeitures is classified as an accounting change under APB Opinion No. 20,

Accounting Changes

, which requires a one-time adjustment in
the period of adoption. The one-time adjustment (cumulative effect of
accounting change) related to the change in estimating forfeitures increased
income by $1,319,000, net of applicable taxes.


Net Income

Zebra’s net income
is summarized below (in thousands, except per share amounts):

Three Months Ended December 31,

Year Ended December 31,





Net income

$

21,446

$

26,845

$

70,946

$

106,184

Diluted earnings per
  share

$

0.30

$

0.38

$

1.00

$

1.47


Comparison
of Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004

Sales

Sales by product
category, related percent changes and percent of total sales for 2005 and 2004
were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,

Percent

Percent of

Percent of

Product Category



Change

Total Sales—2005

Total Sales—2004

Hardware

$

540,679

$

518,556

4.3

77.0

78.2

Supplies

129,183

116,877

10.5

18.4

17.6

Service and
  software

25,217

24,310

3.7

3.6

3.7

Shipping and
  handling

5,575

4,950

12.6

0.8

0.7

Cash flow
  hedging activities

1,617

(1,639

)

NM

0.2

(0.2

)

Total sales

$

702,271

$

663,054

5.9

100.0

100.0

Sales to customers
by geographic region, related percent changes, and percent of total sales for
2005 and 2004 were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,

Percent

Percent of

Percent of

Geographic Region



Change

Total Sales—2005

Total Sales—2004

Europe, Middle
  East and Africa

$

230,365

$

213,559

7.9

32.8

32.2

Latin America

46,878

38,119

23.0

6.7

5.7

Asia-Pacific

62,974

52,302

20.4

9.0

7.9

Total International

340,217

303,980

11.9

48.5

45.8

North America

362,054

359,074

0.8

51.5

54.2

Total sales

$

702,271

$

663,054

5.9

100.0

100.0

Sales growth for 2005 reflected the effect of
investments to expand our global presence and strengthen relationships with
value-added resellers and other distribution channels. The success of these
efforts was offset by significantly lower sales in North America to large
retail accounts, which purchased large quantities of primarily mobile printers
the year before, primarily in the preceding fourth quarter.

During 2005, we experienced
a decline in sales of new printer products as a result of technical problems
that delayed the introduction of various new products as well as the shifting
of some new product engineering resources to environmental compliance.

Printer unit volumes and
average selling price information is summarized below:

Year Ended December 31,

Percent



Change

Total printers
  shipped

720,306

667,461

7.9

Average selling price
  of printers shipped

$


$


(2.9

)

For all of 2005, with the
exception of mobile printers, unit volumes increased in nearly all product
lines, with notable strength in mid-range and desktop printers. In addition, a
product mix toward lower priced products resulted in a 2.9% decrease in the
average selling price of printers shipped.

Gross Profit

Gross profit information
is summarized below (in thousands except percentages)

Percent of

For the Year Ended

Gross Profit

Total Sales

December 31, 2005

$

353,420

50.3

December 31, 2004

342,103

51.6

Percent Change

3.3


Gross margin decreased
largely because of:

·

Lower average unit prices,

·

Increased warranty costs of $3,185,000 primarily related to the recall of
a now discontinued product,

·

Unfavorable exchange rate movements of $2,327,000 and

·

Higher distribution costs of $1,908,000,
which were related to the new distribution center in the Netherlands.

Selling and Marketing Expenses

Selling and marketing
expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

Selling and

Percent of

For the Year Ended

Marketing Expenses

Total Sales

December 31, 2005

$

91,630

13.0

December 31, 2004

79,111

11.9

Percent Change

15.8

Higher selling and
marketing expenses reflect ongoing investments in demand-generating activities
to build brand equity in our core product lines as well as in the emerging area
of radio frequency identification (RFID). Payroll costs increased $6,836,000
and advertising and market development funding increased $1,976,000. In
addition to increases in the items mentioned above, outside commissions,
offsite meeting and travel expenses increased during 2005. The increased
staffing was primarily focused on increasing our presence in targeted geographical
territories to support growth in those regions, building sales and marketing
teams to deliver vertical market applications, and strengthening strategic
alliances with complementary companies.

Research and Development Costs

Research and development
costs are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

Research and

Percent of

For the Year Ended

Development Costs

Total Sales

December 31, 2005

$

47,359

6.7

December 31, 2004

38,609

5.8

Percent Change

22.7

For 2005, research and
development expenses increased primarily due to increases in project expenses
of $5,277,000, payroll costs of $2,130,000, and professional services of
$744,000. Included in the project expenses increase are write-offs of tooling
and other materials related to product development in the amount of $2,726,000.
Also during 2005, we incurred research and development costs, which totaled of
$2,882,000, to re-engineer our products to make them compliant with new
environmental laws that went into effect in 2006.

General and Administrative Expenses

General and
administrative expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except
percentages):

General and

Percent of

For the Year Ended

Administrative Expenses

Total Sales

December 31, 2005

$

64,050

9.1

December 31, 2004

53,083

8.0

Percent Change

20.7

For 2005, general and
administrative expenses increased due to:

·

Higher information systems expenses
of $1,220,000,

·

Increased relocation expenses of
$572,000,

·

Higher payroll costs of $930,000, and

·

Higher
legal expenses of $6,628,000 primarily related to intellectual property expense
including Paxar litigation.


Operating
Income

Operating income is
summarized in the following table (in thousands, except percentages):

Percent of

For the Year Ended

Operating Income

Total Sales

December 31, 2005

$

146,028

20.8

December 31, 2004

166,609

25.1

Percent Change

(12.4

)

Non-operating Income and Expenses

Zebra’s non-operating
income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,



Investment
  income

$

13,417

$

10,628

Interest expense

(79

)

(44

)

Foreign exchange
  gains (losses)

1,286


Other, net

(370

)

(1,594

)

Total other income (expense)

$

14,254

$

9,475

Rate of Return Analysis:

Average cash and
  marketable securities balance

$

551,116

$

502,921

Annualized rate of
  return

2.4

%

2.1

%

Income Taxes

The effective
income tax rate for 2005 was 33.8% versus 34.6% in 2004. During 2005, we
reduced tax reserves as a result of favorable resolution of certain tax audits.
In addition, we took advantage of the deduction for qualified domestic
production activities included in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.

Net Income

Zebra’s net income
is summarized below (in thousands, except per share amounts):

Year Ended December 31,



Net income

$

106,184

$

115,141

Diluted earnings per
  share

$

1.47

$

1.59

Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management
prepared the consolidated financial statements of Zebra Technologies
Corporation under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. These principles require the use of estimates, judgments and
assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions we used
are reasonable, based upon the information available.

Our
estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts in our financial
statements. The following accounting policies comprise those that we believe
are the most critical in understanding and evaluating Zebra’s reported
financial results.


Revenue Recognition

Product revenue
is recognized once four criteria are met: (1) we have persuasive evidence that
an arrangement exits; (2) delivery has occurred and title has passed to the
customer, which happens at the point of shipment provided that no significant
obligations remain; (3) the price is fixed and determinable; and (4)
collectibility is reasonably assured. Other items that affect our revenue
recognition include:

Customer returns

Customers
have the right to return products that do not function properly within a
limited time after delivery. We monitor and track product returns and record a
provision for the estimated future returns based on historical experience and
any notification received of pending returns. Returns have historically been
within expectations and the provisions established, but Zebra cannot guarantee
that it will continue to experience return rates consistent with historical
patterns. Historically, our product returns have not been significant. However,
if a significant issue should arise, it could have a material impact on our
financial statements.

Growth Rebates

Some
of our channel program partners are offered incentive rebates based on the
attainment of specific growth targets related to products they purchase from us
over a quarter or year. These rebates are recorded as a reduction to revenue.
Each quarter, we estimate the amount of outstanding growth rebates and
establish a reserve for them based on shipment history. Historically, actual
growth rebates have been in line with our estimates.

Price Protection

Some of our
customers are offered price protection by Zebra as an incentive to carry
inventory of our product. These price protection plans provide that if we lower
prices, we will credit them for the price decrease on inventory they hold. We
estimate future payments under price protection programs quarterly and
establish a reserve, which is charged against revenue. Our customers typically
carry limited amounts of inventory, and Zebra infrequently lowers prices on
current products. As a result, the amounts paid under theses plans have been
minimal.

Software Revenue

We
sell three types of software and record revenue as follows:

·

Our printers contain

embedded firmware,

which is part of the hardware purchase. We consider the sale of this firmware
to be incidental to the sale of the printer and do not attribute any revenue to
it.

·

We sell a limited amount of

prepackaged,

or

off-the-shelf, software

for the creation of bar code labels using our printers. There is no
customization required to use this software, and we have no post-shipment
obligations on the software. Revenue is recognized at the time this prepackaged
software is shipped.

·

We sometimes provide

custom software

as part of a printer installation project. We bill custom software development
services separate from the related hardware. Revenue related to custom software
is recognized once the custom software development services have been completed
and accepted by the customer.

Shipping and Handling

We charge our customers for
shipping and handling services based upon our internal price list for these
items. The amounts billed to customers are recorded as revenue when the product
ships. Any costs incurred related to these services are included in cost of
sales.

From time to time, Zebra
will enter into sales transactions that include more than one product type.
This bundle of products might include printers, current or future supplies, and
services. When this type of transaction occurs, we allocate the purchase price
to each product type based on the fair value of the individual products.  The revenue for each individual product is
then recognized when the earning process for that product is fully met.

Investments and Marketable Securities

Investments and
marketable securities at December 31, 2006, consisted of U.S. government
securities (18.7%), state and municipal bonds (72.0%), corporate bonds (1.6%),
and partnership interests (7.7%). We classify our debt and marketable equity
securities in one of three categories: trading, available-for-sale or
held-to-maturity. Trading securities are bought and held principally for the
purpose of selling them in the near term. Held-to-maturity securities are those
debt securities that Zebra has the ability and intent to hold until maturity.
All securities not included in trading or held-to-maturity are classified as
available-for-sale except for partnership interests described below.

Trading and
available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value. Held-to-maturity
securities are recorded at amortized cost, adjusted for the amortization or
accretion of discounts or premiums. Unrealized holding gains and losses on
trading securities are included in earnings. Unrealized holding gains and
losses, net of the related tax effect, on available-for-sale securities are


excluded from earnings
and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until
realized. As of December 31, 2006, Zebra’s investments in marketable debt
securities are classified as available-for-sale. In addition, as of December
31, 2006, all of our investments in marketable debt securities with maturities
greater than one year are classified as long-term in the balance sheet due to
our ability to hold them until maturity.

All investments in
marketable securities except the partnership interests are classified as
available-for-sale securities.  We
account for the partnership interests using the cost method until our ownership
percentage reaches 5% of the total partnership portfolio value. At that time,
we begin using the equity method to account for the partnership. During 2006,
we reached the 5% threshold on one of our partnership interests.

Accounts Receivable

We
have standardized credit granting and review policies and procedures for all
customer accounts, including:

·

Credit reviews of all new customer accounts,

·

Ongoing credit evaluations of current customers,

·

Credit limits and payment terms based on available credit
information,

·

Adjustments to credit limits based upon payment history and the
customer’s current credit worthiness, and

·

An active collection effort by regional credit functions,
reporting directly to the corporate financial officers.

We reserve for estimated
credit losses based upon historical experience and specific customer collection
issues. Over the last three years, accounts and notes receivable reserves
varied from 0.6% to 2.8% of total accounts receivable. Accounts receivable
reserves as of December 31, 2006, were $3,549,000, or 2.8% of the balance due.
Included in the accounts receivable reserve is $2,307,000 related to the
reseller noted in the following paragraph. In addition, other assets include an
additional reserve of $10,236,000 related to this reseller. We feel this
reserve level is appropriate considering the quality of the portfolio as of
December 31, 2006. While credit losses have historically been within
expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that our
credit loss experience will continue to be consistent with historical
experience.

During 2006, a Zebra reseller filed for bankruptcy protection in
Austria. At the time of the filing, the reseller owed various Zebra
subsidiaries a total of $12,065,000. The entire balance due to Zebra is
guaranteed by Condor Insurance, a Nevis insurance company through a United
Kingdom insurance broker. During June 2006, Zebra initiated a suit in the U.K.
courts to enforce the guarantee. However, during the fourth quarter, we
discovered that the insurance company’s financial position was such that it may
not be able to pay the judgment awarded to us. We have reviewed the situation
and determined that a loss is probable, and have, therefore, reserved 100% of
the balance due, which is now $12,543,000. However, we are continuing to take
legal action to collect the judgment against the insurance company and reduce
Zebra’s loss. If Zebra is able to recover some or all of the loss, we will
reverse the reserve and record a gain at that time.

Inventories

We value our
inventories at the lower of the actual cost to purchase or manufacture using
the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, or the current estimated market value.
We review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision for excess and
obsolete inventory based on forecasts of product demand and production
requirements for the subsequent twelve months.

Over the last three years, our reserves for excess and obsolete
inventories have ranged from 10.0% to 12.8% of gross inventory. As of December
31, 2006, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories were $9,866,000, or
12.1% of gross inventory. We feel this reserve level is appropriate considering
the quantities and quality of the inventories as of December 31, 2006.

At the end of
December, inventory levels are high in comparison to historical balances due to
RoHs Conversion issues and other operational issues. Zebra believes that the
inventory balances need to be reduced significantly and is implementing plans
to do so within the next year. An
insufficient reduction in these inventory balances could result in increased
inventory obsolescence expenses.

Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill

We test the impairment of goodwill each year or
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value
may not be recoverable. We completed our last assessment during June 2006. At
that time, no adjustment to goodwill was necessary due to impairment.

We evaluate the impairment
of identifiable intangibles and other long-lived assets whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable.


Factors considered that may
trigger an impairment review consist of:

·

Significant underperformance
relative to expected historical or projected future operating results,

·

Significant changes in the
manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business,

·

Significant negative industry
or economic trends,

·

Significant decline in Zebra’s
stock price for a sustained period, and

·

Significant decline in market capitalization
relative to net book value.

If we believe that one or
more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred, we measure impairment
based on projected discounted cash flows using a discount rate that
incorporates the risk inherent in the cash flows. Net intangible assets,
long-lived assets and goodwill amounted to $162,170,000 as of December 31,
2006.

Contingencies

We record estimated
liabilities related to contingencies based on our estimates of the probable
outcomes. Quarterly, we assess the potential liability related to pending
litigation, tax audits and other contingencies and confirm or revise estimates
and reserves as appropriate.

For a discussion
of all current litigation matters, see Note 16 in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K.

Stock-Based Compensation

As
of December 31, 2006, Zebra had two stock-based compensation

plans available for future grants. Prior to
January 1, 2006, we accounted for these plans using the intrinsic value method
required by the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,

and related Interpretations, as permitted
by SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation.

Accordingly, we recognized no compensation cost as all
options granted under these plans had grant prices equal to the market value of
the underlying common stock on the date of grant.

Effective
January 1, 2006, Zebra adopted SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment,

utilizing the modified retrospective
approach, which requires the prior period financial statements to be restated
to recognize compensation costs in the amounts previously reporting in the pro
forma footnote disclosures. See Notes 2 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in the Form 10-K for further information on the adoption
and impact of SFAS No. 123(R).

Expectations

During our
quarterly conference call on February 14, 2007, we provided net sales and
earnings guidance for the first quarter of 2007 as follows (amounts in
thousands, except per share data):

First Quarter 2007

Net sales

$

195,000 to
  $205,000

Gross profit
  margins

46.0% to 47.0%

Operating
  expenses

$

60,000 to
  $62,000

Diluted earnings per
  share

$

0.33 to $0.37

The effective tax rate is
expected to be 34.5% of income before income taxes for the first quarter of
2007.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

During 2006, Zebra
settled the outstanding litigation with Paxar Americas, Inc., with a payment of
$63,750,000. We also repurchased a total of 2,080,911 shares of our own stock
for $72,925,000 during the year. Cash, cash equivalents, investments and marketable
securities balances as of December 31, 2006 were $559,189,000, compared with
$544,239,000 at December 31, 2005. Other factors affecting cash and investment
balances during 2006 include (note that changes discussed below include the
impact of foreign currency):

·

Operations
provided a net cash increase of $88,252,000 primarily from net income, which
includes $53,392,000 of pre-tax expense related to the Paxar settlement and an
insurance receivable reserve of $12,543,000.

·

Deferred tax
assets increased $6,737,000, primarily due to deferred taxes on compensation
costs.

·

Accounts
receivable increased $4,292,000 because of higher sales offset by aggressive
collection efforts. Days sales outstanding decreased to 53.3 at the end of 2006
from 56.8 at the end of 2005.

·

Inventories
increased $13,430,000. Compared to the same period a year ago, inventory turns
decreased to 5.5 from 5.6.


·

Accrued expenses
increased by $8,559,000 for bonus, warranty and recycling accruals in addition
to other transactions settled by the end of the year for which payment had not
yet been made.

·

Taxes payable
increased $2,586,000 due to the timing of tax payments made in 2006.

·

Purchases of
property and equipment totaled $19,197,000.

·

Acquisition of
assets of Swecoin AB totaled $2,681,000.

·

Intangibles
increased $18,091,000 due to payments for licenses to use patents, including
$10,358,000 of Paxar intangibles.

·

Net sales of
investments totaled $21,443,000.

·

Purchases of
treasury shares totaled $68,221,000. Zebra made open market repurchases of our
shares under an authorization of the Board of Directors dated October 4, 2005.
An additional 135,000 of shares for $4,704,000 were repurchased as of
12/31/2006, but the cash had not yet been transferred.

·

Stock
option exercises and purchases under the stock purchase plan contributed
$10,402,000.

On January 25,
2007, Zebra purchased WhereNet Corp., for $126,000,000 in cash from Zebra’s
working capital.

Contractual
Obligations

Zebra’s
contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006 were:

Payments due by period

Total

Less than 1 year

1-3 years

3-5 years

More than 5 years

Operating lease
  obligations

$

44,569

$

6,163

$

9,872

$

8,701

$

19,833

Purchase
  obligations

54,938

54,938

¾

¾

¾

Total

$

99,507

$

61,101

$

9,872

$

8,701

$

19,833

Purchase
obligations are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet
operational requirements, primarily raw materials.

Management
believes that existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are
sufficient to finance anticipated capital requirements. It is our intention to
actively pursue opportunities to acquire other businesses.

Recently Issued
Accounting Pronouncements

In June 2006, the FASB
issued Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 06-3 (EITF 06-3),

How Sales Taxes Collected from
Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the
Income Statement (That Is, Gross Versus Net Presentation),

which discusses taxes imposed on, and imposed
concurrent with, a specific revenue-producing transaction between a seller and
its customer. It requires entities to disclose, if significant, on an interim
and annual basis for all periods presented: (a) the accounting policy elected
for these taxes and (b) the amounts of the taxes reflected gross (as revenue)
in the income statement. This Issue will become effective for Zebra during the
first quarter of 2007. We do not expect this Interpretation to have a material
impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

In
June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,

which
prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial
statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be
taken in a tax return. This Interpretation also provides guidance on
de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim
periods, disclosure, and transition. This Interpretation will become effective
for Zebra during the first quarter of 2007. The impact, if any, of this
Interpretation on our financial condition or results of operations has not yet
been determined.

In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,

Fair Value
Measurements

, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands
disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement applies under other
accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. It
does not require any new fair value measurements. This Statement will become
effective for Zebra during the first quarter of 2007. We do not expect it to
have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.


Item 7A.         Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

Zebra is exposed to the
impact of changes in interest rates because of our large investment portfolio.
As stated in our written investment policy, the investment portfolio is viewed
as a strategic resource that will be managed to achieve above market rates of
return in exchange for accepting a prudent amount of incremental risk, which
includes the risk of interest rate movements. Risk tolerance is constrained by
an overriding objective to preserve capital across each quarterly reporting
cycle.

Zebra mitigates interest
rate risk with an investment policy that requires the use of outside
professional investment managers, investment liquidity, and broad
diversification across investment strategies, and which limits the types of
investments that may be made. Moreover, the policy requires due diligence of
each investment manager both before employment and on an ongoing basis.

The following table sets
forth the impact of a one-percentage point movement in interest rates on the
value of Zebra’s investment portfolio (in thousands, except per share data).

As of December 31,

Interest rate sensitive instruments



+1 percentage point
  movement

Effect on Pretax
  Income

$

(7,140

)

$

(6,119

)

Effect on
  Diluted EPS (after tax)

$

(0.07

)

$

(0.06

)

-1 percentage point
  movement

Effect on Pretax
  Income

$

7,140

$

6,119

Effect on Diluted EPS
  (after tax)

$

0.07

$

0.06

Because these securities are classified as
available-for-sale under SFAS No. 115,

Accounting
for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,

the impact of
a one-percentage point movement in interest rates occurs over an extended
period of time as investments are sold and the funds are subsequently
reinvested.

Foreign Exchange Risk

We conduct business in
approximately 100 countries throughout the world and, therefore, are exposed to
risk based on movements in foreign exchange rates. We generally invoice
customers in their local currency and have a resulting foreign currency
denominated revenue transaction and accounts receivable. We also purchase
certain raw materials and other items in foreign currencies.  We manage these risks using derivative
financial instruments. See Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this form 10-K for further discussions of hedging
activities.

The following table sets
forth the impact of a ten percent movement in the dollar/pound and dollar/euro
rates measured as if Zebra did

not

engage in the selective hedging
practices described above and in Note 15. It is based on the dollar/euro and
dollar/pound exchange rates and euro and pound denominated assets and
liabilities (in thousands, except per share data).

As of December 31,

Foreign exchange



Dollar/pound

Effect on Pretax
  Income

$


$


Effect on
  Diluted EPS (after tax)

$

0.00

$

0.00

Dollar/euro

Effect on Pretax
  Income

$

2,240

$

2,594

Effect on
  Diluted EPS (after tax)

$

0.02

$

0.02

Euro/pound

Effect on Pretax
  Income

$

2,775

$

2,335

Effect on Diluted EPS
  (after tax)

$

0.03

$

0.02


Equity Price Risk

Zebra currently employs
four investment managers, two of which manage portfolios of investment funds
(i.e., fund of funds). These investment funds use a variety of investment
strategies, some of which involve the use of equity securities. By policy,
management limits the amount of Zebra’s investments in alternative investment
strategies to a maximum of 15% of the total investment portfolio, with no
single investment exceeding $15,000,000.

Zebra utilizes a
Value-at-Risk (VaR) model to determine the maximum potential one-day loss in
the fair value of its interest rate, foreign exchange and equity price
sensitive instruments.

The following table sets
forth the impact of a ten percent change in the value of all equity positions
held by Zebra’s investment managers (in thousands, per share data).

As of December 31,

Equity price sensitive instruments



+10 percent movement

Effect on Pretax
  Income

$

4,333

$

4,287

Effect on
  Diluted EPS (after tax)

$

0.04

$

0.04

-10 percent movement

Effect on Pretax
  Income

$

(4,333

)

$

(4,287

)

Effect on Diluted EPS
  (after tax)

$

(0.04

)

$

(0.04

)

From time to time, Zebra has taken direct equity
positions in companies. These investments relate to potential acquisitions and
other strategic business opportunities. To the extent that it has a direct investment
in the equity securities of another company, Zebra is exposed to the risks
associated with such investments.


Item 8.            Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial
statements and schedule of the Company are annexed to this report as pages F-2
through F-35. An index to such materials appears on page F-1.

Item 9.

Changes
in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures

Not applicable.


Item 9A.         Controls
and Procedures

Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We conducted an evaluation
of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of the end of the
period covered by this Form 10-K. The controls evaluation was conducted under
the supervision of our Disclosure Committee, and with the participation of
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Office and Chief Financial
Officer, have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective to provide reasonable assurance that (i) the information required to
be disclosed by us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K was recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules
and forms, and (ii) information required to be disclosed by us in our reports
that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated
to our management, including our principal executive and principal financial
officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management’s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Exchange Act to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our
management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2006. In making this assessment, our management
used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (“COSO”) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on
this assessment and those criteria, our management believes that, as of
December 31, 2006, our internal control over financial reporting is effective.
Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has
issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of Zebra’s internal
control over financial reporting. That report is included on page 40 of this
report on Form 10-K.

Changes
in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

During 2006, we made changes
to our controls and procedures as part of our ongoing monitoring of our
controls. However, none of these changes has materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.

Inherent
Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls

Our management, including
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that
our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal controls will prevent or
detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived
and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control
system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the
benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the
inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can
provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not
occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Zebra
have been detected.

These inherent limitations
include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that
breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be
circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or
more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any
system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood
of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in
achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections
of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to
risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or
procedures.


Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

On
Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The
Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Zebra Technologies
Corporation:

We have audited management’s
assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting, that Zebra Technologies Corporation and
subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Zebra Technologies Corporation’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because of its inherent
limitation, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s
assessment that Zebra Technologies Corporation and subsidiaries maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, is
fairly stated, in all material respects, based on COSO criteria. Also, in our
opinion, Zebra Technologies Corporation and subsidiaries maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2006, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheet of Zebra Technologies
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders’
equity, and cash flows for the years then ended, and our report dated February
28, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 28, 2007


Item 9B.         Other
Information

Not applicable.


PART III

Item 10.         Directors, Executive Officers and
Corporate Governance

We have adopted a
Code of Ethics that applies to Zebra’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer and the Vice President and Controller. The Code of Ethics is posted on
the investor page of Zebra’s Internet Web site,
www.zebra.com, and is available for download.

All other
information in response to this item is incorporated by reference from the
Proxy Statement sections entitled “Election of Directors” and “Executive
Officers.”

Item 11.         Executive Compensation

The information in
response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement
sections entitled “Executive Compensation and Certain Transactions” and “Compensation
Discussion and Analysis.”

Item 12.         Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information in
response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement
section entitled “Security Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial
Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information.”

Item 13.         Certain Relationships, Related
Transactions and Director Independence

The information in
response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement
section entitled “Executive Compensation and Certain Transactions.”

Item 14.         Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information in
response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement
section entitled “Fees of Independent Auditors.”


PART IV

Item 15.         Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules

The financial statements
and schedule filed as part of this report are listed in the accompanying Index
to Financial Statements and Schedule. The exhibits filed as a part of this
report are listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 1

st

day of March 2007.

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

By:

/s/Edward L.
  Kaplan

Edward L. Kaplan

Chairman
  and

Chief
  Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, the report has been signed below by the following persons
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/Edward L. Kaplan

Chief Executive Officer
  and

March 1, 2007

Edward L. Kaplan

Chairman of the Board
  of Directors

(Principal Executive
  Officer)

/s/Gerhard Cless

Executive Vice
  President,

March 1, 2007

Gerhard Cless

Director

/s/Charles R.
  Whitchurch

Chief Financial Officer
  and Treasurer

March 1, 2007

Charles R. Whitchurch

(Principal Financial
  and Accounting Officer)

/s/Christopher G.
  Knowles

Director

March 1, 2007

Christopher G. Knowles

/s/Ross W. Manire

Director

March 1, 2007

Ross W. Manire

/s/Robert J. Potter

Director

March 1, 2007

Robert J. Potter

/s/Michael A. Smith

Director

March 1, 2007

Michael A. Smith


ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

Financial Statements

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated
  Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005

Consolidated
  Statements of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for
  the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for
  the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004

Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Financial Statement Schedule

The following
  financial statement schedule is included herein:

Schedule II —
  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements
or notes thereto.

F-1

Report
of Independent

Registered Public
Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Zebra
Technologies Corporation:

We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Zebra Technologies Corporation and
subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders’
equity, and cash flows for the years then ended. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a). These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our
audits in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,
the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Zebra Technologies Corporation
and subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of
its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with
U. S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the
related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.

As discussed in
Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R) “Share
Based Payment” effective January 1, 2006 using the modified retrospective
transition method.  In conjunction with
this adoption, the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2005
and for the year then ended have been restated.

We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on the criteria
established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report
dated February 28, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon..

/s/Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 28, 2007

F-2

Report
of Independent

Registered Public
Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Zebra
Technologies Corporation:

We have audited
the accompanying consolidated statement of earnings, comprehensive income,
stockholders’ equity, and cash flows of Zebra Technologies Corporation and
subsidiaries (the Company) for the year ended December 31, 2004. In connection
with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited
the consolidated financial statement schedule of valuation and qualifying
accounts. These consolidated financial statements and the consolidated
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and the consolidated financial statement schedule based on
our audit.

We conducted our
audit in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,
the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the results of operations and the cash flows for Zebra
Technologies Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2004, in conformity
with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related
consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.

As discussed in
Note 2, the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31,
2004 have been restated for the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment

,
using the modified retrospective application method.

/s/KPMG LLP

Chicago, Illinois

March 2, 2005, except as to the 2004
adjustments in

Note
2, which is as of February 28, 2007

F-3

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data)

December 31,

December 31,



(restated —

see Note 2)

ASSETS

Current
  assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

41,014

$

25,621

Investments and marketable securities

219,930

518,618

Accounts receivable, net of allowances of $3,549 in 2006 and $1,116 in

122,540

111,551

Inventories, net

81,190

63,638

Deferred income taxes

9,464

8,188

Prepaid expenses

5,552

5,098

Total current assets

479,690

732,714

Property
  and equipment at cost, net of

accumulated depreciation and amortization

57,431

49,643

Long
  term deferred income taxes

11,917

6,216

Goodwill

70,714

69,097

Other
  intangibles, net

34,025

19,002

Long
  term investments and marketable securities

298,245

¾

Other
  assets

11,120

41,743

Total
  assets

$

963,142

$

918,415

LIABILITIES
  AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current
  liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

28,980

$

24,885

Accrued liabilities

43,191

26,740

Income taxes payable

2,683


Total current liabilities

74,854

52,160

Deferred
  rent



Other
  long-term liability

9,969

7,709

Total
  liabilities

85,461

60,443

Commitments
  and contingencies (Note 16)

Stockholders’
  equity:

Preferred stock

¾

¾

Class A Common Stock



Additional paid-in capital

139,083

139,433

Treasury stock

(119,335

)

(64,013

)

Retained earnings

850,399

779,453

Accumulated other comprehensive income

6,812

2,377

Total
  stockholders’ equity

877,681

857,972

Total liabilities and
  stockholders’ equity

$

963,142

$

918,415

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.

F-4

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
EARNINGS

(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)

Year Ended December 31,



(restated

see Note 2)


(restated

see Note 2)

Net sales

$

759,524

$

702,271

$

663,054

Cost of sales

401,104

348,851

320,951

Gross profit

358,420

353,420

342,103

Operating expenses:

Selling and
  marketing

96,788

91,630

79,111

Research and
  development

48,959

47,359

38,609

General and
  administrative

62,656

64,050

53,083

Amortization of intangible assets

3,653

2,341

2,569

Litigation settlement

53,392

¾

¾

Insurance receivable reserve

12,543

¾

¾

Acquired in-process technology

¾

¾


Exit costs

¾

2,012

2,100

Total
  operating expenses

277,991

207,392

175,494

Operating income

80,429

146,028

166,609

Other income (expense):

Investment income

23,182

13,417

10,628

Interest expense

(252

)

(79

)

(44

)

Foreign exchange gain (loss)

(635

)

1,286


Other, net

(1,082

)

(370

)

(1,594

)

Total
  other income

21,213

14,254

9,475

Income
  before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change

101,642

160,282

176,084

Income
  taxes

32,015

54,098

60,943

Income
  before cumulative effect of accounting change

69,627

106,184

115,141

Cumulative
  effect of accounting change, net of income taxes of $694

(See Note 2)

1,319

¾

¾

Net
  income

$

70,946

$

106,184

$

115,141

Basic
  earnings per share before cumulative effect of accounting change

$

0.99

$

1.49

$

1.61

Diluted
  earnings per share before cumulative effect of accounting change

$

0.98

$

1.47

$

1.59

Basic
  earnings per share

$

1.01

$

1.49

$

1.61

Diluted
  earnings per share

$

1.00

$

1.47

$

1.59

Basic
  weighted average shares outstanding

70,516

71,364

71,556

Diluted weighted average and equivalent shares
  outstanding

70,956

72,000

72,398

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.

F-5

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Amounts in thousands)

Year Ended December 31,



(restated -

see Note 2)


(restated -

see Note 2)

Net
  income

$

70,946

$

106,184

$

115,141

Other
  comprehensive income (loss):

Foreign currency translation adjustment

7,295

(6,407

)

3,402

Changes in unrealized gain/loss on hedging transactions, net ofincome
  taxes

(1,188

)

2,073

(451

)

Changes in unrealized holding gains/loss on investments, net ofincome
  taxes

(1,672

)


(113

)

Comprehensive income

$

75,381

$

102,294

$

117,979

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.

F-6

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(Dollars in thousands)

Class A

Common

Stock

Additional

Paid-in

Capital

Treasury

Stock

Retained

Earnings

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income (Loss)

Total

Balance at December 31, 2003

$


$

61,929

$

¾

$

585,846

$

3,429

$

651,915

Adjustment to beginning balance for adoption of SFAS
  No. 123 (R) (See Note 2)

¾

33,360

¾

(27,718

)

¾

5,642

Adjusted balance at December 31, 2003


95,289

¾

558,128

3,429

657,557

Issuance of 725,274 common shares upon exercise of
  stock options and purchases under stock purchase plan


15,524

¾

¾

¾

15,531

Payment for fractional shares in 3-for-2 stock split

¾

(238

)

¾

¾

¾

(238

)

Additional tax benefit resulting from exercise of options

¾

4,600

¾

¾

¾

4,600

Stock-based compensation

¾

8,464

¾

¾

¾

8,464

Net income

¾

¾

¾

115,141

¾

115,141

Unrealized holding loss on investments (net of income
  taxes)

¾

¾

¾

¾

(113

)

(113

)

Unrealized holding loss on hedging transactions (net
  of income taxes)

¾

¾

¾

¾

(451

)

(451

)

Foreign currency translation adjustment

¾

¾

¾

¾

3,402

3,402

Balance at December 31, 2004


123,639

¾

673,269

6,267

803,893

Issuance of 332,051 common shares upon exercise of
  stock options and purchases under stock purchase plan


7,604

¾

¾

¾

7,608

Repurchase of 1,866,375 shares of Class A Common Stock

¾

¾

(70,421

)

¾

¾

(70,421

)

Issuance of 165,642 treasury shares upon exercise of
  stock options and purchases under stock purchase plan

¾

(2,263

)

6,408

¾

¾

4,145

Additional tax benefit resulting from exercise of options

¾

2,270

¾

¾

¾

2,270

Stock-based compensation

¾

8,183

¾

¾

¾

8,183

Net income

¾

¾

¾

106,184

¾

106,184

Unrealized holding loss on investments (net of income
  taxes)

¾

¾

¾

¾



Unrealized holding gain on hedging transactions (net
  of income taxes)

¾

¾

¾

¾

2,073

2,073

Foreign currency translation adjustment

¾

¾

¾

¾

(6,407

)

(6,407

)

Balance at December 31, 2005


139,433

(64,013

)

779,453

2,377

857,972

Repurchase of 2,080,911 shares of Class A Common Stock

¾

¾

(72,925

)

¾

¾

(72,925

)

Issuance of 459,816 treasury shares upon exercise of
  stock options and purchases under stock purchase plan

¾

(7,201

)

17,603

¾

¾

10,402

Additional tax benefit resulting from exercise of options

¾

1,324

¾

¾

¾

1,324

Stock-based compensation

¾

7,540

¾

¾

¾

7,540

Cumulative effect of accounting change

¾

(2,013

)

¾

1,319

¾

(694

)

Income before cumulative effect of accounting change

¾

¾

¾

69,627

¾

69,627

Unrealized holding loss on investments (net of income
  taxes)

¾

¾

¾

¾

(1,672

)

(1,672

)

Unrealized holding loss on hedging transactions (net
  of income taxes)

¾

¾

¾

¾

(1,188

)

(1,188

)

Foreign currency translation adjustment

¾

¾

¾

¾

7,295

7,295

Balance at December
  31, 2006

$


$

139,083

$

(119,335

)

$

850,399

$

6,812

$

877,681

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.

Note:  All prior
year amounts have been restated for adoption of SFAS 123(R),

Stock-Based Payment.

(See Note 2)

F-7

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Amounts in thousands)

Year Ended December 31,



(restated -

see Note 2)


(restated -

see Note 2)

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

70,946

$

106,184

$

115,141

Adjustments to reconcile net
  income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

16,087

13,104

12,255

Share-based compensation

7,540

8,183

8,464

Excess tax benefit from
  share-based compensation

(1,514

)

(2,258

)

(5,164

)

Cumulative effect of
  accounting change (net of tax)

(1,319

)

¾

¾

Acquired in-process technology

¾

¾


Insurance receivable reserve

12,543

¾

¾

Deferred income taxes

(6,737

)

(2,053

)

(2,955

)

Changes in assets and
  liabilities, net of businesses acquired:

Accounts receivable, net

(4,292

)

(20,422

)

(11,491

)

Inventories

(13,430

)

(6,204

)

(15,456

)

Other assets

(296

)

(8,383

)

(1,464

)

Accounts payable

(1,869

)

3,792

6,420

Accrued liabilities

8,559

(1,992

)

1,974

Income taxes payable

2,586

(2,900

)

8,320

Other operating activities

(552

)

3,421


Net cash provided by operating
  activities

88,252

90,472

116,120

Cash flows from investing activities:

Purchases of property and
  equipment

(19,197

)

(14,286

)

(16,243

)

Acquisition of businesses
  acquired, net of cash acquired

(2,681

)

(7,797

)

¾

Acquisition of intangible
  assets

(18,091

)

(13,754

)

¾

Purchases of investments

(1,110,472

)

(1,021,813

)

(1,297,416

)

Maturities of investments

757,249

673,466

861,249

Sales of investments

374,666

359,711

319,711

Net cash used in investing
  activities

(18,526

)

(24,473

)

(132,699

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Purchase of treasury shares

(68,221

)

(70,421

)

¾

Proceeds from exercise of
  stock options and stock purchase plan purchases

10,402

11,753

15,531

Excess tax benefit from
  share-based compensation

1,514

2,258

5,164

Payments for obligation under
  capital lease

¾

(171

)

(434

)

Other financing activities

¾

¾

(238

)

Net cash provided by (used in)
  financing activities

(56,305

)

(56,581

)

20,023

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash

1,972

(1,780

)


Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

15,393

7,638

3,717

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

25,621

17,983

14,266

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

41,014

$

25,621

$

17,983

Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:

Interest paid

$


$


$


Income taxes paid

33,070

61,453

56,055

Supplemental disclosures of non-cash transaction:

Purchase of treasury shares
  not paid in 2006

$

4,704

¾

¾

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-8

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Note 1 Description of Business

Zebra
Technologies Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (Zebra) design,
manufacture, sell and support a broad range of direct thermal and thermal
transfer label printers, radio frequency identification printer/encoders, dye
sublimation card printers, digital photo printers and related accessories and
support software. These products are used principally in automatic
identification (auto ID), data collection and personal identification
applications and are distributed world-wide through a network of resellers,
distributors and end users representing a wide cross-section of industrial,
service and government organizations.

Note 2 Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation.

These
consolidated financial statements were prepared on a consolidated basis to
include the accounts of Zebra and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All
significant intercompany accounts, transactions and unrealized profit were
eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates.

These
consolidated financial statements were prepared using estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents.

Cash
consists primarily of deposits with banks. In addition, Zebra considers highly
liquid short-term investments with original maturities of less than seven days
to be cash equivalents.

Investments and Marketable
Securities.

Investments and marketable securities at December
31, 2006, consisted of U.S. government securities, state and municipal bonds,
corporate bonds, and partnership interests, which are held indirectly in
diversified funds actively managed by investment professionals. Zebra
classifies its debt and marketable equity securities in one of three
categories: trading, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. Trading securities
are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near
term. Held-to-maturity securities are those debt securities that Zebra has the
ability and intent to hold until maturity. All securities not included in
trading or held-to-maturity are classified as available-for-sale.

Trading and
available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value. Held-to-maturity
securities are recorded at amortized cost, adjusted for the amortization or
accretion of discounts or premiums. Unrealized holding gains and losses on trading
securities are included in earnings. Unrealized holding gains and losses, net
of the related tax effect, on available-for-sale securities are excluded from
earnings and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until
realized.

All investments
in marketable debt securities except the partnership interests are classified
as available-for-sale securities.  We
account for the partnership interests using the cost method until our ownership
percentage reaches 5% of the total partnership portfolio value. At that time,
we begin using the equity method to account for the partnership. During 2006,
we reached the 5% threshold on one of our partnership interests.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.

Zebra maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated uncollectible
accounts receivable. The allowance is based on our assessment of known
delinquent accounts. Accounts are written off against the allowance account
when they are determined to be no longer collectible.

Inventories.

Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost or market, and cost is determined by the
first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.

Property and Equipment.

Property
and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization is computed
primarily using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
various classes of property and equipment, which are 30 years for buildings and
range from 3 to 10 years for other property. Leasehold improvements are
amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term or
estimated useful life of the asset.

Income Taxes.

Zebra
accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Accordingly,
deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be

F-9

recovered or settled. The
effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is
recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.

Intangible Assets.

Goodwill
represents the unamortized excess of the cost of acquiring a business over the
fair values of the net assets received at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is
no longer being amortized as required by SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

.

We test the impairment of goodwill each year or
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value
may not be recoverable. We completed our last assessment during June 2006. At
that time, no adjustment to goodwill was necessary due to impairment.

We evaluate the impairment of identifiable
intangibles and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.

Factors considered that might trigger an impairment
review consist of:

·

Significant underperformance
relative to expected historical or projected future operating results

·

Significant changes in the
manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business

·

Significant negative
industry or economic trends

·

Significant decline in Zebra’s
stock price for a sustained period

·

Significant decline in market capitalization
relative to net book value

If we believe that one or more of the above
indicators of impairment have occurred, we measure impairment based on a projected
discounted cash flow using a discount rate that incorporates the risk inherent
in the cash flows.

Other intangible assets
consist primarily of customer relationships, current technology and patents and
patent licenses. These assets are recorded at cost and amortized on a
straight-line basis over a weighted-average life of 8 years, which approximates
the estimated useful lives. Accumulated amortization for these other intangible
assets was $13,501,000 and $10,415,000 at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Revenue Recognition

.
Revenue includes sales of hardware, supplies, software and services (including
repair services, extended service contracts, and professional services). Product revenue is recognized once
four criteria are met: (1) we have persuasive evidence that an arrangement
exits; (2) delivery has occurred and title has passed to the customer, which
happens at the point of shipment provided that no significant obligations
remain; (3) the price is fixed and determinable; and (4) collectibility is
reasonably assured. We provide for an estimate of product returns based
on historical experience. Revenue related to extended warranty and service
contracts is recorded as deferred income and recognized over the life of the
contract. Professional services revenue is recorded when performed. From time
to time, Zebra will enter into sales transactions that include more than one
product type. This bundle of products might include printers, current or future
supplies, and services. When this type of transaction occurs, we allocate the
purchase price to each product type based on the fair value of the individual
products.  The revenue for each
individual product is then recognized when the earning process for that product
is complete.

Zebra records payments to
resellers of its product as reductions to revenue unless these payments meet
the requirements for operating expense treatment under EITF 01-09

Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including
a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products).

See the market development
funds accounting policy for further details.

Revenue includes all
customer billings for shipping and handling charges. The related costs of
shipping and handling revenue are recorded as cost of goods sold.

Research and Development Costs.

Research
and development costs are expensed as incurred. These costs include:

·

Salaries, benefits, and other R&D
personnel related costs

·

Consulting and other outside services
used in the R&D process

·

Engineering supplies

·

Engineering related information
systems costs

·

Allocation
of building and related costs

From time to time, Zebra
will provide engineering and development services to third parties on a
contract basis. Zebra does not guarantee the outcome of this research and does
not retain any obligation to repay third party funding received for these

F-10

contract services. Since
these services are not part of our standard product offering, we treat payments
received under these arrangements as reductions to research and development
costs.

Advertising.

Advertising
costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expenses for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 totaled $5,857,000, $5,524,000 and $5,117,000,
respectively.

Market Development Funds.

Zebra
makes market development funds available to its resellers to support demand
generation activity by the resellers. These funds require the reseller to
provide specific services or benefits to Zebra and substantiate the fair value
of such. Zebra reimburses resellers for agreed activities up to the fair value
of the benefit received by Zebra. These payments are treated as marketing costs
consistent with the requirements of EITF 01-9

, Accounting
for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the
Vendor’s Products).

Any payments to resellers that do not meet these
requirements are recorded as reductions to revenue.

Warranty.

Zebra
provides warranty coverage of generally up to one year on printers against
defects in material and workmanship. Printheads are warranted for six months
and batteries are warranted for three months. A provision for warranty expense
is recorded at the time of shipment and adjusted quarterly based on historical
warranty experience. The following table is a summary of Zebra’s accrued
warranty obligation.

Year Ended December 31,

Warranty Reserve (in thousands)




Balance at the
  beginning of the period

$

1,922

$

1,691

$

1,351

Warranty expense
  during the period

5,792

6,394

3,209

Warranty payments
  made during the period

(5,464

)

(6,163

)

(2,869

)

Balance at the end of
  the period

$

2,250

$

1,922

$

1,691

During 2005, Zebra began
providing for environmental recycling reserves similar to warranty reserves. In
the European Union, we have an obligation in the future to recycle
printers.  This reserve is based on all
new printers sold after August 13, 2005, and printers sold prior to that date
that are returned to us upon our sale of a new printer to a customer. The
following is a summary of Zebra’s accrued recycling obligation.

Year Ended December 31,

Recycling Reserve (in thousands)



Balance at the
  beginning of the period

$


$

¾

Recycling
  expense during the period

1,373


Recycling
  payments made during the period

¾

¾

Exchange rate
  impact


¾

Balance at the end of
  the period

$

2,115

$


F-11

Fair Value of Financial
Instruments.

Zebra estimates the fair value of its financial
instruments as follows:

Instrument

Method for determining fair value

Cash, cash
  equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable

Cost, which approximates fair value due to the
  short-term nature of these instruments

Investments in
  marketable debt securities

Market quotes from independent pricing services

Partnership
  interests

Cost method, unless Zebra’s ownership interest is
  greater than 5% of the total portfolio value, then equity method

Foreign currency
  forward contracts

Estimated using market quoted rates for foreign currency
  at the balance sheet date

Foreign currency
  option contracts

Estimated using market quoted rates for foreign
  currency at the balance sheet date and application of such rates subject to
  the option terms

Life insurance
  policies

Cash surrender value

In accordance with SFAS
No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities

, we recognize derivative
instruments and hedging activities as either assets or liabilities on the
balance sheet and measure them at fair value. Gains and losses resulting from
changes in fair value are accounted for depending on the use of the derivative
and whether it is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. See Note 15
for additional information on our derivatives and hedging activities.

Stock-based Compensation.

At December 31, 2006, we had two stock-based
compensation plans available for future grants, which are described more fully
in Note 3. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for these plans using the
intrinsic value method in accordance with the recognition and measurement
principles of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,

and related Interpretations, as permitted
by SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation.

Accordingly, we recognized no compensation cost as all
options granted under these plans had grant prices equal to the market value of
the underlying common stock on the date of grant.

Effective
January 1, 2006, Zebra adopted SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment,

utilizing the modified retrospective
approach, which requires the prior period financial statements to be restated
to recognize compensation costs in the amounts previously reported in the pro
forma footnote disclosures. Zebra recognizes compensation costs using the
straight-line method over the vesting period of 2 to 5 years. The following
table summarized the adjustments made to the consolidated financial statements
as a result of these restatements:

(In thousands)

December 31, 2005

As Previously

Share-Based

Reported

Compensation

As Restated

Selected
  Balance Sheet Data:

Long-term
  deferred income tax (liability) asset

$

(1,242

)

$

7,458

$

6,216

Additional
  paid-in capital

93,336

46,097

139,433

Retained earnings

818,092

(38,639

)

779,453

(In thousands)

December 31, 2003

As Previously

Share-Based

Reported

Compensation

As Restated

Selected
  Statement of Stockholder’s Equity:

Addtional
  paid-in capital

61,929

33,360

95,289

Retained
  earnings

585,846

(27,718

)

558,128

Total stockholder’s
  equity

651,915

5,642

657,557

F-12

Additional
paid-in capital was adjusted as follows:

For the Year Ended December 31,

(In thousands)



Selected
  Statement of Stockholder’s Equity:

Reversal of the
  tax benefit of stock options exercised, previously recorded in accordance
  with Accouting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued
  to Employees, and related interpretations

$

(3,815

)

$

(6,965

)

Additional tax benefit
  resulting from exercise of options

2,270

4,600

(In thousands, except per share data)

For the Year Ended December 31, 2005

As Previously

Reported

Share-Based

Compensation

As Restated

Selected Statement of Earnings Data:

Cost of sales

$

348,090

$


$

348,851

Gross profit

354,181

(761

)

353,420

Selling and
  marketing

89,707

1,923

91,630

Research and
  development

46,000

1,359

47,359

General and
  administration

59,910

4,140

64,050

Total operating
  expenses

199,970

7,422

207,392

Operating income

154,211

(8,183

)

146,028

Income before
  income taxes

168,465

(8,183

)

160,282

Income taxes

56,862

(2,764

)

54,098

Net income

111,603

(5,419

)

106,184

Basic earnings
  per share

$

1.56

$

(0.07

)

$

1.49

Diluted earnings per
  share

$

1.55

$

(0.08

)

$

1.47

(In thousands, except per share data)

For the Year Ended December 31, 2004

As Previously

Reported

Share-Based

Compensation

As Restated

Selected
  Statement of Earnings Data:

Cost of sales

$

319,895

$

1,056

$

320,951

Gross profit

343,159

(1,056

)

342,103

Selling and
  marketing

77,062

2,049

79,111

Research and
  development

37,093

1,516

38,609

General and
  administration

49,240

3,843

53,083

Total operating
  expenses

168,086

7,408

175,494

Operating income

175,073

(8,464

)

166,609

Income before
  income taxes

184,548

(8,464

)

176,084

Income taxes

63,905

(2,962

)

60,943

Net income

$

120,643

$

(5,502

)

$

115,141

Basic earnings
  per share

$

1.69

$

(0.08

)

$

1.61

Diluted earnings per
  share

$

1.66

$

(0.07

)

$

1.59

F-13

(In thousands)

For the year Ended December 31



Selected Statment of Cash Flows

Net cash provided by
  operating activities — as reported

$

92,730

$

121,284

Change in net income

(5,419

)

(5,502

)

Change in deferred
  income taxes

(1,219

)

(597

)

Change in income taxes
  payable

2,270

4,600

Stock-based
  compensation

8,183

8,464

Excess tax benefit from
  share-based compensation

(2,258

)

(5,164

)

Reverse tax benefit
  from exercise of stock options

(3,815

)

(6,965

)

Net cash provided by
  operating activities — as restated

$

90,472

$

116,120

Net cash provided by
  (used in) financing activities — as reported

$

(58,839

)

$

14,859

Excess tax benefit from
  share-based compensation

2,258

5,164

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities — as restated

$

(56,581

)

$

20,023

The impact of
compensation expense and the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on the Statement of
Earnings for the year ended December 31, 2006, was as follows:

Year Ended December 31, 2006 (in thousands)

Cost of sales

$


Gross profit

(673

)

Selling and marketing

1,720

Research and
  development

1,111

General and
  administration

4,036

Total operating
  expenses

6,867

Operating income

(7,540

)

Income before income
  taxes and the cumulative effect of accounting change

(7,540

)

Income taxes

(2,556

)

Net income before
  cumulative effect of accounting change

(4,984

)

Cumulative effect of
  accounting change

1,319

Net income

$

(3,665

)

Basic earnings per
  share before cumulative effect of accounting change

$

(0.07

)

Diluted earnings per
  share before cumulative effect of accounting change

$

(0.07

)

Basic earnings per
  share

$

(0.05

)

Diluted earnings per share

$

(0.05

)

Prior to adopting SFAS
No. 123(R), Zebra presented all tax benefits of deductions resulting from the
exercise of stock grants as operating cash flows in the consolidated statements
of cash flows. SFAS No. 123(R) requires the cash flows resulting from the tax
benefits from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized
(excess tax benefits) to be classified as financing cash flows. As a result,
$1,514,000 of excess tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2006, have
been classified as financing cash flows. In accordance with the modified retrospective
method of SFAS No. 123(R), the cash flow statement has been restated to show an
excess tax benefit of $2,258,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $5,164,000
for the year ended December 31, 2004, as a financing cash flows.

SFAS No. 123(R) requires entities to estimate the
number of forfeitures expected to occur and record expense based upon the
number of awards expected to vest. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R),
Zebra accounted for forfeitures as they occurred as permitted under previous
accounting standards. The requirement to estimate forfeitures is classified as
an accounting change under APB Opinion No. 20,

Accounting
Changes

, which requires a one-time adjustment in the period of
adoption. The one-time adjustment (cumulative effect of accounting change)
related to the change in estimating forfeitures increased income by $1,319,000,
net of applicable taxes,

for the year
ended December 31, 2006.

Deferred
Compensation Plan.

Zebra

has a deferred compensation plan that
permits management and highly compensated employees to defer portions of their
compensation. Zebra immediately pays deferred amounts into a Rabbi Trust, and
plan participants select a method of investing these funds into hypothetical
investments. Zebra tracks the performance of these hypothetical investments in
order to determine the value of each participant’s deferral. Zebra accrues the
deferred compensation

F-14

liability
in other long-term liabilities as the amount that is actually owed to the
participants. Our deferred compensation liability was $6,803,000 as of December
31, 2006, and $5,521,000 as of December 31, 2005. Zebra invests the funds in
company owned life insurance policies, in which Zebra is the beneficiary, to
fund the ultimate payment of the deferred compensation. These polices are
valued at the cash surrender value and are included in other assets.

Foreign Currency Translations.

The
consolidated balance sheets of Zebra’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into
U.S. dollars using the year-end exchange rate, and statement of earnings items
are translated using the average exchange rate for the year. The resulting
translation gains or losses are recorded in stockholders’ equity as a
cumulative translation adjustment, which is a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income.

Acquisition
Costs.

Zebra periodically has external expenditures related
to potential acquisitions. These expenditures are recorded as prepaid expenses
until such time as Zebra either completes the transaction or abandons the
transaction. If the transaction is completed, the costs are treated as part of
the cost of the acquisition. If the transaction is abandoned, the costs are
expensed during the period in which it is abandoned.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of

. Zebra accounts for
long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

.
The statement requires that long-lived assets and certain identifiable
intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the sum of the undiscounted
cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the
asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be
recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets
exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at
the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.

Recently Issued Accounting
Pronouncements.

In June 2006, the FASB
issued Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 06-3 (EITF 06-3),

How Sales Taxes Collected from
Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the
Income Statement (That Is, Gross Versus Net Presentation),

which discusses taxes imposed on, and imposed
concurrent with, a specific revenue-producing transaction between a seller and
its customer. It requires entities to disclose, if significant, on an interim
and annual basis for all periods presented: (a) the accounting policy elected
for these taxes and (b) the amounts of the taxes reflected gross (as revenue)
in the income statement. This Issue will become effective for Zebra during the
first quarter of 2007. We do not expect it to have a material impact on our
financial condition or results of operations.

In
June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,

which
prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial
statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be
taken in a tax return. This Interpretation also provides guidance on
de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim
periods, disclosure, and transition. This Interpretation will become effective
for Zebra during the first quarter of 2007. The impact, if any, of this
Interpretation on our financial condition or results of operations has not yet
been determined.

In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,

Fair Value
Measurements

, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands
disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement applies under other
accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. It
does not require any new fair value measurements. This Statement will become
effective for Zebra during the first quarter of 2007. We do not expect it to
have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

Reclassifications

.
Certain amounts in the prior years’ financial statements have been reclassified
to conform to the current year’s presentation.

Note 3 Stock Based Compensation

As of December 31, 2006, Zebra has two active stock
option and stock purchase plans, which are described below.

On
May 9, 2006, the stockholders of Zebra approved the 2006 Zebra Technologies
Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2006 Plan). The 2006 Plan became
effective immediately and superseded the 1997 Stock Option Plan (the 1997 Plan)
and the 2002 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (the 2002 Director Plan),
except that the prior plans will remain in effect with respect to stock options
granted under the prior plans until such options have been exercised,
forfeited, cancelled, expired or otherwise terminated in accordance with the
terms of such grants. The types of awards available under the 2006 Plan are
incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights,
restricted stock, performance shares and units and

F-15

performance-based
cash bonuses. Employees, directors and consultants of the Company and its
subsidiaries would be eligible to participate in the 2006 Plan. As of

December

, 2006, 5,413,033 shares were available
for grant, and options for 33,174 shares were outstanding under the 2006 Plan.

The options
granted under the 2006 Plan have an exercise price equal to the closing market
price of Zebra’s stock on the date of grant. The options granted to employees
generally vest over a five-year period.

These
options expire on the earlier of (a) ten years following the grant date, (b)
immediately if the employee is terminated for cause, (c) ninety days if the
employee is terminated involuntarily other than for cause, (d) thirty days if
the employee voluntarily terminates his or her employment, or (e) one year if
the employee’s employment terminates due to death, disability, or retirement.

The
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors administers the plan.

On October 20, 2006, 53,793 shares of restricted stock
were granted under the Plan to certain executive officers and other managers.
These restricted stock awards will vest one year after the grant date if the
executive remains employed by Zebra throughout the one-year period, but will
vest before the end of the one-year period in the event of death, disability,
resignation for good reason, a change in control (as defined in the 2006 Plan),
or termination by Zebra other than for Cause, as defined in the restricted
stock agreement entered into by Zebra with each executive officer who was
granted restricted stock (the Restricted Stock Agreement). The restricted stock
is forfeited in certain situations specified in the Restricted Stock Agreement,
including, if before the restricted stock vests, the executive’s employment is
terminated by Zebra for Cause (as defined in the Restricted Stock Agreement) or
if the executive resigns for other than good reason.

The 1997 Plan was superseded by the 2006 Plan. As of

December

, 2006, options for 2,242,195 shares were
outstanding and exercisable under the 1997 Plan. These options expire on the
earlier of (a) ten years following the grant date, (b) immediately if the
employee is terminated for cause, (c) ninety days if the employee is terminated
involuntarily other than for cause, (d) thirty days if the employee voluntarily
terminates his or her employment, or (e) one year if the employee’s employment
terminates due to death, disability, or retirement.

The 2002 Director
Plan

was superseded by the 2006 Plan. As of

December 31

, 2006, options for
186,068 shares were outstanding and exercisable under the 2002 Director Plan.
Unless otherwise provided in an option agreement, options granted under the
2002 Director Plan become exercisable in five equal increments beginning on the
date of the grant and on each of the four anniversaries thereafter. All options
expire on the earlier of (a) ten years following the grant date, (b) the first
anniversary of the termination date of the non-employee director’s directorship
for any reason other than those listed in clause (c) below, or (c) the
termination of the non-employee director’s directorship by Zebra’s stockholders
for cause, or resignation for cause, in each case as defined in the option
agreement.

The Board of
Directors and stockholders adopted the 2001 Stock Purchase Plan and reserved
1,125,000 shares of Class A Common Stock for issuance under the plan. Under
this plan, employees who work a minimum of 20 hours per week may elect to
withhold up to 10% of their cash compensation through regular payroll deductions
to purchase shares of Class A Common Stock from Zebra over a period not to
exceed 12 months at a purchase price per share equal to the lesser of: (1) 85%
of the fair market value of the shares as of the date of the grant, or (2) 85%
of the fair market value of the shares as of the date of purchase. As of
December 31, 2006, 458,464 shares have been purchased under the plan.

For purposes of calculating the compensation cost
consistent with SFAS No. 123(R), the fair value of each stock option granted prior
to January 1, 2005, is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model. For stock options granted on or after January 1, 2005,
fair value is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial model. Volatility
is based on an average of the implied volatility in the open market and the
annualized volatility of Zebra’s stock prices over our entire stock history.
The following table shows the weighted-average assumptions used for stock
option grants as well as the fair value of the options granted based on those
assumptions:




Expected
  dividend yield


%


%


%

Forfeiture rate

7.43

%


%


%

Volatility

38.30

%

38.44

%


%

Risk free
  interest rate

4.58

%

3.74

%

3.25

%

— Range of interest rates

4.38% - 4.73

%

2.36% - 4.50

%

NA

Expected
  weighted-average life

4.58 years

4.83 years

6 years

Fair value of
  options granted

$

5,802,000

$

9,701,000

$

8,178,000

Weighted-average grant
  date fair value of options granted

$

14.22

$

17.16

$

24.56

F-16

The fair value of the employees’ purchase rights issued under the Stock
Purchase Plan are estimated with the following weighted-average assumptions
used for purchase rights granted. Expected lives of three months to one year
have been used along with these assumptions.




Fair market
  value

$34.79

$42.46

$49.76

Option price

$29.57

$36.09

$42.29

Expected
  dividend yield


%


%


%

Expected
  volatility


%


%


%

Risk free interest rate

4.54

%

2.86

%

1.19

%

Stock option activity for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, was as follows:




Fixed Options

Shares

Weighted-Average

Exercise Price

Shares

Weighted-Average

Exercise Price

Shares

Weighted-Average

Exercise Price

Outstanding at
  beginning of year

2,548,484

$

31.04

2,593,982

$

25.37

3,159,243

$

21.61

Granted

408,046

43.15

565,200

48.62

333,001

47.37

Exercised

(375,222

)

20.85

(422,586

)

20.26

(660,466

)

18.64

Forfeited

(102,481

)

41.29

(184,087

)

29.70

(234,838

)

24.95

Canceled

(17,390

)

46.09

(4,025

)

34.51

(2,958

)

21.44

Outstanding at
  end of year

2,461,437

$

34.07

2,548,484

$

31.04

2,593,982

$

25.37

Option
  exercisable at end of year

1,035,278

$

26.49

877,068

$

23.11

712,088

$

19.77

The following table summarizes information about fixed stock options
outstanding at December 31, 2006:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Range of

Exercise Prices

Number

of Shares

Weighted-Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

Weighted-Average

Exercise Price

Number

of Shares

Weighted-Average

Exercise Price

$10.89-$21.02

244,856

3.12
  years

$

15.76

244,856

$

15.76

$21.02-$24.21

460,469

5.09
  years

21.67

276,685

21.65

$24.21-$36.39

609,423

5.44
  years

27.12

342,448

27.62

$36.39-$46.18

619,777

8.69
  years

44.25

47,347

43.79

$46.18-$53.92

526,912

7.64
  years

49.49

123,942

48.75

2,461,437

1,035,278

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Aggregate intrinsic
  value

$

15,400,000

$

10,762,000

Weighted-average remaining contractual term

6.4 years

4.9 years

As of

December

, 2006, there was $14,358,000 of unearned compensation cost related to
stock options granted under the plans. That cost is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 1.5 years.

Note 4 Business
Combinations

Swecoin AB.

On
October 4, 2006, Zebra acquired all of the outstanding stock of Swecoin AB for
$2,681,000. Based in Stockholm, Sweden, with a U.S. office in Rhode Island,
Swecoin AB is a leading supplier of thermal receipt, ticket and document
printers for use in kiosks and other unattended printing applications. The
consolidated statements of earnings reflect the results of operations of
Swecoin AB since the effective date of the purchase. The pro forma effect of
this acquisition was not significant.

F-17

The following table (in
thousands) summarized the adjusted fair values of the assets acquired and the
liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition:

At October 4, 2006

Current assets

$

3,948

Property and
  equipment


Intangible
  assets

1,242

Goodwill

1,557

Total assets acquired

6,982

Current
  liabilities

(4,301

)

Net assets
  acquired

$

2,681

The purchase price was
allocated to identifiable tangible assets and intangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values resulting in goodwill
of $1,557,000. The intangible assets of $1,242,000 consist mainly of the
following:

Amount

Useful life

Developed technology

$


5 years

Backlog


4 months

Customer relationships


6 years

Trade name


2.5 years

The goodwill is not
deductible for tax purposes.

Retail Systems International,
Inc.

On February 11, 2005, Zebra acquired certain assets of
Retail Systems International, Inc. (RSI) for $7,797,000. Located in Chula
Vista, California, RSI manufactures labels, tags and other printed media. The
consolidated statements of earnings reflect the results of operations of RSI
since the effective date of the purchase. The pro forma effect of this
acquisition was not significant.

The following table (in
thousands) summarizes the adjusted fair values of the assets acquired at the
date of acquisition.

At February 11, 2005

Inventory

$


Property and
  equipment


Intangible
  assets

1,073

Goodwill

6,017

Total assets
  acquired

$

7,797

The purchase price was
allocated to identifiable tangible assets and intangible assets acquired based
on their estimated fair values resulting in goodwill of $6,017,000. The
intangible assets of $1,073,000 consist mainly of customer relationships with a
useful life of 5 years. The goodwill is fully deductible for tax purposes.

WhereNet Corp.

On
January 25, 2007, Zebra acquired all of the shares of WhereNet Corp. for
$126,000,000, less applicable post-closing price adjustments, if any, and
subject to an escrow amount of $13,600,000. Headquartered in Santa Clara, CA,
WhereNet provides integrated wireless Real Time Locating Systems (RTLS) to
companies primarily in the industrial manufacturing, transportation and
logistics, and aerospace and defense sectors. This transaction had no impact on
our 2006 financial condition or results of operations.

F-18

Note 5
Stockholders’ Equity

Share count and par
value data related to stockholders’ equity are as follows:

December 31


December 31,


Preferred Stock

Par value per share

$

0.01

$

0.01

Shares authorized

10,000,000

10,000,000

Shares outstanding

¾

¾

Common Stock—Class A

Par value per share

$

0.01

$

0.01

Shares authorized

150,000,000

150,000,000

Shares issued

72,151,857

72,151,857

Shares outstanding

68,830,029

70,451,124

Treasury stock

Shares held

3,321,828

1,700,733

During 2006, Zebra sold
put options indexed in our own stock that would, if exercised, require us to
repurchase 100 shares for each option exercised at a specified strike price. As
of December 31, 2006, 2,350 options were outstanding and have an expiration of
February 2007. All options have a strike price of $35 per share. If all of the
options were to be exercised, Zebra would be required to repurchase 235,000
shares of Class A Common Stock at a total price of $8,225,000.

Stockholder
Rights Agreement.

Zebra’s Board of Directors adopted a
Stockholder Rights Agreement under which stock purchase rights were paid by
dividend to stockholders of record on March 15, 2002 at the rate of one Class A
Right for each outstanding share of Class A Common Stock. Each Class A Right,
other than those held by the acquiring person, entitles the registered holder
to purchase one ten-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, at a price of $300 per one
ten-thousandth of Class A Preferred Share after the distribution date. The
distribution date is 10 days after the date on which any person or group
announces that it has acquired 15% or more of Zebra’s outstanding common stock
or 10 days (or a later date as determined by the Board of Directors) after the
date on which any person or group announces or commences a tender offer that
would result in the person or group becoming an owner of 15% or more of the
outstanding common stock.

The Rights will expire on
March 14, 2012 unless that date has been extended by the Board of Directors or
unless the Rights are redeemed or terminated earlier. A committee of Zebra’s
independent directors will review the Rights Plan at least every three years
and decide whether it should continue or be revoked. Zebra generally may amend
the Rights Plan or redeem the Rights at $0.001 per Right at any time prior to
the time a person or group has acquired at least 15% of the outstanding common
stock.

Note 6 Earnings Per
Share

For the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, earnings per share before cumulative effect
of the accounting change were computed as follows (in thousands, except
per-share amounts):

Year Ended December 31,



(restated —

see Note 2)


(restated —

see Note 2)

Basic
  earnings per share:

Income
  before cumulative effect of accounting change

$

69,627

$

106,184

$

115,141

Weighted
  average common shares outstanding

70,516

71,364

71,556

Per share amount

$

0.99

$

1.49

$

1.61

Diluted
  earnings per share:

Income
  before cumulative effect of accounting change

$

69,627

$

106,184

$

115,141

Weighted
  average common shares outstanding

70,516

71,364

71,556

Add:
  Effect of dilutive securities — stock options




Diluted
  weighted average and equivalent shares outstanding

70,956

72,000

72,398

Per
  share amount

$

0.98

$

1.47

$

1.59

F-19

For the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, earnings per share after the cumulative
effect of the accounting change were computed as follows (in thousands, except
per-share amounts):

Year Ended December 31,



(restated —

see Note 2)


(restated —

see Note 2)

Basic earnings per share:

Net income

$

70,946

$

106,184

$

115,141

Weighted average common shares outstanding

70,516

71,364

71,556

Per share amount

$

1.01

$

1.49

$

1.61

Diluted earnings per share:

Net income

$

70,946

$

106,184

$

115,141

Weighted average common shares outstanding

70,516

71,364

71,556

Add: Effect of dilutive securities — stock options




Diluted weighted average and equivalent shares outstanding

70,956

72,000

72,398

Per share amount

$

1.00

$

1.47

$

1.59

The potentially dilutive
securities that were excluded from the earnings per share calculation consist
of stock options with an exercise price greater than the average market price
of the Class A Common Stock. These options were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Potentially
  dilutive shares

1,140,689

804,490

13,800

No

te 7 Investments and Marketable Securities

We classify our
investments in marketable debt securities as available-for-sale in accordance
with the classifications defined in SFAS No. 115,

Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.

As of December 31, 2006, all of our
investments in marketable debt securities with maturities greater than one year
are classified as long-term in the balance sheet due to our ability to hold
them until maturity.

SFAS
No. 115 requires that

changes in the market value of available-for-sale
securities are reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income caption
of stockholders’ equity in the balance sheet, until we dispose of the
securities. Once these securities are disposed of, either by sale or maturity,
the accumulated changes in market value are transferred to investment income.
On the cash flow statements, changes in the balances of

available-for-sale

securities are included
in purchases, sales and maturities of investments under investing activities.

Changes in market value
of

trading

securities would be
recorded in investment income as they occur, and the related cash flow
statement includes changes in the balances of trading securities as operating
cash flows.

All investments in
marketable debt securities except the partnership interests are classified as
available-for-sale securities. We account
for the partnership interests using the cost method until our ownership
percentage reaches 5% of the total partnership portfolio value, because at that
point we begin using the equity method to account for the partnership interest.
During 2006, we reached the 5% threshold on one of our partnership interests.
Therefore, we recorded $1,064,000 in equity in earnings related to this
partnership interest, which is included in investment income. No other gains or
losses on trading securities were recorded in investment income.

F-20

The amortized cost, gross unrealized holding gains, gross unrealized
holding losses and aggregate fair value of investment securities at December
31, 2006, were as follows (in thousands):

Amortized

Cost

Gross

Unrealized

Holding Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Holding Losses

Fair Value

Available-for-sale:

U.S. government and agency securities

$

96,885

$


$

(730

)

$

96,157

State and municipal bonds

373,998


(1,193

)

373,169

Corporate bonds

8,199

¾

(84

)

8,115

Other

1,017

¾

¾

1,017

480,099

$


$

(2,007

)

$

478,458

Partnership
  interests using cost method

28,653

¾

¾

28,653

Partnership
  interests using equity method

10,000

1,064

¾

11,064

$

518,752

$

1,430

$

(2,007

)

$

518,175

The amortized cost,
gross unrealized holding gains, gross unrealized holding losses and aggregate
fair value of investment securities at December 31, 2005, were as follows (in
thousands):

Amortized

Cost

Gross

Unrealized

Holding Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Holding Losses

Fair Value

Available-for-sale:

U.S. government and agency securities

$

63,042

$


$

(1,036

)

$

62,011

State and municipal bonds

393,760


(2,329

)

391,537

Corporate bonds

21,202

¾

(431

)

20,771

Partnership interests

38,653

4,726

¾

43,379

Other


¾

¾


$

517,577

$

4,837

$

(3,796

)

$

518,618

Changes in unrealized
gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are included in these
financial statements as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Changes in unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale
  securities, net of tax, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income

$

(1,672

)

$


$

(113

)

The following table shows the number, aggregate market value and
unrealized losses (in thousands) of investments with market values that were
less than amortized cost as of December 31, 2006. These lower market values are
caused by short-term fluctuations in interest rates and are not a reflection of
the credit worthiness of the issuer. 
Market values are expected to recover to the amortized cost prior to
maturity.

Unrealized Loss < 12 months

Unrealized Loss > 12 months

Number of

investments

Aggregate

Market Value

Unrealized

Losses

Number of

investments

Aggregate

Market Value

Unrealized

Losses

Government
  securities


$

5,954

$

(4

)


$

24,111

$

(726

)

State
  and municipal bonds


101,851

(396

)


136,752

(797

)

Corporate
  bonds


6,034

(61

)


1,977

(23

)

Total


$

113,839

$

(461

)


$

162,840

$

(1,546

)

F-21

As of December 31, 2005, the number, aggregate market value and
unrealized losses (in thousands) of investments with market values that were
less than amortized cost were:

Unrealized Loss < 12 months

Unrealized Loss > 12 months

Number of

investments

Aggregate

Market Value

Unrealized

Losses

Number of

investments

Aggregate

Market Value

Unrealized

Losses

Government
  securities


$

5,921

$

(21

)


$

39,212

$

(1,014

)

State
  and municipal bonds


105,499

(458

)


224,594

(1,872

)

Corporate
  bonds


3,555

(5

)


15,424

(426

)

Total


$

114,975

$

(484

)


$

279,230

$

(3,312

)

Zebra is a limited partner in four non-registered partnerships. The
partnerships seek to provide returns to its partners by making strategic
investments in a diversified portfolio of investment funds. Zebra’s investment
as a limited partner allows it to have liability protection limited to the
amount of its investments in the funds.

The contractual maturities of debt securities at December 31, 2006, were
as follows (in thousands):

Fair Value

Due within one year

$

208,866

Due after one year through five
  years

198,873

Due after five year through ten
  years

18,006

Due after ten years

52,713

$

478,458

Using
the specific identification method, the proceeds and realized gains on the
sales of available-for-sale securities were as follows (in thousands):




Proceeds

$

337,671

$

359,711

$

319,711

Realized gains



1,289

Realized losses

(1,385

)

(2,060

)

(900

)

Net
  realized gains/(losses) included in other comprehensive income as of the end
  of the prior year

(1,041

)

(1,544

)


Note 8
Related-Party Transactions

Unique Building
Corporation (Unique), an entity controlled by certain officers and stockholders
of Zebra, leases a facility to Zebra under a lease described in Note 16.
Management believes that the lease payments are substantially consistent with
amounts that could have been negotiated with third parties on an arm’s-length
basis and represent market conditions at the time of the negotiations.

Lease payments related to
the lease, and recorded as a component of all functional areas, were included
in the consolidated financial statements as follows (in thousands):

Unique

Operating Lease


$

2,336


2,336


2,284

F-22

Future minimum lease
payments related to the lease as of December 31, 2006, are as follows (in
thousands):

Unique

Operating Lease


$

2,336


2,380


2,573


2,753


2,753

Thereafter

6,882

Total minimum lease
  payments

$

19,677

Note 9
Inventories

The components of
inventories, net of allowances, are as follows (in thousands):

December 31,



Raw material

$

49,172

$

39,779

Work in process

1,014


Finished goods

31,004

23,725

Total
  inventories

$

81,190

$

63,638

Inventory reserves
  (included in above numbers)

$

9,866

$

7,598

Note 10
Property and Equipment

Property and
equipment, which includes assets under capital leases, is comprised of the
following (in thousands):

December 31,



Buildings

$

14,760

$

12,184

Land

1,910

1,910

Machinery,
  equipment and tooling

59,915

50,132

Furniture and
  office equipment

7,669

7,090

Computers and
  software

51,650

44,507

Automobiles



Leasehold
  improvements

8,345

8,449

Projects in
  progress

6,659

6,589

150,922

130,875

Less accumulated
  depreciation and amortization

(93,491

)

(81,232

)

Net property and
  equipment

$

57,431

$

49,643

Other items related to
property and equipment are as follows:

December 31,



Unamortized
  computer software costs

$

11,755

$

9,559

Year Ended December 31,




Amortization of
  capitalized software

$

3,600

$

2,938

$

2,125

Total depreciation
  expense charged to income

12,434

10,763

9,686

F-23

Note 11
Income Taxes

The geographical
sources of income before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting
change were as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




United States

$

86,609

$

133,922

$

156,320

Outside United
  States

15,033

26,360

19,764

Total

$

101,642

$

160,282

$

176,084

Zebra’s intention is to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings
of all of our foreign subsidiaries in accordance with APB Opinion No. 23,

Accounting for Income Taxes — Special Areas.

Accordingly, we
have not provided for deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries, which totaled approximately $37,400,000 at December 31,
2006 and $33,000,000 at December 31, 2005. Should such earnings be remitted to
Zebra, foreign tax credits would be available to substantially offset the U.S.
income taxes due upon repatriation.

The provision for income
taxes consists of the following (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Current:

Federal

$

29,376

$

42,146

$

48,014

State

2,804

4,706

5,531

Foreign

4,560

8,070

6,023

Deferred:

Federal

(3,748

)

(766

)

1,387

State

(283

)

(58

)


Foreign

¾

¾

(116

)

Total

$

32,709

$

54,098

$

60,943

The provision for income
taxes differs from the amount computed by applying the U.S. statutory Federal
income tax rate of 35% to income before income taxes. The reconciliation of
statutory and effective income taxes is presented below (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Provision
  computed at statutory rate

$

36,279

$

56,099

$

61,629

State income tax
  (net of Federal tax benefit)

1,412

2,816

3,371

Tax-exempt
  interest income

(4,378

)

(3,301

)

(1,767

)

Tax benefit of
  exempt foreign trade income

(1,365

)

(1,575

)

(1,750

)

Domestic
  manufacturing deduction

(665

)

(735

)

¾

Research and
  experimental credit

(350

)

(350

)

(350

)

Other

1,776

1,144

(190

)

Provision for income
  taxes

$

32,709

$

54,098

$

60,943

The amounts in the
previous two tables include the tax on the cumulative effect of accounting
principle of $694,000 for 2006.

Deferred income taxes
reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and such amounts as measured by
tax laws. Based on management’s assessment, it is more likely than not that the
deferred tax assets will be realized through future taxable earnings.

F-24

Tax effects of temporary
differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as
follows (in thousands):

December 31,



Deferred tax
  assets:

Deferred rent-building

$


$


Capital equipment lease

¾


Accrued vacation

1,369

1,115

Deferred compensation

2,503

2,078

Inventory items

4,636

4,142

Allowance for doubtful accounts and other
  receivables

4,057


Other accruals

5,217

3,338

FAS 123(R) stock option expense

6,675

7,458

Unrealized loss on securities — FAS 115


¾

Recognized tax gain on partnership interests

3,863

3,709

Unrealized loss on hedges


¾

Total deferred tax assets

29,518

22,287

Deferred tax liabilities:

Unrealized gain on securities

¾

(306

)

Acquisition related items

(182

)

(419

)

Depreciation and amortization

(7,955

)

(7,158

)

Total deferred
  tax liabilities

(8,137

)

(7,883

)

Net deferred tax assets

$

21,381

$

14,404

Note 12
Goodwill and Other Intangible Asset Data

Intangible asset
data are as follows (in thousands):

December 31, 2006

December 31, 2005

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Amortized intangible
  assets

Current
  technology

$

15,481

$

(9,566

)

$

12,258

$

(9,067

)

Patent and
  patent rights

28,247

(2,645

)

13,753

(565

)

Customer
  relationships

3,798

(1,290

)

3,406

(783

)

Total

$

47,526

$

(13,501

)

$

29,417

$

(10,415

)

Unamortized intangible
  assets

Goodwill

$

70,714

$

69,097

Aggregate amortization
  expense

For the year
  ended December 31, 2005

$

2,341 341

For the year
  ended December 31, 2006

$

3,653

Estimated amortization
  expense

For the year
  ended December 31, 2007

5,513

For the year
  ended December 31, 2008

5,503

For the year
  ended December 31, 2009

5,387

For the year
  ended December 31, 2010

4,621

For the year
  ended December 31, 2011

4,276

Thereafter

8,725

During 2006, we acquired intangible assets in the
amount of $18,091,000 for customer relationships, current technology, patents
and patent rights. These intangible assets will have an estimated useful life
of 4 months to 10 years. Also during 2006, we reviewed the usefulness of
certain other intangibles and found them to be impaired. As a result of this
impairment, we incurred a write-off of net intangibles of $730,000.

F-25

During 2006, goodwill increased by $1,617,000 due
primarily to the acquisition of Swecoin. See Note 4. The remaining difference
is due to foreign currency translations of the Swecoin goodwill.

Included in the
acquisition of intangible assets was a payment for the settlement of a lawsuit
with Paxar Americas, Inc. A portion, $10,358,000, of this settlement has been
applied to future use of patents. This portion of the settlement has been
recorded as intangibles and will be amortized over the estimated useful lives
of the patents, which range from 4 to 7 years. In some cases, the useful lives
may be less than the patent lives. See Note 16 for further discussion of the
settlement.

Note 13
Other Assets

Other assets
consist of the following (in thousands):

December 31,



Cash value of life insurance policies related to the deferred
  compensation plan (See Note 18)

$

5,888

$

4,751

Cash value of life insurance policies on key executives

¾

21,602

Long-term equity securities



Deposits



Other long-term assets

4,625

14,978

Total

$

11,120

$

41,743

Zebra invested
$10,028,000 in life insurance policies on 48 key executives in each of the last
three years for a total cost of $30,084,000. These policies were sold during
2006.

Included in other
long-term assets at December 31, 2005 was a note receivable from a Zebra
reseller for $9,126,000. During 2006,
this reseller filed for bankruptcy protection. Accordingly, we have recorded a
reserve for the entire balance. See Note 16 for further discussion.

Note 14
401(k) Savings and Profit Sharing Plans

Zebra has a
Retirement Savings and Investment Plan (the 401(k) Plan), which is intended to
qualify under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualified employees
may participate in Zebra’s 401(k) Plan by contributing up to 15% of their gross
earnings to the plan subject to certain Internal Revenue Service restrictions.
Zebra matches each participant’s contribution of up to 6% of gross eligible
earnings at the rate of 50%. Zebra may contribute additional amounts to the
401(k) Plan at the discretion of the Board of Directors, subject to certain
legal limits.

Zebra has a discretionary
profit-sharing plan for qualified employees, to which it contributes a
percentage of eligible payroll each year. Participants are not permitted to
make contributions under the profit-sharing plan.

Company contributions to
these plans, which were charged to operations, approximated the following (in
thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




401(k)

$

2,030

$

1,874

$

1,771

Profit sharing

1,628

1,775

2,329

Total

$

3,658

$

3,649

$

4,100

Percentage of eligible payroll contributed for profit sharing plan

1.8

%

2.4

%

3.1

%

Note 15
Derivative Instruments

In the normal
course of business, portions of Zebra’s operations are subject to fluctuations
in currency values. We manage these risks using derivative financial
instruments.

F-26

Hedging
of Net Assets

We use forward contracts
and options to manage exposure related to our pound and euro denominated net
assets. We record gains and losses on these contracts and options in income
each quarter along with the transaction gains and losses related to our net
euro asset position. Summary financial information related to these activities
follows (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,




Change in gains and losses from foreign exchange derivatives

$

(73

)

$


$

(1,246

)

Gain on net foreign currency assets

(562

)


1,731

Net foreign exchange gain

$

(635

)

$

1,286

$


December 31,


December 31,


Notional balance of outstanding contracts:

Pound

£

2,660

£

3,289

Euro

€

17,000

€

25,000

Euro/Pound

€

22,000

€

16,000

Net
  fair value of outstanding contracts

$

(172,000

)

$

553,000

Hedging
of Anticipated Sales

We manage the exchange
rate risk of anticipated euro denominated sales using forward contracts and
option collars. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges. Gains and
losses on these contracts are deferred in other comprehensive income until the
contracts are settled and the hedged sales are realized, at which time the
deferred gains or losses will be reported as an increase or decrease to sales.
Summary financial information related to the cash flow hedges of future
revenues follows (in thousands, except percentages):

December 31,


December 31,


Net unrealized
  gains (losses) deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income:

Gross

$

(906

)

$


Income tax (benefit)

(341

)


Net

$

(565

)

$


Notional balance
  of outstanding contracts

€

44,075

€

30,750

Hedge effectiveness


%


%




Net gain and (losses) included in revenue for the:

Year ended December 31, 2006

$

(873

)

Year ended December 31, 2005

$

1,617

Year ended December 31, 2004

(1,639

)

The above year-to-date
gains and losses are the net pretax gains and losses released from other
comprehensive income into earnings during these years. We expect to release
pretax losses in the amount of $906,000 from other comprehensive income into
earnings during 2007 along with gains and losses on similar contracts entered
into early in 2007. Currently, the initial duration of our forecasted sales
hedge contracts is six months. Effectiveness testing is performed on each
contract monthly. We have not experienced any gains or losses due to
ineffectiveness. If we were to experience such gains or losses, we would record
them as a foreign exchange gain or loss. If we were to cancel or net settle a
hedge designated as a cash flow hedge prior to the scheduled settlement date,
we would recognize the gain or loss on that settlement immediately as a foreign
exchange gain or loss.

F-27

Note 16
Commitments and Contingencies

Leases.

In
September 1989, Zebra entered into a lease agreement for its Vernon Hills
facility and certain machinery, equipment, furniture and fixtures with Unique
Building Corporation, a related party. The facility portion of the lease is the
only remaining portion currently in existence and is treated as an operating
lease. An amendment to the lease dated July 1997 added 59,150 square feet and
extended the term of the existing lease through June 30, 2014. The lease agreement
includes a modification to the base monthly rental, which goes into effect if
the prescribed rent payment is less than the aggregate principal and interest
payments required to be made by Unique under an Industrial Revenue Bond (IRB).

Minimum future
obligations under all non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2006
are as follows (in thousands):

Operating

Leases


6,163


5,056


4,816


4,407


4,294

Thereafter

19,833

Total minimum
  lease payments

$

44,569

Rent expense for
operating leases charged to operations was as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Rent expense

$

9,011

$

7,822

$

6,404

In addition to the related
party lease noted above, the operating lease information includes a variety of
other properties around the world. These properties are used as manufacturing
facilities, distribution centers and sales offices. Lease terms range from six
months to 25 years with breaking periods specified in the lease agreements.

Letter of credit.

In
connection with the lease agreements described above, Zebra has guaranteed
Unique’s full and prompt payment under Unique’s letter of credit agreement with
a bank. The contingent liability of Zebra under this guaranty as of December
31, 2006 is $700,000, which is the limit of Zebra’s guaranty throughout the
term of the IRB.

Legal
proceedings.

On September 14, 2006,
Zebra settled all issues surrounding the litigation with Paxar Americas, Inc.,
and the case was dismissed with prejudice. Zebra paid Paxar $63,750,000 in
exchange for a general release and a fully paid, perpetual, worldwide license
to all of the patents in suit, as well as a number of related U.S. and foreign
patents that Paxar had not asserted in the suit. The license to sell products
in the United States under four U.S. patents not subject to the lawsuit is
limited until September 14, 2009. There is no such limitation on the license
under the patents in suit. Of the amount paid to Paxar, $10,358,000 was applied
to future use of patents based on their estimated fair value and will be
amortized over an estimated useful life of 4 to 7 years. The remaining
$53,392,000 was recorded as operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of
Earnings (Loss) in the third quarter of 2006.

On January 31, 2003, a Writ of Summons was filed in
the Nantes Commercial Court, Nantes, France, by Printherm, a French
corporation, and several of its shareholders (collectively, “Printherm”), against
Zebra Technologies France (“ZTF”), a French corporation and wholly-owned
subsidiary of Zebra. Printherm seeks damages in the amount of €15,304,000 and
additional unspecified damages in connection with ZTF’s termination of
negotiations in December 2000 respecting the proposed acquisition by Zebra of
the capital stock of Printherm. The negotiation was terminated based on
unsatisfactory results of the ongoing due diligence. We believe that Printherm’s
claims are without merit and that a loss is not likely to occur. We will
vigorously defend the action.

Printherm filed bankruptcy
proceedings on August 30, 2004, and the Commercial Court ordered its
liquidation on November 30, 2004. The case was put on hold until the Court
appointed liquidator filed a submission in August 2005, which started the
proceedings again. ZTF filed its answer on November 19, 2005, in anticipation
of a Court-ordered December 19, 2005, hearing date. In response to a request by
Printherm’s liquidator, the Court postponed the hearing date so as to provide
time for Printherm to respond to ZTF’s answer. The hearing has not been
scheduled, and we are unsure when it will be scheduled.

F-28

On July 3, 2006, a Zebra reseller filed for bankruptcy protection.
At the time of the filing, the reseller owed various Zebra subsidiaries a total
of $12,065,000. The entire balance due to Zebra is guaranteed by Condor
Insurance, a Nevis insurance company, through a United Kingdom insurance
broker. During June 2006, Zebra initiated a suit in the U.K. courts to enforce
the guarantee. On January 18, 2007, a summary judgment hearing was held in the
case. At the conclusion of that hearing, Zebra’s petition for summary judgment
was granted, and we were awarded damages of €11,119,000 (approximately
$14,650,000). However, we have become aware that Condor’s financial position
has deteriorated such that Condor may not be able to pay the judgment awarded
to us. Management has reviewed the situation and determined that a loss is
probable as defined in SFAS

No.

5,

Loss
Contingencies.

Our range of estimated losses ranges from
insignificant up to 100%. Our best estimate is that the loss will be at the
high end of the range, and we have, therefore, reserved 100% of the balance
due. However, we are continuing to take legal action to collect the judgment
against the insurance company and reduce Zebra’s loss. If Zebra is able to
recover some or all of the loss, we will reverse our reserve and record a gain
at that time.

Note 17
Segment Data and Export Sales

Zebra
is organized with two internal business units, bar code and card printers.
These business units have similar economic characteristics, products and
services, production processes, types of customers, distribution methods, and
regulatory environments. Additionally, there are significant shared services
supporting both business units. Because of these similarities, we have
aggregated our internal business units and have treated them as one reportable
segment as permitted by SFAS No. 131,

Disclosures
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.

Information regarding
Zebra’s operations by geographic area is contained in the following table.
These amounts (in thousands) are reported in the geographic area of the
destination of the final sale. We
manage our business based on these regions rather than by individual countries.

North

America

Europe, Middle

East & Africa

Latin

America

Asia

Total


Net sales

$

379,820

$

260,125

$

53,619

$

65,960

$

759,524

Long-lived assets

50,077

6,637



57,431


Net sales

$

362,054

$

230,365

$

46,878

$

62,974

$

702,271

Long-lived assets

43,448

5,917



49,643


Net sales

$

359,074

$

213,559

$

38,119

$

52,302

$

663,054

Long-lived assets

40,415

5,669



46,283

Net
sales by major product category are as follows (in thousands):

Hardware

Supplies

Service and

Software

Shipping

and

Handling

Cash Flow

Hedging

Activities

Total


$

578,002

$

150,709

$

25,664

$

6,022

$

(873

)

$

759,524


540,679

129,183

25,217

5,575

1,617

702,271


518,556

116,877

24,310

4,950

(1,639

)

663,054

F-29

Note 18
Deferred Compensation Plan

Zebra
offers a deferred compensation plan that permits executive management employees
to defer portions of their compensation and to select a method of investing
these funds. The salaries that have been deferred since the plan’s inception
have been accrued and the only expense, other than salaries, related to this
plan is the gain or loss from the changes to the deferred compensation
liability, which is charged to compensation expense. To fund this plan, Zebra
purchases corporate-owned whole-life insurance contracts on the related employees,
of which Zebra is the beneficiary. The following table shows the income, asset
and liability amounts related to this plan (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,




Gain on cash surrender value
  of life insurance policies included in investment income

$


$


$


December 31,


December 31,


Deferred compensation
  liability included in other long-term liability

$

6,803

$

5,521

Cash surrender value included in other assets

5,888

4,751

Note 19
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Stockholders’ equity
contains certain items classified as other comprehensive income, including:

·

Foreign currency translation adjustments

related to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional
currency other than the dollar. We are required to translate the subsidiary
functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of
historical, month-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of
rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustments component of other
comprehensive income.

·

Unrealized holding gains (losses) on foreign
currency hedging activities

relate to derivative
instruments used to hedge the currency exchange rates for forecasted euro
sales. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred
income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transaction
occurs. See Note 15 for more details.

·

Unrealized gains (losses) on investments
classified as available-for-sale

are deferred from
income statement recognition. See Note 7 for more details.

The components of other
comprehensive income included in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income are as follows (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,




Foreign currency
  translation adjustments

$

7,295

$

(6,407

)

$

3,402

Changes in
  unrealized gains and (losses) on hedging transactions:

Gross

$

(1,905

)

$

3,230

$

(694

)

Income tax (benefit)

(717

)

1,157

(243

)

Net

$

(1,188

)

$

2,073

$

(451

)

Changes in
  unrealized holding gains and (losses) on investments classified as
  available-for-sale:

Gross

$

(2,682

)

$


$

(174

)

Income tax (benefit)

(1,010

)


(61

)

Net

$

(1,672

)

$


$

(113

)

F-30

The components of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets are as follows (in thousands):

As of

December 31,

December 31,



Foreign currency
  translation adjustments

$

8,400

$

1,105

Unrealized gains
  and (losses) on foreign currency hedging activities:

Gross

$

(906

)

$


Income tax
  (benefit)

(341

)


Net

$

(565

)

$


Unrealized gains
  and (losses) on investments classified as available-for-sale

:

Gross

$

(1,641

)

$

1,041

Income tax
  (benefit)

(618

)


Net

$

(1,023

)

$


Note 20 Major
Customers

ScanSource, Inc. is our
most significant customer. Our net sales to ScanSource, an international
distributor of Zebra product, as a percent of total net sales were as follows:

Year ended December 31,




ScanSource

16.7

15.6

14.1

No other customer
accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during these years.

F-31

Note 21
Quarterly Results of Operations (unaudited)

(Amounts in thousands,
except per share data)

First

Second

Third

Fourth


Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Net
  sales

$

175,814

$

187,421

$

186,386

$

209,903

Cost
  of sales

93,116

97,895

98,600

111,493

Gross
  profit

82,698

89,526

87,786

98,410

Selling
  and marketing

22,109

23,510

23,467

27,702

Research
  and engineering

12,035

12,382

11,774

12,768

General
  and administrative

14,649

15,081

14,642

18,284

Amortization
  of intangibles




1,394

Litigation
  settlement

¾

¾

53,392

¾

Insurance
  receivable write-off

¾

¾

¾

12,543

Total
  operating expenses

49,540

51,696

104,064

72,691

Operating
  income (loss)

33,158

37,830

(16,278

)

25,719

Investment
  income (expense)

5,207

4,987

6,008

6,980

Interest
  expense

(218

)

(13

)

(5

)

(16

)

Foreign
  exchange gain (loss)


(380

)


(822

)

Other,
  net

(448

)

(177

)

(287

)

(170

)

Total
  other income (expense)

4,651

4,417

6,173

5,972

Income
  (loss) before taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change

37,809

42,247

(10,105

)

31,691

Income
  taxes

13,037

14,575

(5,842

)

10,245

Income
  (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change

24,772

27,672

(4,263

)

21,446

Cumulative
  effect of accounting change (net of tax of $694)

1,319

¾

¾

¾

Net
  income (loss)

$

26,091

$

27,672

$

(4,263

)

$

21,446

Basic
  earnings (loss) per share before cumulative effect of accounting change

$

0.35

$

0.39

$

(0.06

)

$

0.31

Diluted
  earnings (loss) per share before cumulative effect of accounting change

$

0.35

$

0.39

$

(0.06

)

$

0.30

Basic
  earnings (loss) per share

$

0.37

$

0.39

$

(0.06

)

$

0.31

Diluted earnings (loss) per share

$

0.37

$

0.39

$

(0.06

)

$

0.30

F-32

First

Second

Third

Fourth


Quarter (1)

Quarter (1)

Quarter (1)

Quarter (1)

Net
  sales

$

170,727

$

176,614

$

175,636

$

179,294

Cost
  of sales

83,599

87,467

88,103

89,682

Gross
  profit

87,128

89,147

87,533

89,612

Selling
  and marketing

21,564

23,050

21,291

25,725

Research
  and engineering

11,052

12,386

11,818

12,103

General
  and administrative

15,802

17,801

15,631

14,816

Amortization
  of intangibles





Exit
  costs

1,517




Total
  operating expenses

50,582

53,765

49,532

53,513

Operating
  income

36,546

35,382

38,001

36,099

Investment
  income (expense)

3,277

3,072

3,254

3,814

Interest
  expense

(3

)

(27

)

(41

)

(8

)

Foreign
  exchange gain (loss)





Other,
  net

(304

)

(243

)


(74

)

Total
  other income (expense)

3,023

3,614

3,798

3,819

Income
  before taxes

39,569

38,996

41,799

39,918

Income
  taxes

13,750

13,551

13,724

13,073

Net
  income

$

25,819

$

25,445

$

28,075

$

26,845

Basic
  earnings per share

$

0.36

$

0.35

$

0.39

$

0.38

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.36

$

0.35

$

0.39

$

0.38

(1)

Restated for the
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment.

See
Note 2.

F-33

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

Schedule II

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(Amounts in thousands)

Description

Balance at

Beginning of

Period

Charged to

Costs and

Expenses

Deductions /

(Recoveries)

Balance at

End of

Period

Valuation account for
  accounts receivable:

Year ended
  December 31, 2006

$

1,116

$

2,856

$


$

3,549

Year ended
  December 31, 2005

1,561

(396

)


1,116

Year ended
  December 31, 2004

1,388



1,561

Valuation accounts for
  inventories:

Year ended
  December 31, 2006

$

7,598

$

8,951

$

6,683

$

9,866

Year ended
  December 31, 2005

8,037

4,064

4,503

7,598

Year ended December 31,

6,238

5,653

3,854

8,037

See accompanying report of independent registered
public accounting firm.

Note:  2006
amounts include insurance receivable reserves of $2,307,000 in accounts
receivable. An additional reserve of $10,236,000 is included in other assets.

F-34

Index to Exhibits

3.1(i)

Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as
  amended.

3.1(ii)

Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended.

4.0

(1)

Specimen stock certificate representing Class A
  Common Stock.

4.1

(2)

Rights Agreement between the Registrant and Mellon
  Investor Services, as Rights Agent.

10.1

(3)

1997 Stock Option Plan. +

10.2

(4)

First Amendment to the 1997 Stock Option Plan. +

10.3

(4)

Second Amendment to the 1997 Stock Option Plan. +

10.4

(5)

Third Amendment to the 1997 Stock Option Plan. +

10.5

(6)

Amendment No. Four to the 1997 Stock Option Plan. +

10.6

(1)

Form of Indemnification Agreement between the
  Registrant and each of its directors.

10.7

(1)

Lease between the Registrant and Unique Building
  Corporation for the Registrant’s facility in Vernon Hills, Illinois, as
  amended.

10.8

(3)

Directors’ 1997 Stock Option Plan.+

10.9

Amendment to the lease between the Registrant and
  Unique Building Corporation for the Registrant’s facility in Vernon Hills,
  Illinois, dated April 1, 1993.

10.10

Amendment to the lease between the Registrant and
  Unique Building Corporation for the Registrant’s facility in Vernon Hills,
  Illinois, dated December 1, 1994.

10.11

(7)

Amendment to the lease between the Registrant and
  Unique Building Corporation for the Registrant’s facility in Vernon Hills,
  Illinois, dated June 1, 1996.

10.12

(7)

Amendment to the lease between the Registrant and
  Unique Building Corporation for the Registrant’s facility in Vernon Hills,
  Illinois, dated June 2, 1996.

10.13

(8)

Amendment to the lease between the Registrant and
  Unique Building Corporation for the Registrant’s facility in Vernon Hills,
  Illinois, dated as of July 1, 1999.

10.14

(9)

2002 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan. +

10.15

(9)

Amendment No. 1 to the 2002 Non-Employee Director
  Stock Option Plan. +

10.16

(10)

2005 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. +

10.17

(11)

Employment Agreement dated July 17, 1997 and
  Interoffice Memorandum dated January 27, 1997 between the Registrant and Charles
  R. Whitchurch. +

10.18

(11)

Employment Agreement between the Registrant and
  Veraje Anjargolian, dated April 1, 1997. +

10.19

(12)

Employment Agreement between the Registrant and Phil
  Gerskovich, dated March 10, 2005. +

10.20

(13)

Employment Agreement between the Registrant and
  Bruce Ralph, dated May 9, 2005. +

10.21

(4)

Form of Stock Option Agreement under the Zebra
  Technologies Corporation 1997 Stock Option Plan with respect to awards
  granted prior to February 6, 2006. +

10.22

(9)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under
  the Zebra Technologies Corporation 2002 Non-Employee Director Stock Option
  Plan, with respect to awards granted prior to February 8, 2006. +

10.23

(14)

Form of Stock Option Agreement under the Company’s
  1997 Stock Option Plan, with respect to awards granted on or after February
  6, 2006. +

10.24

(14)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under
  the Company’s 2002 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, with respect to
  awards granted on or after February 8, 2006. +

10.25

(15)

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under
  the Company’s 2006 Incentive Compensation Plan. +

10.26

(15)

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement under the
  Company’s 2006 Incentive Compensation Plan for retention grants to executive
  officers other than Messrs. Kaplan and Cless. +

10.27

(15)

Form of Special Separation Agreements between the
  Registrant and each of the Registrant’s executive officers other than Messrs.
  Kaplan and Cless. +

10.28

(16)

Settlement Agreement with Paxar Americas, Inc.,
  dated September 14, 2006.

10.29

(17)

2006 Incentive Compensation Plan. +

10.30

(18)

WhereNet Corp. 1997 Stock Option Plan.

10.31

(19)

2006 Management Bonus Plan. +

21.0

Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent
  registered public accounting firm.

23.2

Consent of KPMG LLP, independent registered public
  accounting firm.

31.1

Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a).

31.2

Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a).

32.1

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C Section 1350, as
  Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C Section 1350, as
  Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002