10-K


a04-2920_110k.htm

10-K

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS

PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 000-19406

Zebra
Technologies Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Delaware

36-2675536

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

333 Corporate Woods Parkway, Vernon Hills,
IL  60061

(Address of principal executive
offices)      (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area
code:

(847) 634-6700

Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Act:

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(g) of the Act:

Class
A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer
(as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).

Yes

ý

No

o

As of February 20, 2004, the aggregate market value of each of the
registrant’s Class A Common held by non-affiliates was approximately
$3,154,075,000. The closing price of the Class A Common Stock on February 20,
2004, as reported on the Nasdaq Stock Market, was $66.39 per share.

As of February 20, 2004, the registrant had outstanding 47,508,289
shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

Documents
Incorporated by Reference

Certain sections of the registrant’s Notice of Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on June 3, 2004, as described in the Cross-Reference Sheet and Table of
Contents included herewith, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
report.


ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX


PART I

References in this
document to “Zebra,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to Zebra Technologies
Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically states
otherwise.

Safe Harbor

Forward-looking
statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent
upon a variety of important factors which could cause actual results to differ
materially from those reflected in such forward looking statements. These
factors include market acceptance of Zebra’s printer and software products and
competitors’ product offerings. They also include the effect of market conditions
in North America and other geographic regions on our financial results. Profits
will be affected by our ability to control manufacturing and operating costs.
Because of a large investment portfolio, interest rate and financial market
conditions will also have an impact on results. Foreign exchange rates will
have an effect on financial results due to the large percentage of our
international sales. When used in this document and documents referenced, the
words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “will” and “expect” and similar
expressions as they relate to Zebra or its management are intended to identify
such forward-looking statements. We encourage readers of this report to review
the Risk Factors portion of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, which discusses additional risks. Zebra
undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed
circumstances or any other reason after the date of this annual report.

Item 1.

Business

The Company

Zebra Technologies is in the business of making products that enable
companies and organizations to improve productivity, deliver better customer
service and provide more effective security. We design, manufacture and support
a broad range of direct thermal and thermal transfer bar code label and receipt
printers, radio frequency identification (RFID) printer/encoders, card imaging
printers, and digital photo printers. We also sell related accessories and
support software. Manufacturers, service organizations, and governments
worldwide use our products in automatic identification, data collection and
personal identification applications.

We design our products to operate at the user’s location or on a mobile
basis to produce and dispense high-quality labels, plastic cards, and
photographs at the point of issuance on demand. The exceptional diversity of
applications using our bar code labeling and card imaging printer products is focused
in routing and tracking, transactions processing, and identification and
authentication. They include applications that require high levels of data
accuracy and where speed and reliability are critical. They also include
specialty printing for receipts and tickets where improved customer service and
productivity gains may be the primary reason for printing, rather than a
barcoding application. Plastic cards are used for secure, reliable personal
identification or access control. Digital photo printers are sold on an OEM
basis to professional photographers.

Applications for our technology span most industries and geographies.
They include inventory control, small package delivery, baggage handling,
automated warehousing, JIT (Just-In-Time) manufacturing, employee time and
attendance records, file management systems, hospital information systems,
medical specimen labeling, shop floor control, in-store product labeling,
employee ID cards, driver’s licenses, and access control systems. As of
December 31, 2003, management estimates that Zebra has sold more than 3,000,000
printers to users in approximately 100 countries.

We believe competitive forces on businesses worldwide to strengthen
security, reduce costs, improve quality, deliver better customer service, and
increase productivity support the growth of bar code labeling solutions and
specialty printing. Industry-mandated standardization for compliance labeling
is an important catalyst in the deployment of bar code systems. We also believe
that companies are adopting automatic identification systems that incorporate
barcoding for business improvement applications. Many of these applications
make increasing use of enterprise-wide resource planning (ERP) and other
process improvement systems in manufacturing and service organizations. Greater
emphasis on supply chain management, the drive to reduce errors in health care,
and heightened concern over safety and security will lead to increased use of
automatic identification systems. Still other applications are taking advantage
of recent advances in wireless and hand-held computing technologies.

Concern for safety and security and personal identification contribute
to demand for our card printer products. This concern has heightened interest
in systems that provide personal identification and access control, including
secure ID systems for


driver’s licenses, employee and visitor badges, national identification
cards, event passes, club membership cards, and keyless entry systems.

Acquisitions are an important part of Zebra’s growth strategy. Since
1998, we have made three acquisitions. On October 28, 1998, Zebra merged with
Eltron International, Inc., which manufactured and marketed low-cost direct
thermal and thermal transfer bar code label printers, card imaging printers,
and related accessories. We restated financial results for the periods prior to
the merger to reflect the merger as a pooling-of-interests transaction. On
April 3, 2000, Zebra acquired Comtec Information Systems, Inc. Comtec was a
privately held company that produced a complete line of mobile wireless thermal
printing solutions. On November 17, 2003, we acquired all of the outstanding
stock of Atlantek, Inc. Located in Wakefield, RI, Atlantek produced a variety
of thermal digital printers, including digital photo and card imaging printers.

Zebra completed its initial public offering in August 1991. We are
organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, and our principal offices
are located at 333 Corporate Woods Parkway, Vernon Hills, Illinois 60061. Our
main telephone number is (847) 634-6700 and our primary Internet Web site
address is www.zebra.com. You can find all of Zebra’s filings with  the SEC free of charge through the investor
page on this web site, immediately upon filing.

Products

Our broad line of computerized printers is used to produce bar code
labels, RFID “smart” labels, receipts and tags, plastic cards, and photographs.
We also sell related specialty bar code labeling materials, ink ribbons for bar
code and card printers, and bar code label design software. These products are
used to provide bar code labeling, personal identification, and specialty
printing solutions principally in the manufacturing, retail, service, and government
sectors of the economy. We work closely with distributors, resellers and end
users of our products to design and implement labeling solutions that meet
their technical demands. To achieve this flexibility, we provide our customers
with a broad selection of printer models, each of which can be configured for a
specific application. Additionally, we will select and, if necessary, create
appropriate labeling stock, ink ribbons and adhesives to suit a particular
application. In-house engineering personnel in software, mechanical, electronic
and chemical engineering participate in the creation and development of bar
code labeling solutions for particular applications.

Sales of hardware (bar code and card imaging printers and replacement
parts) totaled $409,144,000 in 2003, $360,185,000 in 2002, and $339,895,000 in
2001. These sales represented 76.3%, 75.7%, and 75.6% of net sales in 2003,
2002, and 2001, respectively.

Supplies sales were $98,519,000 in 2003, $87,981,000 in 2002, and
$85,266,000 in 2001 and represented 18.4%, 18.5%, and 18.9% of net sales,
respectively.

Bar Code Label and Receipt Printers

We produce the industry’s broadest range of on-demand thermal transfer
and direct thermal bar code label printers. Our printing systems include
hundreds of optional configurations that can be selected to meet particular
customer needs. We believe this breadth of product is a unique and significant
competitive strength, because it allows Zebra to satisfy the widest variety of
thermal printing applications.

Management believes that of the major printing technologies, which
include ink jet, laser and impact dot matrix, direct thermal and thermal
transfer are best suited for most bar code labeling applications. Thermal
transfer printing produces dark, solid blacks and sharply defined lines that
are important for printing readily scannable bar codes. These images can be
printed on a wide variety of labeling materials, which enable users to affix
bar code labels to virtually any object. This capability is very important in
the industrial and service sectors Zebra serves. Direct thermal printing is
best suited where simplicity, light weight and cost are important factors in
the application. Accordingly, this technology is found principally in Zebra’s
wireless and desktop units.

We offer 33 bar code printer models with numerous variations. At
December 31, 2003, our main printer product offerings were as follows:

Performance Tabletop
Printers.

Zebra
produces high-end printers targeted at applications requiring continuous
operation in high output, mission-critical settings. These units provide a wide
variety of optional configurations, features, print widths, speeds and dot
densities. We offer six models under the XiIII Plus Series line. List prices
range from $2,995 to $7,495.


RFID Printer/Encoders.

Zebra
also manufactures and markets a growing line of printer/encoders used for radio
frequency identification (RFID) applications. These units are used to print and
encode “smart labels” in a single pass. Smart labels are printable labels
embedded with an ultra-thin radio frequency transponder. Information encoded in
these transponders can then be read and modified by a radio frequency reader.
As of December 31, 2003, we offered the R-140 and R402 printer/encoders, which
have list prices of $5,695 for the R-140 and $1,695 for the R402. We also have
several other printer/encoder models under development. These units are
targeted at emerging supply chain applications in retail and government, among
others.

Mid-Range Tabletop
Printers.

We
offer five printer models designed for less demanding applications. These units
have fewer option configurations and features for a commensurate lower price.
Products in this category consist of the Zebra Stripe

â

,
S and Z Series as well as the TLP 2746e printers. List prices range from $1,495
to $2,295.

Desktop Printers.

Applications
with low volume suit Zebra’s desktop printers. We currently offer six desktop
models consisting of the Ht-146, LP/TLP 2844, LP/TLP 2844-Z, TLP 3842, TLP
3844-Z, and LP/TLP 2824 printers. List prices range from $495 to $995.

Mobile Printing
Solutions.

Zebra
makes 12 mobile printer models, which provide durability, light weight
and wireless connectivity interfaces. These printers print in 2-, 3- and 4-inch
widths and are marketed under the Cameo, QL, TR, PS and PA/PT lines. List
prices range from $575 to $4,795.

Print Engines.

Zebra’s
170PAX3 and 110PAX3 print engines are sold to manufacturers of high-speed automatic
label applicator systems.

In addition to their use in on-demand automatic identification
applications, our bar code label printers can also be used for on-site batch
production of custom bar code labels and other graphics. This capability
results in shorter lead times, reduced inventory and more flexibility than can
be provided with traditional off-site printing.

Card Imaging Printers

Zebra makes ten card printer models for printing national identity
cards, driver’s licenses, employee identification badges, smart cards,
on-demand access control cards, and customer loyalty cards. These cards can
typically be created in seconds for under one dollar each. Users can select
from a number of printer options, including monochrome and color printing, single-
and two-sided printing, lamination, and magnetic stripe and smart card
encoding. Bar codes, smart chips and magnetic stripe encoding can be used to
record such personal data as health records, financial transactions, security
access codes and vital statistics. We offer six “P” series and four “i” series
card imaging printers. Printers in the “i” series incorporate features that
automatically optimize printer settings for a given ribbon. The list prices for
all of Zebra’s card imaging printers range from $1,695 to $9,995.

Photo Printers

With the November 2003 acquisition of Atlantek, we began producing
digital photo printers. We currently manufacture a high-speed thermal printer
jointly developed with and marketed by Eastman Kodak as the Kodak ML500 Professional
Photo Printer. The ML500 can print 8x10 photographs in about 13 seconds and can
produce up to 270 8x10 prints per hour. It is designed for professional
photographers for event and in-studio printing. Digital photo printing is an
extension of our core thermal printing technology.

Supplies

Supplies products consist of stock and customized thermal labels, smart
labels, and tags, plastic cards, card laminates, and thermal transfer ribbons.
Zebra promotes the use of genuine Zebra brand supplies with its equipment.

Zebra fully supports its printers, resellers and end users with an
extensive line of superior quality, high performance supplies optimized to a
particular user’s needs. Supplies are chosen in consultation with the reseller
and end user based on the specific application, printer and environment in
which the labeling system must perform. In the case of bar code labeling
solutions, supplies also include proprietary ribbon and label formulations that
are designed to maximize printer performance and meet the most demanding end
user performance criteria. Factors such as adhesion, resistance to scratches,
smudges and abrasion and chemical and environmental exposures are all taken
into account when selecting the type of ribbon and labeling materials. The use
of supplies that are not carefully matched to specific printers can degrade
print speed and print quality.


Software

Label design and integration software is specifically designed to
optimize the performance of Zebra bar code label printers. Known as BAR-ONE

â

,
this software provides the capability to design and integrate sophisticated
labels from standalone or legacy applications through a powerful, easy-to-use
Windows

â

interface.

Our goal is to provide software that enables high levels of
connectivity to all major computer network and software systems. These networks
include Ethernet, 802.11 and Bluetooth™ wireless systems and various IBM

â

systems. Software systems include SAP

â

and other ERP systems, warehouse management systems (WMS), Windows, Unix

â

and Linux

â

. Under an agreement with Accelio
Corporation, a provider of electronic forms, workflow and output management
software applications, Zebra offers BAR-ONE with Accelio Present Central

â

(formerly JetForm Central™). This software package enables Zebra printers to
receive output directly from many of the popular software packages on the
market, including the increasingly used ERP software, without the need to write
costly software interfaces. Zebra also offers a BAR-ONE for SAP/R3, which
enables users of the SAP/R3 ERP system to print directly to Zebra printers
without the need for middleware. To expand the global applications for its
software and printers, we are developing multi-lingual capabilities in its
software and user interfaces.

The goal of improving connectivity has also led to the development and
introduction of ZebraLink. This multi-purpose software tool gives users the
ability to set up and control Zebra printers remotely using Web-enabled
devices. It also enables Zebra printers to provide real-time printer error and
status notification via e-mail to a wired or wireless device. In addition,
ZebraLink’s programming language, ZBI, can be used to control and interpret
incoming text and data streams. ZBI gives users the ability to configure Zebra
printers to interpret various non-Zebra printer based languages, as well as to
set up operations in which a bar code label printer is needed and eliminate a
computer hook-up.

Maintenance
Services

For bar code label and receipt printers, we
currently provide service at depot repair centers at its Vernon Hills,
Illinois, Camarillo, California, Warwick, Rhode Island, Preston, U.K., and
Singapore facilities. Zebra Authorized Service Providers (ZASP) also provide
repair services for most Zebra products at their locations. In addition, IBM,
Optimal Systems Services and National Service Center (NSC) provide on-site
repair services in the United States. We share the revenue for on-site service
contracts sold by IBM, Optimal and NSC for Zebra printing systems installed in
the United States, and with IBM in Europe. Outside of the United States,
Zebra’s resellers in each country may provide maintenance service, either
directly as ZASPs or through independent service agents. Zebra also provides
service and technical support assistance from in-house support personnel
located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore, who are
available by telephone hotline five days a week during regular local business
hours. Also, for most Zebra products, Zebra provides interactive technical
support via the Internet, which can be accessed through Zebra’s Web site,
www.zebra.com, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

In January 2004, we initiated activities to
substantially consolidate our North American depot repair services for bar code
printers in Vernon Hills, Illinois. Over the next 12-18 months, repair services
currently performed in Camarillo, California, and Warwick, Rhode Island, will
transfer to Vernon Hills. We are taking this action to improve customer service
by providing one service point of contact for all bar code printers. See Note
18 of the consolidated financial statements for details on the transition
costs.

The card printer depot repair facilities are
located in Camarillo, California, Preston, U.K., and Wakefield, Rhode Island.
IBM performs on-site repair services in the United States and Europe. Card
printer users can receive technical support assistance from in-house support
personnel located in the United States, the United Kingdom, Singapore and
France, who are available by telephone during regular business hours. In
addition, on-line support for card printers can be accessed through the Web
site, www.eltroncards.com, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

Warranties

All Zebra printing equipment is warranted against defects in material
and workmanship for up to one year. Zebra supplies are warranted against
defects in material and workmanship for their stated shelf life or twelve
months, whichever ends first. Defective equipment and supplies may be returned
for repair, replacement or refund during the applicable warranty periods.

Zebra’s Technology

Our products use thermal transfer, direct thermal and thermal dye
sublimation technologies. Each technology has characteristics that provide
specific benefits to the end user.


Thermal transfer printing is used in all performance and some
mid-range, desktop and portable bar code label printers, as well as high-speed
print engines. This technology creates an image by applying an electrically
heated printhead to a ribbon that releases ink onto labeling/ticketing media.
The benefits of thermal transfer printing include superior image quality, the
ability to print on a wide variety of smooth-surfaced materials, no requirement
for specially coated or otherwise specially formulated labeling/ticketing media
and the ability to use inks that are not viable with alternative printing
technologies.

Direct thermal printing is used in some mid-range, desktop and portable
printer products. Direct thermal printing creates an image by applying the
heated printhead directly to specially treated paper, which changes color when
heated. Direct thermal technology is preferable where image durability is less
critical and where the application does not require specialty-labeling
materials such as plastics or metal foils.

Our card imaging printers and digital photo printers incorporate
thermal dye sublimation for color printing. This capability allows for the
creation of personalized full color, photographic quality plastic cards and
high-quality photographs. Traditional photographic processes are both more
expensive and time consuming. We believe that personalized card applications
such as driver’s licenses, loyalty cards, school and work identification cards,
security access cards and financial transaction cards are well suited to this
technology. The growing acceptance of digital photography, over traditional
halide-based technology, offers growth opportunities for Zebra in certain areas
of photo printing.

Zebra’s printing systems incorporate Company-designed computer
hardware, electrical mechanisms and software, which operate the printing
functions of the system and communicate with the host computer. Zebra’s bar
code label printers operate using Zebra Programming Language (ZPL

â

),
Zebra Programming Language II (ZPL II

â

),
Eltron Programming Language (EPL) or Comtec Printer Control Language (CPCL),
each of which is a proprietary printer driver language. These languages are
compatible with virtually all computer operating systems, including UNIX,
MS/DOS

â

and Windows.

Zebra guarantees backward compatibility in ZPL and ZPL II to allow
users to replace older Zebra printers with newer equipment without costly
reprogramming of label design programs. This compatibility also allows users to
operate multiple Zebra printers in different applications using standardized
programs and to integrate these printers into a local area network. We believe
that ZPL and ZPL II give us a competitive advantage by ensuring compatibility
across a broad range of present and future printer products and by facilitating
system upgrades and customer loyalty to Zebra products. Some independent
software vendors have written label preparation programs with ZPL and ZPL II
drivers specifically for Zebra printers. ZPL and ZPL II label format programs
can be run on a personal computer with ordinary word processing programs,
making ZPL and ZPL II particularly adaptable to PC-based systems.

Users of Zebra’s instant-issuance card imaging printers typically
operate these printers with software programs designed and sold by independent
vendors.

Sales and Marketing

Sales.

We sell our products primarily
indirectly through distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), and original
equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We also sell our products directly to a select
number of designated accounts. For supplies, we also sell directly to end users
through the Internet and telesales operations. Distributors and VARs purchase,
stock and sell a variety of automatic identification components from different
manufacturers and customize systems for end-user applications using their
systems integration expertise. Because these sales channels provide specific
software, configuration, installation, integration and support services
required by end users within various market segments, these relationships allow
Zebra to reach end users throughout the world in a wide variety of industries.
Zebra experiences a minor amount of seasonality in sales, depending on the
geographic region and/or vertical market.

We
functionally classify our direct VARs as Premier Partners, Advanced Partners,
or Associate Partners, depending on their business competencies, depth and
breadth of their sales teams, customer support capabilities, contribution to
Zebra’s strategic goals, and commitment to Zebra. In addition, we offer VARs
the opportunity to earn certifications for mobile/wireless printers, supplies
and service. We also sell through distributors, which in turn sell to smaller
VARs. All VARs, as well as OEMs and systems integrators, provide customers with
a variety of automatic identification components including scanners,
accessories, applications software and systems integration expertise, and, in
the case of some OEMs, resell the products under their own brands as part of
their own product offering. We believe that the breadth of this indirect
channel network, both in terms of variety and geographic scope, enhances our
ability to compete.


In some
instances, we may designate a customer as a strategic account when purchases of
Zebra products reach specified levels and support requirements for the account
become highly customized. Zebra sales personnel, either alone or together with
our partners, manage these strategic accounts to ensure their needs, including
consistent support for projects and applications, are being met.

Sales to international customers comprised 45.5% of net sales in 2003,
43.2% of net sales in 2002, and 40.0% of net sales in 2001. We believe that
international sales have the long-term potential to grow faster than domestic
sales because of the lower penetration of bar code systems outside the United
States. As a result, the Company has invested resources to support our
international growth and currently operate facilities and sales offices, or has
representation, in 18 different countries.

Marketing.

Marketing operations encompass
marketing communications, product marketing, vertical marketing, market
research, alliance management and channel marketing functions. The product
marketing group identifies, evaluates and recommends new product opportunities
and manages product introductions, positioning and demand creation. Product
marketing also focuses on strategic planning and market definition and analyzes
Zebra’s competitive strengths and weaknesses.

The vertical marketing group works with reselling and non-reselling
partners to develop and promote application solutions that have significant
Zebra content. The vertical marketing group also focuses on industry trends,
participates in business development activities at the technical and
applications standards levels and provides subject matter expertise.

Alliance management directs a limited number of third party
relationships that are strategic to new demand creation for specific vertical
markets and/or specific applications.

The marketing communications group operates as an internal advertising,
event marketing, promotion, Internet marketing and public relations resource.
This group, working with advertising agencies and contractors, creates advertisements,
and brochures, manages trade show exhibits, maintains Zebra’s Web sites, and
places articles highlighting Zebra and applications of its products in the
trade, industry, business and consumer media.

The market research group is a strategic planning, research-oriented
group that focuses on market definition and analysis of our relative
competitive strengths and weaknesses. This group identifies and analyzes market
opportunities for current, planned and potential products and gathers and analyzes
competitive and market information.

The channel marketing group is responsible for the developing programs
to push and pull Zebra products through its network of distributors and Value
Added Resellers. This group also prepares application and product training
programs and on-line information resources, which are available to certified
channel partners around the world.

Customers

Zebra has sold more than 3,000,000 bar code label and card imaging
printers to customers in about 100 countries as of December 31, 2003.

Sales to ScanSource, Inc. accounted for 13.8% of net sales in 2003 and
13.6% in 2002. No customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales in 2001.

Production and
Manufacturing

We design our products to optimize product performance, quality, reliability,
durability and versatility. These designs combine cost-efficient materials,
sourcing and assembly methods with high standards of workmanship. We assemble
our products in-house largely on a configure-to-order basis using components
that have been sourced from around the world. We have the in-house capability
to produce mechanical and electronic assemblies and design many of our own
tools, fixtures and test equipment. Often, our manufacturing engineers
coordinate the development of new products with our new product engineers and
vendors. This collaboration increases manufacturing efficiency by specifying
and designing manufacturing processes and facilities simultaneously with
product design.

We buy prefabricated component parts and subassemblies for use in the
manufacture of our products. Critical subassemblies include printheads, power
supplies, integrated circuits, and stepper motors, which are obtained from
domestic and foreign suppliers at competitive prices. Purchase contracts
provide for price increases in the event of certain increases in the costs of


raw materials. We maintain several sources for our component parts and
subassemblies to reduce the risk of parts shortages or unavailability. We do
not currently believe that we face difficulties in obtaining an adequate supply
of these materials.

Research and
Development

Zebra had research and development expenditures of $31,759,000 in 2003,
$29,210,000 in 2002, and $28,184,000 in 2001. These expenditures amounted to
5.9%, 6.1%, and 6.3% of net sales for the corresponding periods. We devote
significant resources to developing new printing solutions for our target
markets and ensuring that our products maintain high levels of reliability and
efficient manufacturing.

Competition

Many companies are engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of
bar code label printers and card personalization solutions. We consider our
direct competition in bar code label and receipt printing to be producers of
on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal label printing systems and
supplies. We also compete, however, with companies engaged in the design,
manufacture and marketing of printing systems that use alternative
technologies, such as impact dot matrix, ink-jet and laser printing. Similarly,
we consider manufacturers of card personalization systems that are based on a
broad range of alternative technologies as competition.

Our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors.
These factors include the reliability, quality and reputation of the
manufacturer and its products; hardware and software innovations and
specifications; breadth of product offerings; information systems connectivity;
price; level of technical support; supplies and applications support offered by
the manufacturer; available distribution channels; and financial resources to
support new product design and innovation. We believe that Zebra presently
competes favorably with respect to these factors.

No single competitor competes across the entire breadth of our product
line. Significant competition, however, is faced in each product segment. For
low-cost desktop label printer products, our principal competitors are Argox;
Godex; Cognitive Solutions, a subsidiary of Axiohm Transaction Solutions; Tokyo
Electric Company (TEC); Taiwan Semiconductor; Microcom; Woosim; and Datamax. In
the mid-range printer market, our principal competitors are Datamax; UBI and
Intermec, subsidiaries of Unova; Monarch Marking Systems, a subsidiary of
Paxar; Sato; and TEC. Principal competition in the high end of the market
derives from Sato, TEC, Printronix, and Intermec. For print engines, the
principal competitor is Sato. For portable printers, the principal competitors
are Monarch Marking Systems and O’Neil
Product Development. The potential for greater competition is increasing, we
believe, as companies view mobile printing applications to be an attractive
market.

Several competitors manufacture card personalization equipment using
dye sublimation technology. These competitors include Nisca, Datacard, Fargo
Electronics, ColorX, Polaroid, MagiCard, Evolis, LogickaComp, Printherm, CIM,
NBS, Matica, Song Woo Electronics, and Victor Data Systems.

Dye-sublimation, the technology incorporated in our card printers, is
only one of several commercially available types of equipment used to
personalize cards. We also compete with companies that produce identification
cards using alternative technologies, which include ink-jet, thermal transfer,
embossing, film-based systems, encoders, laser engraving and large-scale
dye-sublimation printers. These card personalization technologies offer viable
alternatives to Zebra’s card printers and provide effective competition from a
variety of companies, many of which are substantially larger than Zebra,
including Canon, Hewlett-Packard, Hitachi, and Lexmark International. In
addition, service bureaus compete for end user business and provide an
alternative to the purchase of our card printing equipment and supplies.

Manufacturers also use dye-sublimation technology in their digital
photo printers. Companies participating in this area include Sony, Mitsubishi,
Copal, Shinko, Altech, Olmec, and Olympus. In addition, there are several other
companies that participate in producing photo printers using other
technologies. These companies include Hewlett-Packard, Xerox, Polaroid, and
Fuji.

Competition in the supplies business is diluted with numerous
competitors of various sizes depending on the geographic area.

Alternative Technologies

We believe that direct thermal and thermal transfer printing will be
the label and receipt printer technology of choice in Zebra’s target
applications for the foreseeable future. Among the many advantages of direct
thermal and thermal transfer printing is the ability to print high-resolution,
durable images on a wide variety of label materials at relatively low costs and
very high speeds compared with alternative printing technologies. We
continually assess competitive and complementary


methods of bar code printing and automatic identification. These
technologies include ink jet, laser, impact dot matrix, laser etching, and
RFID.

We cannot be sure that new technology will not supplant direct thermal
and thermal transfer printing for bar code labels and receipts, but we are not
aware of any developing technology that offers the advantages of direct thermal
and thermal transfer printing for our targeted label and receipt printer
applications. To complement thermal printing technology, we produce the
printer/encoders for printing and encoding “smart labels,” which are printable
labels embedded with an ultra-thin radio frequency transponder. Information
encoded in these transponders can then be read and modified by a radio
frequency reader. Our printer/encoders are targeted at emerging RFID
applications, where line-of-sight reading or scanning a label may not be
possible. We view RFID as a complementary technology to barcoding, offering
growth opportunities to Zebra as the technology becomes more widely adopted.

If other technologies were to evolve or become available to Zebra, it
is possible that those technologies would be incorporated into our products.
Alternatively, if such technologies were to evolve or become available to our
competitors, Zebra’s products may become obsolete. This obsolescence would have
a significant negative effect on Zebra’s business, financial position, results
of operations and cash flows.

Intellectual Property
Rights

Zebra relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, employee and
third party nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws and contractual rights to
establish and protect its proprietary rights in its products. We have and
actively protect several domestic and international trademarks. We hold 90
patents and have 46 patents pending pertaining to products. The duration of
these patents ranges from 14 to 20 years. The expiration of any individual
patent would not have a significant negative impact on our business.

Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may
be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or
to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use some technology and information
that we regard as proprietary. Moreover, the laws of some countries do not
afford Zebra the same protection to proprietary rights, as do United States
laws. There can be no assurance that legal protections relied upon by Zebra to
protect its proprietary position will be adequate. While Zebra’s intellectual
property is valuable and provides certain competitive advantages, we do not
believe that the legal protections afforded to our intellectual property are
fundamental to our success.

Other trademarks mentioned in this report are the property of their
respective holders and include IBM, a registered trademark of International
Business Machines; Kodak, a registered trademark of the Eastman Kodak; UNIX, a
registered trademark of UNIX Systems Laboratories; MS/DOS and Windows, registered
trademarks of Microsoft; SAP, a registered trademark of SAP AG; Linux, a
registered trademark of Linus Torvalds; and Accelio Present Central, a
registered trademark of Accelio. Bluetooth is a trademark owned by Bluetooth
SIG and used by Zebra under license.

Employees

As of February 25, 2004, Zebra employed approximately 2,200 persons.
None of these employees is a member of a union. We consider our employee
relations to be very good.


Item 2.

Properties

Zebra’s corporate headquarters are located in Vernon Hills, Illinois, a
northern suburb of Chicago. Zebra conducts its operations from a
custom-designed facility at this location, which provides approximately 225,000
square feet of space. Approximately 113,000 square feet have been allocated to
office and laboratory functions and 112,000 square feet to manufacturing and
warehousing. This facility was constructed in 1989 and expanded in 1993, 1995,
1996 and 1999. It is owned and leased to Zebra, under a lease terminating on
June 30, 2014, by Unique Building Corporation, a corporation owned in part by
Edward Kaplan and Gerhard Cless, both executive officers and directors of
Zebra.

Zebra’s major facilities as of December 31, 2003, are listed below:

Zebra leases various facilities around the world, which are dedicated
to administrative, research and sales functions. The amounts related to these
leases, solely or in aggregate, are not material to the consolidated financial
statements.

During 1999, Zebra
consolidated United Kingdom facilities, moving distribution of its Wokingham
and High Wycombe facilities to the Preston location, and transferring Wokingham
associates to the renovated High Wycombe location. The vacant Wokingham
facility totals 27,000 square feet and has a lease that expires in October
2010. Zebra is actively marketing the property, seeking to sublease it through
October 2010.  We believe that the
current rent is approximately equal to the amount we will receive from a
sublease. We have accrued for rent during an estimated 12-month marketing
period. This building was previously subleased through December 31, 2003.

Zebra has announced plans
to close its Varades, France facility in early 2004. See Note 18 for further
details related to the closing. Zebra France leases the Varades building under
a series of capital leases. It is our intention to exercise our option to
purchase the building under those capital leases, and then subsequently sell
the building. We believe that the resale value will be approximately equal to
the book value of the building.

We
also announced plans to consolidate our Warwick, Rhode Island, printer
manufacturing and repair service business into our Camarillo, California, and
Vernon Hills, Illinois, locations. The completion of that consolidation
activity will coincide with the expiration of the current lease term in April
2005. At that time, Zebra has a series of four additional two-year option
periods to continue the use of that facility. We will be evaluating our space
requirements in Rhode Island, and determining the appropriate course of action
during 2004. This action might include extending the current lease or
consolidating operations with the Wakefield, Rhode Island, facility in a new
location.


Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

On April 23, 2003, Paxar Americas,
Inc. (Paxar Americas) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Ohio against Zebra and certain of
its subsidiaries. Paxar Americas’ Complaint alleges that certain of Zebra’s
printer products infringe one or more of eight identified Paxar Americas
patents, although not each product is accused of infringing each patent. Zebra
has filed an Answer to Paxar Americas’ Complaint, denying Paxar Americas’
allegations of infringement and asserting several affirmative defenses,
including the invalidity of Paxar Americas’ asserted patent claims.

On November 21, 2003,
Zebra’s subsidiary, ZIH Corp. (ZIH), filed a Complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of Massachusetts against Paxar Corporation,
alleging that Paxar Corporation printers infringe ZIH’s U.S. Patent Nos.
5,813,343 and 5,860,753. Paxar Corporation answered ZIH’s Complaint, denying
infringement and seeking a declaratory judgment that ZIH’s patents-in-suit are
not infringed and are invalid and/or unenforceable. Paxar Corporation filed a
motion to transfer ZIH’s Massachusetts suit to Ohio federal court. ZIH opposed
Paxar Corporation’s motion to transfer, and the parties are awaiting the
Court’s ruling on the transfer motion.

On November 25, 2003,
Paxar Americas filed a Complaint against ZIH in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio, seeking a declaratory judgment that
the patents asserted by ZIH in its Massachusetts Complaint are not infringed and
are invalid and unenforceable. On December 17, 2003, Paxar Americas amended its
complaint to add Zebra Technologies Corporation as a defendant. The parties
have filed a motion to stay this action pending the Massachusetts District
Court’s ruling on Paxar Corporation’s motion to transfer. The parties have
agreed to file a motion to transfer this action to the Massachusetts District
Court if the Massachusetts District Court denies Paxar Corporation’s pending
motion to transfer.

The outcome of litigation
is inherently uncertain, particularly in cases such as these where
sophisticated factual issues must be assessed and complex technical issues must
be decided. As a result, we cannot accurately predict the outcome of these
lawsuits. In the event we are unsuccessful in our defense of Paxar Americas’
infringement claims, we could be liable for economic and other damages, and we
may be forced to incur ongoing licensing expenses or to change how we design,
manufacture and market our products. The patents that ZIH has asserted against
Paxar Corporation could be found invalid. We expect to incur substantial fees
to prosecute and defend these lawsuits. We are unable at this time to estimate
the range of the potential liability that would result from an unsuccessful defense,
and consistent with the requirements of SFAS No. 5,

Accounting for Contingencies,

no liability has been recorded
in Zebra’s consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2003.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.


PART II

Item 5.

Market
for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

Stock Information: Price Range and Common Stock

Our Class A Common Stock
is traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol ZBRA. The following table
shows the high and low trade prices for each quarter in 2003 and 2002, as
reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market. We adjusted all share prices for a 50%
stock dividend that was distributed on August 21, 2003. On July 1, 2003, all of
Zebra’s Class B Common Stock that was outstanding at the time converted into an
equal number of Class A Common Stock. As a result of this conversion, Zebra has
one class of common stock outstanding.

Source: The Nasdaq Stock Market

At February 20, 2004, the last reported price for the Class A Common
Stock was $66.39 per share, and there were 380 registered stockholders of
record for the Company’s Class A Common Stock.

Dividend Policy

Since our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any
cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. Zebra intends to retain
its earnings to finance future growth and therefore does not anticipate paying
any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.


Item 6.

Selected
Consolidated Financial Data

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
DATA

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEET DATA

(In thousands)


Item 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Results
of Operations: Fourth Quarter of 2003 versus Fourth Quarter of 2002, Year ended
December 31, 2003 versus Year ended December 31, 2002

Sales

Sales by product
category, percent change, and percent of total sales for the three months and
year ended December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002, were (in thousands, except
percentages):

Sales to customers by
geographic region, percent changes and percent of total sales for the three
months and year ended December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002, were (in
thousands, except percentages):

We have consistently
invested in sales, marketing and product development to support long-term sales
growth including:

•

Expanding
our geographic presence by placing Zebra representatives in high-growth
geographic markets to expand channel relationships and to support the work of
existing reseller partners. During 2002, we put new Zebra representatives in
Poland, Dubai, Russia, Australia, Brazil and Argentina. We also added
representatives in Mexico


and China during
2003. These additions are an important reason for the increase in the
Asia-Pacific and the Latin American regions during the fourth quarter and the
full year of 2003.

•

Increasing
our European representation in mobile and business development manager
resources in Germany, Italy, France, and Spain during 2003.

•

Building
infrastructure to deliver business improvement applications to high-growth
vertical markets. During 2003, we also added marketing resources to support
emerging radio frequency identification (RFID) opportunities.

New printer products
(defined as printers released within 18 months prior to the end of the
applicable fiscal period) accounted for 21.8% of printer sales in the fourth
quarter of 2003 and 2002. For the full year, new printer products accounted for
23.3% of printer sales in 2003, compared with 22.2% in 2002.

Our international sales
are denominated in multiple currencies, primarily the dollar, pound and euro,
which causes our reported sales to be subject to fluctuations based on changes
in currency rates. When significant currency rate fluctuations occur, we review
our pricing and make appropriate changes in order to maintain our competitive
position.

Since the third quarter of
2002, the dollar has weakened significantly against both the euro and pound. As
a result, our fourth quarter sales translated into dollars increased by
$6,253,000 or 4.9 percentage points compared to translating the same sales
using the exchange rates that prevailed a year ago. Competitive pricing
adjustments caused by the currency situation reduced sales by $3,590,000 or 2.8
percentage points. In total, the net increase related to exchange rate
fluctuations was $2,663,000 during the quarter.

For the full year of
2003, sales translated into dollars increased by $24,783,000 or 5.2 percentage
points compared to translating the same sales using the exchange rates that
prevailed in 2002. We adjusted our pricing to remain competitive in markets
experiencing currency strength against the dollar. These competitive pricing
adjustments reduced sales by $12,610,000 or 2.7 percentage points. In total,
the net increase related to exchange rate fluctuations was $12,173,000 during
2003.

Although management
cannot forecast the future direction of foreign exchange rate movements, if
rates remain near the levels experienced during 2003, Zebra may continue to
benefit from exchange rate gains during 2004. However, it is possible that a
continued weak dollar versus the pound and euro may cause our current pricing
to be uncompetitive and require price reductions. These reductions would
decrease the benefits of the current favorable exchange rates.

During 2003, we began a
program to hedge a portion of our forecasted euro-denominated sales, so that if
exchange rate trends reverse, we will still achieve some benefit from the
current favorable rates. See Note 14 to the financial statements for a more
detailed discussion of this hedging program.

Printer unit volumes and
average selling price information is summarized below:

For the fourth quarter of
2003, mobile printers accounted for 9.3 percentage points of the total 12.8%
volume increase. This increase is a result of more companies adopting technology
for wireless networks. The increase in the average unit selling prices was a
result of higher average prices for mid-range tabletop printers and print
engines, offset by the higher mobile printer volumes.

For the full year of
2003, the increase in printer volume was due to higher sales volume of desktop
and mobile printers similar to the increases for the fourth quarter. Average
unit selling price increases were related to increases in the average unit
selling prices of mid-range desktop printers, portable printers and print
engines. Average unit selling prices were also being reduced by the increased
volume of the lower priced mobile printers.


Gross
Profit

Gross profit information
is summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

The major contributors to
the margin improvement were:

•

Higher
capacity utilization

related to the higher sales volume,
representing $6,008,000 of the total gross profit increase for the fourth
quarter of 2003 and $17,417,000 for the full year.

•

Foreign
exchange rate movements and related pricing adjustments,

which we
estimate increased gross profit by $2,276,000 for the fourth quarter of 2003.
For the full year, gross profit is estimated to have been $10,900,000 higher
due to foreign exchange rate movements, net of related pricing adjustments.

•

Component
cost reductions

contributed
$2,255,000 to the margin improvement during the fourth quarter and $9,371,000
for the full year.

Selling
and Marketing Expenses

Selling and marketing expenses
are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

We continue to make
significant investments in demand-generating activities. During the fourth
quarter of 2003, increased selling and marketing expenses were primarily in
payroll and benefits. Other costs that increased during the fourth quarter were
advertising, publications and market research, travel and entertainment, and
demonstration units. Year to-date, in addition to increases in the items
mentioned above, we increased market development fund expenses. These increases
are largely the result of our focus on vertical market development and
international expansion.

Research
and Development Costs

Zebra is committed to a
long-term strategy of significant investment in product development. To
maintain and build our product pipeline, we made expenditures in research and
development, summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

Quarterly product
development expenses fluctuate widely depending on the status of ongoing
projects. For the fourth quarter of 2003, research and development expenses
increased because of an increase in payroll and benefits with related increases
in headcounts and increases in project expenses. Higher project expenses are
related to the reduction of expenses in the fourth quarter of 2002 of
$1,092,000 for third party funded engineering costs, which did not reoccur in
2003. This amount represents 16.4% of the total increase in research and
development expenses for the fourth quarter.

For the full year,
project expenses were up $1,669,000 with the majority of that increase related
to $1,542,000 in reductions related to third party funded engineering costs
that had occurred in 2002 but did not reoccur in 2003. In addition, payroll and
benefits were up $1,752,000 over 2002, but consulting expenses were down
$945,000.

We believe that there
will be long-term growth in the use of radio frequency identification (RFID) in
supply chain and other applications, and that Zebra is well positioned to
participate in that growth. We introduced new products that extend RFID technologies
into our bar code label printers, and we anticipate investing a larger portion
of our future R&D expenditures on the development of RFID printer/encoders.


General
and Administrative Expenses

General and administrative expenses are summarized in
the table below (in thousands, except percentages):

For the fourth quarter of 2003, general and
administrative expenses increased $721,000 and include $477,000 of increased
legal expenses, which was primarily related to litigation with Paxar described
in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. Other increases were
related to personnel costs.

For the full year of 2003, general and administrative
expenses include $596,000 of increased legal expenses related to:

•

Litigation
with Paxar

•

Increased
intellectual property work

•

International
activity

•

General
contract review.

In addition to legal expenses in 2003, we saw an
increase in director and officer liability insurance and administrative
personnel costs. A portion of these costs resulted from new compliance
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations.
Offsetting these increases was a decline in consulting expenses.

As a percentage of net sales, general and
administrative expenses declined, because we took actions to control costs,
including the compliance activities discussed above. As a result, our general
and administrative costs have grown slower than the rate of sales growth. We
expect that trend to continue.

Costs Related to Terminated Acquisitions
and Merger Costs

During the first quarter of 2002, we terminated the
acquisition agreement and tender offer in which Zebra would acquire all
outstanding shares of common stock (including associated rights to purchase
preferred stock) of Fargo Electronics, Inc. for $7.25 per share in cash. During
the time that the tender offer was active, we incurred legal, accounting and
other expenses related to the proposed acquisition that would have been treated
as part of the purchase price had the tender offer been completed. We expensed
$3,300,000 of these costs at the cancellation of the tender offer.

Exit
Costs

During the fourth quarter
of 2003, we announced a plan to close our engineering site in Varades, France.
This plan will be accounted for under SFAS No. 146,

Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.

Included
in operating expenses for the fourth quarter of 2003 and the full year are exit
costs, consisting of primarily severance, in the amount of $1,232,000.

During January 2004, we
announced plans to consolidate our Warwick, Rhode Island, printer manufacturing
and repair service business into our Camarillo, California and Vernon Hills,
Illinois locations. Although no costs have been accrued in the fourth quarter
of 2003, we anticipate that during 2004 we will incur additional expenses of
$1,648,000 of which approximately $400,000 will be incurred during the first
quarter. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.

Operating Income

Operating income is
summarized in the following table (in thousands, except percentages):

The increase in operating
income is attributable to the following factors:

•

Accelerated
sales growth compared to 2002,


•

Improved
gross margins resulting from increased overhead utilization,

•

Favorable
changes in foreign exchange rates for Zebra’s non-dollar denominated business,
and

•

Cost
controls that held operating expense growth slightly below the rate of sales
growth.

As a result of these
actions, operating income increased by 3.0 percentage points more than the rate
of sales growth during the fourth quarter, and 14.1 percentage points more than
the rate of sales growth for the full year.

Non-operating
Income and Expenses

Zebra’s non-operating
income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands):

Higher investment balances resulted in an increase in investment income
for the fourth quarter. While investment balances were higher in 2003,
year-to-date investment income decreased from last year, because 2002 results
included a $1,953,000 realized gain on the sale of 585,000 shares of Fargo
Electronics during the first quarter of 2002.

For the fourth quarter of 2003, we had the following two unusual items
that increased investment income in relation to the fourth quarter of 2002:

•

Interest income
of $422,000 was received, which was related to refunds of taxes from the
Internal Revenue Service research and experimentation credit and the State of
Illinois tax settlement.

•

Investment
income includes a $600,000 increase in realized gains from partnership
interests during the fourth quarter.

Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter
was 31.2%, compared with 35.0% for the same quarter last year. This rate is
lower than the 35.0% effective tax rate that Zebra has recorded since early
2002, because of the net effect of a nonrecurring tax item during the quarter.

During the fourth quarter, Zebra settled its
long-standing dispute with the Illinois Department of Revenue. We recorded a
decrease to income tax expense of $1,342,000, because our reserves for this tax
dispute exceeded the amount of the settlement. See Note 11 to the consolidated
financial statements for more details. Without the effect of this settlement,
our effective income tax rate would have been 35% for the quarter.

During the third quarter of 2003, we eliminated a
reserve related to research and experimentation tax credits that were claimed
and recorded a reduction to income tax expense of $1,947,000. During the first
two quarters of 2003, we filed refund applications totaling $1,947,000 with the
Internal Revenue Service and Departments of Revenue for Illinois and California
related to research and experimentation tax credits for 1998 to 2001. Because
of the uncertainty of receiving the credits, which require significant
subjective analysis, we established a 100% reserve against the contingent
receivable for the refunds during each of the first two quarters of 2003. In
September 2003 the IRS approved our refund applications. Because California and
Illinois law mirror the Federal Tax Code, we now expect to have those refunds
approved as well.

For 2003, the effective income tax rate was 32.6%
versus 35.4% for 2002. Excluding the two tax adjustments discussed above, our
effective tax rate would have been 35% for 2003. With the settlement of the
Illinois tax dispute, we anticipate our tax provision rate will be 34.75%
beginning in the first quarter of 2004.


Net Income

Zebra’s net income is summarized below (in thousands,
except per share amounts):


Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2002
and 2001

Sales

Sales
by product category, related percent changes and percent of total sales for
2002 and 2001 were as follows:

Sales to customers by
geographic region, related percent changes, and percent of total sales for 2002
and 2001 were as follows:

During 2002 and 2001, despite an economic downturn, Zebra implemented a
growth strategy including:

•

New Product
Introductions—During 2002, Zebra spent $29 million on new product development
activities, for salaries, benefits, consulting and legal services, market
research, and related activities. Fourteen new products or derivative products
were introduced during 2002, compared to 11 new products introduced during
2001.  Additionally, products introduced
within the 18-month period ended December 31, 2002, represented 22% of printer
sales for 2002.

•

Expanded
International Coverage—We opened six new sales offices during late 2001 through
2002, including Poland, Dubai, Russia, Australia, Brazil, and Argentina. We
believe international regions, particularly Asia-Pacific, Latin America and
Eastern Europe, hold significant growth potential.

•

New sales and
marketing programs—We organized sales and marketing efforts to support a sales
strategy that demonstrates the business benefits associated with implementing
bar code labeling and specialty printing solutions.

In North America, we recorded positive sales growth in the second,
third and fourth quarters of 2002, compared with the corresponding periods of
2001. Overall, however, the slow U.S. economy continued to limit sales growth
of bar code label and receipt printers to rates below our historical average.

All three of our international regions – Europe, Asia Pacific, and
Latin America – had record sales and contributed to the significant growth in
international sales in 2002. Increased numbers of Zebra representatives in
these regions, including the formation of a sales team in Europe for mobile
printing solutions in 2001, was an important factor in the growth of
international sales.

On a dollar-volume basis, the largest increase occurred in the European
region. The strength of the pound and the euro versus the dollar increased
sales for Zebra’s European region by approximately $5,565,000, compared with
exchange rates that prevailed during 2001.


Gross Profit

Gross profit information is summarized below (in thousands except
percentages)

Gross profit increased due to:

•

Higher
capacity utilization

related to the higher sales volume,
representing $8,514,800 of the total gross profit increase for 2002.

•

Foreign
exchange rate movements,

which we estimate increased gross profit by
$4,377,000 for 2002, compared with the exchange rates that prevailed during
2001.

•

Cost
reductions

, which
represented $3,798,000 of the gross profit increase for 2002.

Selling
and Marketing Expenses

Selling and marketing
expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

The increase in selling and marketing expenses resulted from:

•

Increased
headcount in selling and marketing staff, including the new international
offices opened in late 2001 and through 2002.

•

Performance-related
payroll expenses, specifically commissions and bonuses related to Zebra’s
growth in net sales.

•

Trade show,
travel and consulting expenses.

Research
and Development Costs

Research and development
costs are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

Printer products introduced over an 18-month period that ended December
31, 2002 accounted for approximately 22% of printer sales for 2002, compared
with 20% for the comparable period ending December 31, 2001. Higher project and
personnel expenses were partially offset by lower expenditures for consulting
services. We consider our ability to develop and introduce new products to be a
significant competitive factor. Accordingly, we expect to continue high levels
of expenditures on the development of a broad range of printers and related
items.


General and
Administrative Expenses

General and administrative expenses are summarized below (in thousands,
except percentages):

The increase in general and administrative expenses was due to:

•

Higher bonus
payments related to the growth in net sales and profits,

•

Consulting
expenses for the development and implementation of growth strategies,

•

Information
systems, and

•

Increased
insurance costs.

Amortization of Intangible Assets

During 2002, Zebra recorded $1,494,000 in amortization
of intangible assets, compared with $5,233,000 for 2001. During the first
quarter of 2002, Zebra implemented SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

,
which replaces the requirements to amortize intangible assets with indefinite
lives and goodwill with a requirement for an annual impairment test. SFAS No.
142 also establishes requirements for identifiable intangible assets. As a
result, during the first quarter of 2002 Zebra reclassified $21,272,000 of
intangible assets into goodwill, as such assets, which included assembled
workforce and customer lists, did not meet the criteria for recognition as an
asset apart from goodwill under SFAS No. 142. Operating income for 2001
includes $3,835,000 of amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets
that are not included in the 2002 results due to the implementation of SFAS No.
142.

Costs Related to Terminated
Acquisitions and Merger Costs

During 2002, we terminated the acquisition agreement
and tender offer in which Zebra would acquire all outstanding shares of common
stock (including associated rights to purchase preferred stock) of Fargo
Electronics, Inc. for $7.25 per share in cash. During the time that the tender
offer was active, we incurred legal, accounting and other expenses related to
the proposed acquisition that would have been treated as part of the purchase
price had the tender offer been completed. We expensed $3,300,000 of these
costs at the cancellation of the tender offer.

We incurred merger costs of $73,000 in 2002 and $1,838,000 in 2001.
These costs related to the acquisition of Comtec Information Systems in April
2000. These costs and the related activities were completed during 2002.

Operating Income

Operating income is
summarized in the following table (in thousands, except percentages):

The increase in operating
income is attributable to the following factors:

•

Sales
growth,

•

Improved
gross margins resulting from increased overhead utilization,

•

Favorable
changes in foreign exchange rates for Zebra’s non-dollar denominated business,
and

•

Cost
controls that held operating expense growth slightly below the rate of sales
growth.

As a result of these
actions, operating income increased by 4.4 percentage points more than the rate
of sales growth during 2002.


Non-operating
Income and Expenses

Zebra’s non-operating
income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands):

Favorable investment income was a result of a $1,953,000 pre-tax gain
on the sale of 585,000 shares of common stock of Fargo Electronics, in addition
to the absence of a $2,242,000 pre-tax write-down of a long-term investment
that occurred in 2001. The write-down occurred because the decline in the
asset’s value was viewed as other than temporary. This write-down reduced 2001
diluted earnings by $0.03 per share. Zebra recorded an additional write-down of
$193,000 for this investment in 2002.

Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate for 2002 was 35.4%
versus 36.0% in 2001. This change is the result of implementing tax
minimization strategies during the third quarter of 2002.

Net Income

Zebra’s net income is summarized below (in thousands,
except per share amounts):

Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management prepared the consolidated
financial statements of Zebra Technologies Corporation under accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles
require the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the
estimates, judgments and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the
information available.

Our estimates and assumptions affect the
reported amounts in our financial statements. The following accounting policies
comprise those that we believe are the most critical in understanding and
evaluating Zebra’s reported financial results.

Revenue Recognition

Zebra recognizes sales from product sales
at the time of shipment and passage of title, which are generally the same.
Other items that affect our revenue recognition include:

Customer returns

Customers
have the right to return products that do not function properly within a
limited time after delivery. We monitor and track product returns and record a
provision for the estimated future returns based on historical experience and
any notification received of pending returns. Returns have historically been
within expectations and the provisions established, but Zebra cannot guarantee
that it will continue to experience return rates consistent with historical
patterns. A significant increase in product failure rates and the resulting
credit returns could have a material effect on our operating results. A 10%
increase (decrease) in returns above historical levels would have decreased
(increased) operating income for the fourth quarter of 2003 by $132,000, or
0.4% of operating income.

Volume Rebates

Some
of our customers are offered incentive rebates based on the volume of product
they purchase from us over a quarter or year. These rebates are recorded as a
reduction to revenue. Each quarter, we estimate the amount of outstanding
volume rebates and establish a reserve for them based on shipment history.
Historically, actual volume rebates have been in line with our estimates.


Price Protection

Some
of our customers are offered price protection by Zebra as an incentive to carry
inventory of our product. These price protection plans provide that if we lower
prices, we will credit them for the price decrease on inventory they hold. We
estimate future payments under price protection programs quarterly and
establish a reserve, which is charged against revenue. Our customers typically
carry limited amounts of inventory, and Zebra infrequently lowers prices on
current products. As a result, the amounts paid under theses plans have been
minimal. We cannot guarantee that this minimal level will continue.

Software Revenue

We
sell three types of software and record revenue as follows:

•

Our
printers contain

embedded firmware,

which is part of the hardware purchase.
We consider the sale of this firmware to be incidental to the sale of the
printer and do not attribute any revenue to it.

•

We
sell a limited amount of

prepackaged,

or

off-the-shelf, software

for the creation of bar code labels
using our printers. There is no customization required to use this software,
and we have no post-shipment obligations on the software. Revenue is recognized
as this prepackaged software is shipped.

•

We
sometimes provide

custom software

as part of a printer installation project.
We bill custom software development services separate from the related
hardware. Revenue related to custom software is recognized once the custom
software development services have been completed and accepted by the customer.

Shipping and
Handling

We
charge our customers for shipping and handling services based upon our internal
price list for these items. The amounts billed to customers are recorded as
revenue when the product ships. Any costs incurred related to these services
are included in cost of sales.

Investments and Marketable Securities

Investments and
marketable securities at December 31, 2003, consisted of U.S. government
securities (44.8%), state and municipal bonds (45.4%), corporate bonds (4.6%),
partnership interests (4.4%) and equity securities (0.8%). We classify our debt
and marketable equity securities in one of three categories: trading, available-for-sale
or held-to-maturity. Trading securities are bought and held principally for the
purpose of selling them in the near term. Held-to-maturity securities are those
securities that Zebra has the ability and intent to hold until maturity. All securities
not included in trading or held-to-maturity are classified as
available-for-sale.

Trading and
available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value. Held-to-maturity
securities are recorded at amortized cost, adjusted for the amortization or
accretion of discounts or premiums. Unrealized holding gains and losses on
trading securities are included in earnings. Unrealized holding gains and
losses, net of the related tax effect, on available-for-sale securities are
excluded from earnings and are reported as a separate component of
stockholders’ equity until realized.

During the first quarter
of 2003, we changed the classification of certain of our investments and
marketable securities from the trading category to the available-for-sale
category, because we are no longer buying securities with the intent of selling
them in the near-term. In accordance with SFAS No. 115,

Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and Equity Securities,

the market value
as of the date of the change is now the new cost basis, and all future
unrealized gains and losses will be reflected in the accumulated other
comprehensive income section of stockholders’ equity in the balance sheet. This
change was made because of changes in our investment strategies and is consistent
with the classification of our investments and marketable securities as defined
in SFAS No. 115. Approximately $256,000,000 of our $

330,159

,000 of
investments was transferred from the trading category to the available-for-sale
category.

Accounts Receivable

We have standardized credit granting and
review policies and procedures for all customer accounts, including:

•

Credit
reviews of all new customer accounts,

•

Ongoing
credit evaluations of current customers,

•

Credit
limits and payment terms based on available credit information,

•

Adjustments
to credit limits based upon payment history and the customer’s current credit
worthiness, and

•

An
active collection effort by regional credit functions, reporting directly to
the corporate financial officers.


We reserve for estimated credit losses
based upon historical experience and specific customer collection issues. Over
the last three years, accounts receivable reserves varied from 1.7% to 2.9% of
total accounts receivable. Accounts receivable reserves as of December 31,
2003, were $1,388,000, or 1.7% of the balance due. We feel this reserve level
is appropriate considering the improved quality of the portfolio as of December
31, 2003. While credit losses have historically been within expectations and
the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that our credit loss experience
will continue to be consistent with historical experience.

Inventories

We value our inventories at the lower of
the actual cost to purchase or manufacture using the first-in, first-out (FIFO)
method, or the current estimated market value. We review inventory quantities
on hand and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on
forecasts of product demand and production requirements for the subsequent
twelve months.

A significant increase in the demand for
Zebra’s products could result in a short-term increase in the cost of inventory
purchases; however, this would be offset by improved overhead utilization
resulting from the additional demand. A significant decrease in demand could
result in an increase in excess inventory quantities on hand.

Our forecasted product demand may prove to
be inaccurate, in which case the provision required for excess and obsolete
inventory may be understated or overstated. If inventories were determined to
be overvalued, we would recognize such costs in cost of goods sold at the time
of such determination. We make every effort to ensure the accuracy of our
forecasts of product demand; however, any significant unanticipated changes in
demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the
value of inventories and reported operating results.

Over the last three years, our reserves for excess and obsolete
inventories have ranged from 10.1% to 13.1% of gross inventory. As of December
31, 2003, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories were $6,408,000, or
13.1% of gross inventory. Reserves increased during 2003 due to products which
are in the process of being discontinued.

Valuation
of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill

We
test the impairment of identifiable intangibles and goodwill each year or
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value
may not be recoverable. We completed our last assessment during June 2003.

We
evaluate the impairment of other long-lived assets whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.

Factors
considered that may trigger an impairment review consist of:

•

Significant underperformance
relative to expected historical or projected future operating results

•

Significant changes in the
manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business

•

Significant negative
industry or economic trends

•

Significant decline in
Zebra’s stock price for a sustained period

•

Significant decline in
market capitalization relative to net book value

If we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment
have occurred, we measure impairment based on projected discounted cash flows
using a discount rate that incorporates the risk inherent in the cash flows.
Net intangible assets, long-lived assets and goodwill amounted to $111,242,000
as of December 31, 2003.

Contingencies

We recorded an estimated liability related to contingencies based on
our estimates of the probable outcomes. Quarterly, we assess the potential
liability related to pending litigation, tax audits and other contingencies and
confirm or revise estimates and reserves as appropriate.

On April 23, 2003, Paxar Americas, Inc. (Paxar Americas) filed a patent
infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Ohio against Zebra and certain of its subsidiaries. Paxar Americas’
Complaint alleges that certain of Zebra’s printer products infringe one or more
of eight identified Paxar Americas patents, although not each product is
accused of infringing each patent. Zebra has filed an Answer to Paxar Americas’
Complaint, denying Paxar Americas’ allegations of infringement and asserting
several affirmative defenses, including the invalidity of Paxar Americas’
asserted patent claims.


On November 21, 2003, ZIH Corp. (ZIH) filed a Complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of Massachusetts against Paxar Corporation,
alleging that Paxar Corporation printers infringe ZIH’s U.S. Patent Nos.
5,813,343 and 5,860,753. Paxar Corporation answered ZIH’s Complaint, denying
infringement and seeking a declaratory judgment that ZIH’s patents-in-suit are
not infringed and are invalid and/or unenforceable. Paxar Corporation filed a
motion to transfer ZIH’s Massachusetts suit to Ohio federal court. ZIH opposed
Paxar Corporation’s motion to transfer, and the parties are awaiting the
Court’s ruling on the transfer motion.

On November 25, 2003, Paxar Americas filed a Complaint against ZIH in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, seeking a
declaratory judgment that the patents asserted by ZIH in its Massachusetts
Complaint are not infringed and are invalid and unenforceable. On December 17,
2003, Paxar Americas amended its complaint to add Zebra Technologies
Corporation as a defendant. The parties have filed a motion to stay this action
pending the Massachusetts District Court’s ruling on Paxar Corporation’s motion
to transfer. The parties have agreed to file a motion to transfer this action
to the Massachusetts District Court if the Massachusetts District Court denies
Paxar Corporation’s pending motion to transfer.

We are unable at this time to estimate the range of the potential
liability that would result from an unsuccessful defense, and consistent with
the requirements of SFAS No. 5,

Accounting
for Contingencies,

no liability has been recorded in Zebra’s
consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2003.

Stock-Based
Compensation

As of December 31, 2003, Zebra had three
stock-based compensation

plans available for future grants. We account for those plans under the recognition
and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees,

and related
Interpretations. No stock-based compensation cost is reflected in net income,
as all options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal to the
market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. The following
table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if we had
applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting
for Stock-based Compensation,

to stock-based compensation (in thousands, except per share amounts):

Expectations

During our quarterly conference call on February 18, 2004, we provided
net sales and earnings guidance for the first quarter of 2004 as follows
(amounts in thousands, except per share data):

The effective tax rate is expected to be 34.75% of income before income
taxes.


Liquidity and Capital Resources

Zebra continued to generate cash well in excess of its
operating requirements. As a result, Zebra’s cash and investment balances have
grown over time. As of December 31, 2003, Zebra had $449,964,000 in cash, cash
equivalents, investments and marketable securities, compared with $348,577,000
at December 31, 2002. Factors affecting cash and investment balances during
2003 include:

•

Operations
provided a net cash increase of $109,144,000 primarily from net income.

•

Accounts
receivable increased $5,141,000 (net of the effect of foreign currency
translation adjustment) because of higher sales.

•

Inventories
increased $1,659,000, net of foreign currency translation adjustment. This is
due to higher sales offset by improvements in inventory utilization. Compared
to the same period a year ago, inventory turns increased slightly to 6.8 from
6.7.

•

Other
assets decreased primarily due to the receipt of tax protest deposits returned
from the State of Illinois and a decrease in the value of the foreign exchange
forward contracts, but these decreases are offset by increases in long-term
investments.

•

With
the effect of foreign currency translation adjustment being the predominant
cause, accounts payable decreased by $3,156,000.

•

Accrued
expenses, net of the effect of foreign currency translation adjustment,
increased due to higher payroll accruals and unearned revenue.

•

Taxes
payable decreased $962,000 because of the timing of tax payments and the
settlement of the Illinois tax matter offset by increased profits. In addition,
our effective income tax rate decreased to 32.6% in 2003 from 35.4% in 2002.

•

Purchases
of property and equipment totaled $8,407,000.

•

Stock
option exercises contributed $17,620,000.

Zebra’s contractual obligations as of December 31,
2003 were:

Purchase obligations are for purchases made in the
normal course of business to meet operational requirements, primarily raw
materials.

Management believes that existing capital resources
and funds generated from operations are sufficient to finance anticipated
capital requirements. It is our intention to actively pursue opportunities to
acquire other businesses.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

In January
2003, the FASB issued FIN 46,

Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities.

FIN 46 requires us to consolidate a
variable interest entity (VIE) if we have a majority of the risks, rewards or
both of that entity. FIN 46 will be effective for most VIEs beginning in the
fourth quarter of 2003. Zebra has no investments in variable interest entities;
therefore, FIN 46 has no effect on our financial statements.

In December
2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148,

Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure,

amending
SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation

, to provide alternative transition methods for an
entity that voluntarily changes to the fair value based method of accounting
for stock-based employee compensation. Zebra does not currently intend to make
this change.

In April 2003,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 149,

Amendment of
Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

. SFAS
No. 149 clarifies when a contract with an initial net investment meets the
characteristics of a derivative and


when a
derivative contains a financing component that warrants special reporting in
the statements of cash flows. SFAS No. 149 is generally effective for contracts
entered into or modified after June 30, 2003, and had no impact on Zebra’s
financial position or results of operations.

In May 2003,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 150,

Accounting for
Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and
Equity

. SFAS No. 150 sets standards for classification and
measurement by an issuer of financial instruments with characteristics of both
liabilities and equity. It requires treating these instruments as a liability
(or an asset in some circumstances) because the financial instrument is an
obligation of the issuer. Zebra has issued no financial instruments with these
characteristics, and SFAS No. 150 had no effect on our financial statements.

Risk Factors

Investors should carefully consider the risks,
uncertainties and other factors described below, as well as other disclosures
in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s
business, financial condition, operating results, and growth prospects.

Zebra
could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including
unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could
also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. Proposed
acquisitions that are not consummated may result in the write-off of certain
acquisition costs.

Zebra may acquire or make investments in other
businesses, technologies, services or products. The process of integrating any
acquired business, technology, service or product into operations may result in
unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired
company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which
could otherwise be available for ongoing development of the business. The
expected benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Moreover, Zebra may
be unable to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully.
Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity
securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization
expenses. To the extent that a proposed acquisition is not consummated, Zebra
may be required to write off certain costs associated with the acquisition,
which could be significant.

Zebra may
not be able to continue to develop products to address user needs effectively
in an industry characterized by rapid technological change.

To be successful, Zebra must adapt to rapidly changing
technological and application needs by continually improving its products as
well as introducing new products and services to address user demands.

Zebra’s industry is characterized by:

•

Rapidly changing technology

•

Evolving industry standards

•

Frequent new product and service
introductions

•

Evolving distribution channels

•

Changing customer demands

Future success will depend on Zebra’s ability to adapt
in this rapidly evolving environment. Zebra could incur substantial costs if it
has to modify its business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to
adapt to these changes.

Zebra
competes in a highly competitive market, which is likely to become more
competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging
technology and changes in customer requirements.

Zebra faces significant competition in developing and
selling its systems. Principal competitors have substantial marketing,
financial, development and personnel resources. To remain competitive, Zebra
believes it must continue to provide:

•

Technologically advanced systems that
satisfy the user demands,

•

Superior customer service,

•

High levels of quality and reliability,
and

•

Dependable and efficient distribution
networks.

Zebra cannot assure it will be able to compete
successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in
printers or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins
and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and
development, sales and marketing and customer support. Some competitors may
make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with
suppliers or companies that produce complementary products. Any of these
factors could reduce Zebra’s earnings.


The
inability to protect intellectual property could harm Zebra’s reputation, and
its competitive position may be materially damaged.

Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides
Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Copyrights, patents, trade secrets
and contracts are used to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these
precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy aspects of Zebra’s
products or, without authorization, to obtain and use information which Zebra
regards as trade secrets.

Zebra
sells a significant portion of its products internationally and purchases
important components from foreign suppliers. These circumstances create a
number of risks.

Zebra sells a significant amount of its products to
customers outside the United States. Shipments to international customers are
expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. Risks
associated with sales and purchases outside the United States include:

•

Fluctuating foreign currency rates could
restrict sales, or increase costs of purchasing, in foreign countries.

•

Foreign governments may impose burdensome
tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions.

•

Political and economic instability may
reduce demand for our products, or put our foreign assets at risk.

•

Restrictions on the export or import of
technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from
certain markets.

•

Potentially limited intellectual property
protection in certain countries, such as China, may limit recourse against
infringing products or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in certain
geographic territories.

•

Staffing and managing international
operations may be unusually difficult.

•

Zebra may not be able to control
international distributors working on its behalf.

Economic
factors, which are outside Zebra’s control, could lead to deterioration in the
quality of Zebra’s accounts receivables.

Zebra sells its products to customers in the United
States and several other countries around the world. Sales are typically made
on unsecured credit terms, which are generally consistent with the prevailing
business practices in a given country. A deterioration of economic or political
conditions in a country could impair Zebra’s ability to collect on receivables
in the affected country.

Infringement
on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra at a competitive
disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly.

Third parties may claim that Zebra violated their
intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third party’s
patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from
operating its business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to
obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible,
to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could
result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel.

Zebra
depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract
and retain other key personnel.

Future success of Zebra is substantially dependent on
the continued service and continuing contributions of senior management and
other key personnel. The loss of the service of any executive officer or other
key employees could adversely affect business. Zebra has no long-term
employment agreements with key personnel 
and maintains minimal key man life insurance policies on its key
employees.

The ability to attract, retain and motivate highly
skilled employees is important to Zebra’s long-term success. Competition for
personnel in Zebra’s industry is intense, and Zebra may be unable to retain key
employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in
the future.

Terrorist
attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect
Zebra’s stock price, operations, and profitability.

The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United
States on September 11, 2001 caused major instability in the U.S. and other
financial markets. Possible further acts of terrorism and current and future
war risks could have a similar impact. The United States continues to take
military action against terrorism and is currently engaged in a costly
occupation of Iraq. These events may lead to additional armed hostilities or to
further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or
elsewhere, which may further contribute to economic instability. Any such
attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in


financial markets and could directly, or indirectly
through reduced demand, negatively affect Zebra’s facilities and operations or
those of its customers or suppliers.

Taxing
authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves.

Zebra operates in multiple tax jurisdictions in the
United States and worldwide, and uses strategies to minimize its tax expense.
Local tax authorities may challenge these tax positions from time to time.
Adverse outcomes in these situations may exceed Zebra’s reserves for tax
payments and may increase Zebra’s effective tax rate.


Item 7A

.  Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

Zebra is exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates because of
our large investment portfolio. As stated in our written investment policy, the
investment portfolio is viewed as a strategic resource that will be managed to
achieve above market rates of return in exchange for accepting a prudent amount
of incremental risk, which includes the risk of interest rate movements. Risk
tolerance is constrained by an overriding objective to preserve capital across
each quarterly reporting cycle.

Zebra mitigates interest rate risk with an investment policy that
requires the use of outside professional investment managers, investment
liquidity and broad diversification across investment strategies, and which
limits the types of investments that may be made. Moreover, the policy requires
due diligence of each investment manager both before employment and on an
ongoing basis.

The following table sets forth the impact of a one-percentage point
movement in interest rates on the value of Zebra’s investment portfolio as of
December 31, 2003 (in thousands, except per share data).

Interest rate sensitive instruments

Effect on

Pretax

Income

Effect on

Diluted EPS

(after tax)

+1 percentage point movement

$

(4,976

)

$

(0.07

)

-1 percentage point movement

$

4,976

$

0.07

Foreign Exchange Risk

We conduct business in
approximately 100 countries throughout the world and, therefore, are exposed to
risk based on movements in foreign exchange rates. We generally invoice
customers in their local currency and have a resulting foreign currency
denominated revenue and accounts receivable. We also purchase certain raw
materials and other items in foreign currencies.  We manage these risks using derivative financial instruments.

Hedging
of Net Assets

We use forward contracts
and options to manage exposure related to our pound and euro denominated net
assets. We record gains and losses on these contracts and options in income
each quarter along with the translation gains and losses related to our net
euro asset position, which would ordinarily offset each other. Summary
financial information related to these activities follows (in thousands):


Hedging
of Anticipated Sales

During the second quarter
of 2003, we began a program to manage the exchange rate risk of anticipated
euro denominated sales using forward contracts and designated these contracts
as cash flow hedges. Gains and losses on these contracts are deferred in other
comprehensive income until the contracts are settled and the hedged sales are
realized, at which time the deferred gains or losses will be reported as an
increase or decrease to sales. Summary financial information related to the
cash flow hedges of future revenues follows (in thousands, except percentages):

The following table sets forth the impact of a one-percentage point
movement in the dollar/pound and dollar/euro rates measured as if Zebra did

not

engage in the selective hedging practices described above. It is based on the
dollar/euro and dollar/pound exchange rates and euro and pound denominated
assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2003 (in thousands, except per share
data).

Foreign exchange

Effect on

Pretax

Income

Effect on

Diluted EPS

(after tax)

Dollar/pound

$


$

0.00

Dollar/euro

$


$

0.00

Equity Price Risk

From time to time, Zebra has taken direct equity positions in
companies. These investments relate to potential acquisitions and other
strategic business opportunities. To the extent that it has a direct investment
in the equity securities of another company, Zebra is exposed to the risks
associated with such investments.

Zebra currently employs four investment managers, two of which manage
portfolios of investment funds (i.e., fund of funds). These investment funds
use a variety of investment strategies, some of which involve the use of equity
securities. Each investment manager’s portfolio is designed to be market
neutral, although an individual fund within a portfolio may be exposed to
market risk. By policy, management limits the amount of Zebra’s investments in
alternative investment strategies to a maximum of 20% of the total investment
portfolio, with no single investment exceeding $12,000,000.

Zebra utilizes a “Value-at-Risk” (VaR) model to determine the maximum
potential one-day loss in the fair value of its interest rate, foreign exchange
and equity price sensitive instruments.

The following table sets forth the impact of a one-percentage point
change in the value of all equity positions held by Zebra’s investment managers
(in thousands, per share data).

Equity price sensitive instruments

Effect on

Pretax

Income

Effect on

Diluted EPS

(after tax)

+1 percentage point movement

$


$

0.00

-1 percentage point movement

$

(189

)

$

(0.00

)


Item

.

Financial
Statements and Supplemental Data

The financial statements
and schedule of the Company are annexed to this Report as pages F-2 through
F-23. An index to such materials appears on page F-1.

Item

.

Changes
in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures

Not applicable.

Item 9A

.

Controls
and Procedures

Zebra’s management is responsible for designing and
implementing disclosure controls and procedures to provide reasonable (not
absolute) assurances that desired control objectives are achieved including:

•

Filing
with the SEC all required disclosures within the time limits specified by the
SEC.

•

Providing
all material information to our management, including the CEO and CFO, to
enable them to make timely decisions about required disclosures.

When designing and evaluating controls and procedures,
we make assumptions about the likelihood of future events. At the same time, we
make judgments about the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and
procedures. We cannot assure that this design will succeed in achieving its
stated goals under all potential future conditions. Similarly, we cannot assure
that our evaluation of controls will detect all control issues or instances of
fraud, if any.

We completed our review
of disclosure controls and procedures under the supervision of the Disclosure
Committee, and with the participation of management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based on this review, the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of December 31,
2003 our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide
reasonable assurance that reports are filed or submitted within the time limits
specified by the SEC, and that information is accumulated and communicated to
management to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. There was
not any change in Zebra’s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during 2003 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect Zebra’s internal control over financial reporting.


PART III

Item
10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

We have adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to
Zebra’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Vice President
and Controller. The Code of Ethics is posted on the investor page of Zebra’s
Internet Web site, www.zebra.com,
and is available for download.

All other information in response to this item is
incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement sections entitled “Election
of Directors” and “Executive Officers.”

Item
11.   Executive Compensation

The information in response to this item is
incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement section entitled “Executive
Compensation and Certain Transactions.”

Item
12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

The information in response to this item is
incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement section entitled “Security
Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity Compensation
Plan Information.”

Item
13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information in response to this item is
incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement section entitled “Executive
Compensation and Certain Transactions.”

Item 14.

Principal
Accounting Fees and Services

The information in response to
this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement section
entitled “Fees of Independent Auditors.”


PART
IV

Item 15

.   Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

The financial statements and
schedule filed as part of this report are listed in the accompanying Index to
Financial Statements and Schedule. The exhibits filed as a part of this report
are listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits.

The Company filed no Current
Report on Form 8-K during the fourth quarter of 2003.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 25th day of
February 2004.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of
1934, the Report has been signed below by the following persons in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.


Index to Exhibits



ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

All
other financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not applicable
or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements
or notes thereto.

F-1

Independent Auditors’
Report

The Board of Directors and
Stockholders

Zebra
Technologies Corporation:

We have audited
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Zebra Technologies Corporation
and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003.
In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also
have audited the consolidated financial statement schedule of valuation and
qualifying accounts. These consolidated financial statements and the
consolidated financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and the consolidated financial statement
schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our
audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion,
the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Zebra Technologies Corporation and
Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the related
consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.

F-2

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE
SHEETS

(Amounts in thousands, except share and per
share data)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-3

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)

See accompanying notes to
consolidated financial statements.

F-4

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Amounts in thousands)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-5

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(Dollars in thousands)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-6

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Amounts in thousands)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-7

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 Description of Business

Zebra
Technologies Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (Zebra) design,
manufacture, sell and support a broad range of direct thermal and thermal
transfer bar code label and receipt printers, radio frequency identification
printer/encoders, card imaging printers, digital photo printers and related
accessories and support software. These products are used principally in
automatic identification (auto ID), data collection and personal identification
applications and are distributed world-wide through a network of resellers,
distributors and end users representing a wide cross-section of industrial,
service and government organizations.

Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies

Principles of Consolidation.

These
consolidated financial statements were prepared on a consolidated basis to
include the accounts of Zebra and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant
inter-company accounts, transactions and unrealized profit were eliminated in
consolidation.

Use of Estimates.

These
consolidated financial statements were prepared using estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities as the date of the consolidated financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash
and Cash Equivalents.

Cash consists primarily of deposits
with banks. In addition, Zebra considers highly liquid short-term investments
with original maturities of less than seven days to be cash equivalents.

Investments and Marketable Securities.

Investments
and marketable securities at December 31, 2003, consisted of U.S. government
securities, state and municipal bonds, partnership interests and equity
securities, which are held indirectly in diversified funds actively managed by
investment professionals. Zebra classifies its debt and marketable equity
securities in one of three categories: trading, available-for-sale or
held-to-maturity. Trading securities are bought and held principally for the
purpose of selling them in the near term. Held-to-maturity securities are those
securities that Zebra has the ability and intent to hold until maturity. All
securities not included in trading or held-to-maturity are classified as
available-for-sale.

Trading and available-for-sale
securities are recorded at fair value. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded
at amortized cost, adjusted for the amortization or accretion of discounts or
premiums. Unrealized holding gains and losses on trading securities are
included in earnings. Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related
tax effect, on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and are
reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until realized.

Inventories.

Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost or market, and cost is determined by the
first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.

Property and Equipment.

Property
and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization is computed
primarily using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
various classes of property and equipment, which are 30 years for buildings and
range from 3 to 10 years for other property. Property and equipment held under
capital leases is amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter of
the lease term or estimated useful life of the asset.

Income Taxes.

Zebra
accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Accordingly,
deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying
amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
period that includes the enactment date.

F-8

Intangible Assets.

Goodwill
represents the unamortized excess of the cost of acquiring a business over the
fair values of the net assets received at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is
no longer being amortized as required by SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

.

Other intangible assets consist
primarily of current technology and customer relationships. These assets are
recorded at cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over 5 to 8 years.
Accumulated amortization for these other intangible assets was $6,197,000 and
$3,865,000 at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Revenue Recognition

.
Revenue includes sales of hardware, supplies, software and services (including
repair services, extended service contracts, and professional services).
Product revenue is recognized when product has been shipped, risk of loss has
passed to the purchaser, and Zebra has fulfilled all of its obligations. We
provide for an estimate of product returns and doubtful accounts based on
historical experience. Revenue related to extended warranty and service
contracts is recorded as deferred income and recognized over the life of the
contract. Professional services revenue is recorded when performed. Revenue
from multiple element arrangements is allocated to the various elements based on
the relative fair value of the elements.

Zebra records payments to
resellers of its product as reductions to revenue unless these payments meet
the requirements for operating expense treatment under EITF 01-09

Accounting
for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the
Vendor’s Products).

See the market development funds accounting
policy for further details.

Revenue includes all customer
billings for shipping and handling charges. The related costs of shipping and
handling revenue are recorded as cost of goods sold.

Research and Development Costs.

Research
and development costs are expensed as incurred. These costs include:

•

Salaries,
benefits, and other R&D personnel related costs

•

Consulting and
other outside services used in the R&D process

•

Engineering
supplies

•

Engineering
related information systems costs

•

Allocation of
building and related costs

From time to time, Zebra will
provide engineering and development services to third parties on a contract
basis. Zebra does not guarantee the outcome of this research and does not
retain any obligation to repay third-party funding received for these contract
services. Since these services are not part of our standard product offering,
we treat payments received under these arrangements as reductions to research
and development costs.

Advertising.

Advertising
costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expenses for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 totaled $3,721,000, $3,965,000 and $4,405,000,
respectively.

Market Development Funds.

Zebra
makes market development funds available to its resellers to support demand
generation activity by the resellers. These funds require the reseller to
provide specific services or benefits to Zebra and substantiate the fair value
of such. Zebra reimburses resellers for agreed activities up to the fair value
of the benefit received by Zebra. These payments are treated as marketing costs
consistent with the requirements of EITF 01-9

, Accounting for Consideration Given by
a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products).

Any
payments to resellers that do not meet these requirements are recorded as
reductions to revenue.

F-9

Warranty.

Zebra
provides warranty coverage of up to one year on printers against defects in
material and workmanship. A provision for warranty expense is recorded at the
time of shipment and adjusted quarterly based on historical warranty
experience. The following is a summary of Zebra’s accrued warranty obligation
during the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002.

Fair Value of Financial instruments.

Zebra
estimates the fair value of its financial instruments as follows:

Stock-based Compensation.

At December 31, 2003, Zebra has three
stock-based compensation plans, which are described more fully in Note 3. Zebra
accounts for those plans under the recognition and measurement principles of
APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,

and related Interpretations. No stock-based
compensation cost is reflected in net income, as all options granted under
those plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying
common stock on the date of grant. The following table illustrates the effect
on net income and earnings per share if Zebra had applied the fair value
recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-based
Compensation,

to stock-based
compensation.

Deferred
Compensation Plan.

Zebra has a deferred compensation plan that permits management and highly
compensated employees to defer portions of their compensation. Zebra
immediately pays deferred amounts into a Rabbi Trust, and plan participants
select a method of investing these funds. Zebra accrues the current balance of
the deferred compensation obligation in

F-10

other long-term
liabilities. As of December 31, 2003, Zebra’s deferred compensation liability
was $2,401,000. Zebra purchases life insurance policies to fund the ultimate
payment of the deferred compensation. These polices are valued at the cash
surrender value and included in investments and marketable securities.

Foreign Currency Translation.

The
consolidated balance sheets of Zebra’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into
U.S. dollars using the year-end exchange rate, and statement of earnings items
are translated using the average exchange rate for the year. The resulting
translation gains or losses are recorded in stockholders’ equity as a
cumulative translation adjustment, which is a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income.

Capitalized Software.

Zebra’s
investment in software development consists primarily of enhancements to its
existing E-commerce web-based application, which will include the automation of
current business activities. Specifically, the activities include the
processing of customer orders; the acknowledgement of customer orders and
delivery; and the financial invoicing for all of Zebra’s products and will aid
in enabling Zebra to create new business efficiencies.

Costs associated
with the planning and design phases of web-based development, including coding
and testing activities necessary to establish technological feasibility of the
functionality of the website, are charged to research and development as
incurred. Once technological feasibility has been determined, costs incurred in
the construction phase of software development including coding, testing, and
product quality assurance are capitalized.

Acquisition Costs.

Zebra periodically invests
in potential acquisitions. Any external costs incurred are recorded as prepaid
expenses until such time as Zebra either completes the transaction or abandons
the transaction. If the transaction is completed, the costs are treated as part
of the cost of the acquisition. If the transaction is abandoned, the costs are
expensed during the period in which it is abandoned. During 2002, operating
expenses included $3,300,000 of costs related to such an abandonment.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and
Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of

. Zebra accounts
for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144,

Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

. The statement
requires that long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles be
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of
assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount
of an asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from
the use and the eventual disposition of the asset. If such assets are
considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the
amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the
assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying
amount or fair value less costs to sell.

Recently Issued Accounting
Pronouncements.

In January
2003, the FASB issued FIN 46,

Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities.

FIN 46 requires us to consolidate a
variable interest entity (VIE) if we have a majority of the risks, rewards or
both of that entity. FIN 46 will be effective for most VIEs beginning in the
fourth quarter of 2003. Zebra has no investments in variable interest entities;
therefore, FIN 46 has no effect on our financial statements.

In December
2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148,

Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure,

amending
SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation

, to provide alternative transition methods for an
entity that voluntarily changes to the fair value based method of accounting
for stock-based employee compensation. Zebra does not currently intend to make
this change.

In April 2003,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 149,

Amendment of
Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

. SFAS
No. 149 clarifies when a contract with an initial net investment meets the
characteristics of a derivative and when a derivative contains a financing
component that warrants special reporting in the statements of cash flows. SFAS
No. 149 is generally effective for contracts entered into or modified after
June 30, 2003, and had no impact on Zebra’s financial position or results of
operations.

In May 2003,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 150,

Accounting for
Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and
Equity

. SFAS No. 150 sets standards for classification and
measurement by an issuer of financial instruments with characteristics of both
liabilities and equity. It requires treating these instruments as a liability
(or an asset in some

F-11

circumstances)
because the financial instrument is an obligation of the issuer. Zebra has
issued no financial instruments with these characteristics, and therefore, SFAS
No. 150 had no effect on our financial statements.

Note 3 Stock Based Compensation

As of December 31, 2003, Zebra
has three active stock option and stock purchase plans, which are described
below.

The Board of
Directors adopted the 1997 Stock Option Plan, effective February 11, 1997, and
6,375,000 shares of Class A Common Stock were reserved for issuance under the
plan. The 1997 Stock Option Plan is a flexible plan that provides the committee
that administers the Plan broad discretion to fashion the terms of the awards
to provide eligible participants with stock-based incentives, including: (i)
nonqualified and incentive stock options for the purchase of Zebra’s Class A
Common Stock and (ii) dividend equivalents. The persons eligible to participate
in the 1997 Stock Option Plan are directors, officers, and employees of Zebra
or any subsidiary of Zebra who, in the opinion of the committee administering
the plan, are in a position to make contributions to the growth, management,
protection and success of Zebra or its subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2003,
1,906,126 shares were available under the plan.

The options granted under the
1997 Stock Option Plan have an exercise price equal to the closing market price
of Zebra’s stock on the date of grant. The options generally vest over two- to
five-year periods and have a legal life of ten years from the date of grant.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors administers the plan.

Zebra’s Board of Directors adopted the 1997 Director Plan, effective
February 11, 1997. The 1997 Director Plan provides for the issuance of options
to purchase up to 115,500 shares of Class A Common Stock, which shares are
reserved and available for purchase upon the exercise of options granted under the
1997 Director Plan. Only directors who are not employees or officers of Zebra
are eligible to participate in the 1997 Director Plan. Under the 1997 Director
Plan, each non-employee director was granted, on the effective date of the
plan, an option to purchase 22,500 shares of Class A Common Stock, and each
non-employee director subsequently elected to the Board will be granted an
option to purchase shares of Class A Common Stock on the date of his or her
election. Options granted under the 1997 Director Plan provide for the purchase
of Class A Common Stock at a price equal to the fair market value on the date
of grant. If there are not sufficient shares remaining and available to all
non-employee directors eligible for an automatic grant at the time at which an
automatic grant would otherwise be made, then each eligible non-employee
director shall receive an option to purchase a pro rata number of shares.
Unless otherwise provided in an option agreement, options granted under the
1997 Director Plan shall become exercisable in five equal increments beginning
on the date of the grant and on each of the first four anniversaries thereof.
All options expire on the earlier of (a) ten years following the grant date or
(b) the second anniversary of the termination of the non-employee director’s
directorship for any reason other than due to death or disability (as defined
in the 1997 Director Plan). A total of 78,750 shares were issued under this
plan, which was terminated February 1, 2002. At December 31, 2003, 7,500
options issued under the 1997 Director Plan remained outstanding and
unexercised.

The Board of
Directors and stockholders adopted the 2001 Stock Purchase Plan and reserved
750,000 shares of Class A Common Stock for issuance under the plan. Under this
plan, employees who work a minimum of 20 hours per week may elect to withhold
up to 10% of their cash compensation through regular payroll deductions to
purchase shares of Class A Common Stock from Zebra over a period not to exceed
12 months at a purchase price per share equal to the lesser of: (1) 85% of the
fair market value of the shares as of the date of the grant, or (2) 85% of the
fair market value of the shares as of the date of purchase. As of December 31,
2003, 156,786 shares have been purchased under the plan.

Zebra’s Board of
Directors adopted the 2002 Director Plan, effective February 1, 2002. The 2002
Director Plan provides for the issuance of options to purchase up to 240,000
shares of Class A Common Stock, which shares are reserved and available for
purchase upon the exercise of options granted under the 2002 Director Plan.
Only directors who are not employees or officers of Zebra are eligible to
participate in the 2002 Director Plan. Under the 2002 Director Plan, each
non-employee director was granted, on the effective date of the plan, an option
to purchase 30,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, and each non-employee
director subsequently elected to the Board will be granted an option to
purchase shares of Class A Common Stock on the date of his or her election or
appointment. Options granted under the 2002 Director Plan provide for the
purchase of Class A Common Stock at a price equal to the fair market value on
the date of grant. If there are not sufficient shares remaining and available
to all non-employee directors eligible for an automatic grant at the time at
which an automatic grant would otherwise be made, then each eligible
non-employee director shall receive an option to purchase a pro rata number of
shares. As of December 31, 2003, 125,288 shares were available under the plan.
Unless otherwise provided in an option agreement, options granted under the
2002 Director Plan shall become exercisable in five equal increments beginning
on the date of the grant and on each of the

F-12

first four
anniversaries thereof. All options expire on the earlier of (a) ten years
following the grant date, (b) the first anniversary of the termination of the
non-employee director’s directorship for any reason other than those listed in
clause (c) below, or (c) the termination of the non-employee director’s
directorship by Zebra’s stockholders for cause, or resignation for cause, in
each case as defined in the option agreement.

For purposes of
calculating the compensation cost consistent with SFAS No. 123, the fair value
of each stock option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following table shows the
weighted-average assumptions used for stock option grants as well as the fair
value of the options granted based on those assumptions:

The fair value of the
employees’ purchase rights pursuant to the Stock Purchase Plan are estimated
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions used for purchase rights granted. Expected lives
of three months to one year have been used along with these assumptions.

Stock option activity for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 was as follows:

F-13

The following table summarizes
information about fixed stock options outstanding at December 31, 2003:

Note 4 Business
Combinations

Atlantek, Inc.

On
November 17, 2003, Zebra acquired Atlantek, Inc. (Atlantek), by acquiring all
of the outstanding stock of Atlantek for approximately $13,680,000 in cash.
Located in Wakefield, Rhode Island, Atlantek had been a privately held company.
Atlantek designs and manufactures thermal digital printers. Additional payments
are contingent upon future revenue of specific products for a two-year period,
the amount for which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. The
consolidated statements of earnings reflect the results of operations of Atlantek
since the effective date of the acquisition. The pro forma impact of this
acquisition was not significant.

The following table (in
thousands) summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition. We are still finalizing our
valuations of certain intangible assets; thus, the allocation of the purchase
price is subject to refinement. We expect this valuation to be completed during
the first quarter of 2004. Additionally, when the contingent purchase price
payments discussed above are finalized, these amounts will be added to
goodwill.

The purchase price has been
allocated to identifiable tangible assets and intangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. Of the $7,808,000 of
acquired intangible assets, $692,000 was assigned to in-process technology
assets that were written-off at the date of the acquisition in accordance with
FASB Interpretation No. 4,

Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business
Combinations for by the Purchase Method

. The write-off of in-process
technology is stated separately in the operating expense section of the
consolidated statements of earnings. The remaining $7,116,000 of acquired
intangible assets consist of current technology of $4,613,000 with useful lives
from 5 to 6 years and customer relationships of $2,503,000 with a useful life
of 8 years. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.

Acquisition Termination Costs and Sale of
Investment

.

In the first
quarter of 2002, Zebra terminated the acquisition agreement and tender offer in
which Zebra would acquire all outstanding shares of common stock (including
associated rights to purchase preferred stock) of Fargo Electronics, Inc. for
$7.25 per share in cash. In connection with the termination, Zebra recorded
$3,300,000 in expenses for capitalized acquisition costs and other acquisition
costs that would otherwise have been capitalized. Also during the quarter ended
March 30, 2002, Zebra sold its investment in common stock of Fargo and realized
a pre-tax gain of $1,953,000, which is included in investment income.

F-14

Note 5—Stockholders’ Equity

Share count and par value data
related to stockholders’ equity are as follows:

Zebra’s Certificate of Incorporation provides that if
the outstanding shares of Zebra Class B common stock cease to represent at
least 10% of the aggregate number of shares of Zebra common stock then
outstanding, each share of Zebra Class B common stock shall automatically
convert into one share of Zebra Class A common stock. Class B common stock
entitles the holder to ten votes per share while Class A common stock entitles
the holder to one vote per share, on each matter submitted to a vote of Zebra’s
stockholders. Class B shares fell below 10% of the outstanding shares on July
1, 2003, and the required automatic conversion occurred at that time. Upon
conversion of the Class B common stock, the number of authorized shares of
Class A common stock increased to 78,358,189, and the number of authorized
shares of Class B common stock decreased to zero.

On July 24, 2003, the Board of Directors authorized a
fifty percent (50%) stock dividend on each issued share of Class A common
stock, payable before the close of business on August 21, 2003, to holders of
record at the close of business on August 7, 2003. All share counts and
per-share amounts were restated to reflect this stock dividend.

Stockholder Rights Agreement.

Zebra’s Board of
Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Agreement under which stock purchase
rights were paid by dividend to stockholders of record on March 15, 2002 at the
rate of one Class A Right for each outstanding share of Class A Common Stock.
Each Class A Right, other than those held by the acquiring person, entitles the
registered holder to purchase one ten-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, at a price of $300
per one ten-thousandth of Class A Preferred Share after the distribution date.
The distribution date is 10 days after the date on which any person or group
announces that it has acquired 15% or more of Zebra’s outstanding common stock
or 10 days (or a later date as determined by the Board of Directors) after the
date on which any person or group announces or commences a tender offer that
would result in the person or group becoming an owner of 15% or more of the
outstanding common stock.

The Rights will expire on March
14, 2012 unless that date has been extended by the Board of Directors or unless
the Rights are redeemed or terminated earlier. A committee of Zebra’s
independent directors will review the Rights Plan at least every three years
and decide whether it should continue or be revoked. Zebra generally may amend
the Rights Plan or redeem the Rights at $0.001 per Right at any time prior to the
time a person or group has acquired at least 15% of the outstanding common
stock.

F-15

Note
6 Earnings Per Share

For the years ended December
31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, earnings per share were computed as follows (in
thousands, except per-share amounts):

The potentially dilutive
securities, which were excluded from the earnings per share calculation,
consisted of stock options for which the exercise price was greater than the
average market price of the Class A Common Stock. For the years ended December
31, the shares amounted to 52,712 in 2003, 194,875 in 2002, and 436,325 in
2001.

No

te 7 Investments and Marketable Securities

During the first quarter of
2003, we changed the classification of certain investments and marketable
securities from the trading category to the available-for-sale category. We
made this change because we are no longer buying securities with the intent to
sell them in the near term. We account for these investments under the rules in
SFAS No. 115,

Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.

SFAS
No. 115 requires that

changes in the market value of
available-for-sale securities are reflected in the accumulated other
comprehensive income section of stockholders’ equity in the balance sheet,
until disposed of. Once these securities are disposed of, either by sale or
maturity, the accumulated changes in market value are transferred to investment
income.

Changes in market value of

trading

securities are recorded in
investment income as they occur, and the related cash flow statement includes
changes in the balances of trading securities as operating cash flows.

F-16

The amortized cost, gross unrealized holding
gains, gross unrealized holding losses and aggregate fair value of investment
securities at December 31, 2003, were as follows (in thousands):

The amortized cost, gross
unrealized holding gains, gross unrealized holding losses and aggregate fair
value of investment securities at December 31, 2002, were as follows (in
thousands):

Unrealized gains and losses on investment securities are included in
these financial statements as follows (in thousands):

As of December 31, 2003, 29 investments
in government securities with market values aggregating $91,406,000 were less
than amortized cost. In addition, 23 investments in state and municipal bonds
with market values aggregating $30,187,000 were less than amortized cost. These
lower market values are caused by short-term fluctuations in interest rates and
are not a

F-17

reflection of the credit worthiness of the
issuer. The market value of these securities has been below amortized cost for
less than twelve months.

Zebra is a limited partner in two
non-registered partnerships. The partnerships seek to provide returns to its
partners by making strategic investments in a diversified portfolio of
investment funds. Zebra’s investment as a limited partner allows it to have
liability protection limited to the amount of its investments in the funds.

The contractual maturities of debt securities
at December 31, 2003, were as follows (in thousands):

Using the specific identification method, the
proceeds and realized gains on the sales of available-for-sale securities were
as follows (in thousands):




Proceeds

$

338,557

$

3,499

¾

Realized gains
  (losses)

$


$

1,760

$

(2,242

)

The realized gain of $1,760,000 in 2002 includes a gain on the sale of
an available-for-sale stock offset by an additional write-down of an
available-for-sale security whose decline in value was determined to be other
than temporary. The realized loss of $2,242,000 in 2001 is the result of a
write-down of an available-for-sale security whose decline in value was
determined to be other than temporary.

Note 8 Related-Party
Transactions

Unique Building Corporation (Unique), an entity controlled by certain
officers and stockholders of Zebra, leases a facility and equipment to Zebra
under a lease described in Note 15. Management believes that the lease payments
are substantially consistent with amounts that could have been negotiated with
third parties on an arm’s-length basis and represent conditions at the time of
the negotiations.

Lease payments related to the leases, and recorded as a component of
all functional areas, were included in the consolidated financial statements as
follows (in thousands):

Future minimum lease payments related to this lease as of
December 31, 2003, are as follows (in thousands):

F-18

Note 9 Inventories

The components of inventories, net of allowances, are as follows (in
thousands):

Note 10 Property and
Equipment

Property and equipment, which includes assets under capital leases, is
comprised of the following (in thousands):

Amortization of capitalized software was $2,132,000 in 2003, $2,042,000
in 2002, and $1,834,000 in 2001.

Note 11 Income Taxes

The geographical sources of earnings before income taxes were as
follows (in thousands):

Zebra does not provide for deferred income taxes on undistributed earnings
of foreign subsidiaries, which totaled approximately $22,500,000 at
December 31, 2003 and $11,600,000 at December 31, 2002. Should such
earnings be remitted to Zebra, foreign tax credits would be available to
substantially offset the U.S. income taxes due upon repatriation.

F-19

The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in
thousands):

The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed by
applying the U.S. statutory Federal income tax rate of 35%. The reconciliation
of statutory and effective income taxes is presented below (in thousands):

Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences
between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes
and such amounts as measured by tax laws. Based on management’s assessment, it
is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized through
future taxable earnings.

Beginning in 1998, we were involved in a series of tax
disputes with the State of Illinois covering our Illinois income taxes from
1993 through 2000. Throughout the dispute, we regularly reviewed and updated
our reserves based on our estimate of the final outcome that would be achieved.
During the fourth quarter of 2003, we reached a settlement with the State of
Illinois in the amount of $7,000,000, covering all disputed issues for 1993
through 2000.

As a result of the settlement, we recorded a reduction to income tax
expense for the amount our reserves exceeded that settlement, or $1,342,000,
during the fourth quarter of 2003. In addition, we received interest of
$306,000 on the protest funds we had on deposit with the State of Illinois.
This interest was recorded as interest income during the fourth quarter of
2003.

F-20

Tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax
assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):

Note 12 Goodwill and
Other Intangible Asset Data

During the first quarter
of 2002, we implemented SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

,
which replaces the requirements to amortize intangible assets with indefinite
lives and goodwill with a requirement for an annual impairment test. SFAS No.
142 also set requirements for identifiable intangible assets. As a result,
during the first quarter of 2002 Zebra reclassified $21,720,000 of intangible
assets that did meet the established requirements for goodwill.

Intangible asset data are as follows (in thousands):

F-21

We test the impairment of
identifiable intangibles and goodwill each year or whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We
completed our last assessment during June 2003.

We evaluate the impairment
of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value may not be recoverable.

Factors considered that
might trigger an impairment review consist of:

•

Significant underperformance
relative to expected historical or projected future operating results

•

Significant changes in the
manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business

•

Significant negative
industry or economic trends

•

Significant decline in
Zebra’s stock price for a sustained period

•

Significant decline in
market capitalization relative to net book value

If we believe that one or
more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred, we measure impairment
based on a projected discounted cash flow using a discount rate that
incorporates the risk inherent in the cash flows.

Operating income for 2001 includes $3,835,000 of amortization of
goodwill and other intangible assets that are not included in 2002 and 2003
results, because of the implementation of SFAS No. 142. If adjusted for the
impact of the implementation of

SFAS No. 142 (i.e., if goodwill had not
been amortized), net income, basic earnings per share, and diluted earnings per
share would have been as follows:

Note 13 401(k)
Savings and Profit Sharing Plans

Zebra has a Retirement Savings and Investment Plan (the 401(k) Plan),
which is intended to qualify under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Qualified employees may participate in Zebra’s 401(k) Plan by contributing
up to 15% of their gross earnings to the plan subject to certain Internal
Revenue Service restrictions. Zebra matches each participant’s contribution of
up to 6% of gross eligible earnings at the rate of 50%. Zebra may contribute
additional amounts to the 401(k) Plan at the discretion of the Board of
Directors, subject to certain legal limits.

Zebra has a discretionary profit-sharing plan for qualified employees,
to which it contributed 2.4% of eligible payroll for 2003, 1.9% for 2002 and
1.9% for 2001. Participants are not permitted to make contributions under the
profit-sharing plan.

Company contributions to these plans, which were charged to operations,
approximated the following (in thousands):

Note 14 Derivative
Instruments

In the normal course of
business, portions of Zebra’s operations are subject to fluctuations in
currency values. We manage these risks using derivative financial instruments.

Hedging
of Net Assets

We use forward contracts
and options to manage exposure related to our pound and euro denominated net
assets. We record gains and losses on these contracts and options in income
each quarter along with the translation gains and losses related to

F-22

our net euro asset
position, which would ordinarily offset each other. Summary financial
information related to these activities follows (in thousands):

Hedging
of Anticipated Sales

During the second quarter
of 2003, we began a program to manage the exchange rate risk of anticipated
euro denominated sales using forward contracts and designated these contracts
as cash flow hedges. Unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are
deferred in other comprehensive income until the contracts are settled and the
hedged sales are realized, at which time the deferred gains or losses will be
reported as an increase or decrease to sales. Summary financial information related
to the cash flow hedges of future revenues follows (in thousands, except
percentages):

Note 15 Commitments
and Contingencies

Leases.

In
September 1989, Zebra entered into a lease agreement for its Vernon Hills
facility and certain machinery, equipment, furniture and fixtures with Unique
Building Corporation, a related party. The facility portion of the lease is the
only remaining portion in existence as of December 31, 2003, and is
treated as an operating lease. An amendment to the lease dated July 1997
added 59,150 square feet and extended the term of the existing lease through
June 30, 2014. The lease agreement includes a modification to the base
monthly rental, which goes into effect if the prescribed rent payment is less
than the aggregate principal and interest payments required to be made by Unique
under an Industrial Revenue Bond (IRB).

F-23

Minimum future obligations under non-cancelable operating leases and
future minimum capital lease payments as of December 31, 2003, are as
follows (in thousands):

Rent expense for operating leases charged to operations for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 was $5,591,000, $5,699,000, and
$4,917,000, respectively.

Letter of credit.

In
connection with the lease agreements described above, Zebra has guaranteed
Unique’s full and prompt payment under Unique’s letter of credit agreement with
a bank. The contingent liability of Zebra under this guaranty as of
December 31, 2003, is $700,000, which is the limit of Zebra’s guaranty
throughout the term of the IRB.

Legal proceedings.

On
April 23, 2003, Paxar Americas, Inc., (Paxar Americas) filed a patent
infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Ohio against Zebra and certain of its subsidiaries. Paxar Americas’
Complaint alleges that certain of Zebra’s printer products infringe one or more
of eight identified Paxar Americas patents, although not each product is
accused of infringing each patent. Zebra has filed an Answer to Paxar Americas’
Complaint, denying Paxar Americas’ allegations of infringement and asserting
several affirmative defenses, including the invalidity of Paxar Americas’
asserted patent claims.

On November 21, 2003, ZIH Corp. (ZIH) filed a Complaint in the
United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts against Paxar
Corporation, alleging that Paxar Corporation printers infringe ZIH’s U.S.
Patent Nos. 5,813,343 and 5,860,753. Paxar Corporation answered ZIH’s
Complaint, denying infringement and seeking a declaratory judgment that ZIH’s
patents-in-suit are not infringed and are invalid and/or unenforceable. Paxar
Corporation filed a motion to transfer ZIH’s Massachusetts suit to Ohio federal
court. ZIH opposed Paxar Corporation’s motion to transfer, and the parties are
awaiting the Court’s ruling on the transfer motion.

On November 25, 2003, Paxar Americas filed a Complaint against ZIH
in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, seeking
a declaratory judgment that the patents asserted by ZIH in its Massachusetts
Complaint are not infringed and are invalid and unenforceable. On
December 17, 2003, Paxar Americas amended its complaint to add Zebra
Technologies Corporation as a defendant. The parties have filed a motion to
stay this action pending the Massachusetts District Court’s ruling on Paxar
Corporation’s motion to transfer. The parties have agreed to file a motion to
transfer this action to the Massachusetts District Court if the Massachusetts
District Court denies Paxar Corporation’s pending motion to transfer.

We are unable at this time to estimate the range of the potential
liability that would result from an unsuccessful defense, and consistent with
the requirements of SFAS No. 5,

Accounting
for Contingencies,

no liability has been recorded in Zebra’s
consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2003.

Note 16 Segment Data
and Export Sales

Zebra is organized with two internal business
units, bar code and card imaging. These business units have similar economic
characteristics, products and services, production processes, types of
customers, distribution methods, and regulatory environments. Additionally,
there are significant shared services supporting both business units. Because
of these similarities,

F-24

we have aggregated our internal business
units and have treated them as one reportable segment as permitted by SFAS No.
131,

Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information.

Information regarding Zebra’s operations by geographic area for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 is contained in the
following table. These amounts (in thousands) are reported in the geographic
area where the final sale originates.

Note 17 Deferred
Compensation Plan

Beginning January 1, 2002, Zebra offered a deferred compensation
plan that permits management and highly compensated employees to defer portions
of their compensation and to select a method of investing these funds. The
salaries that have been deferred since the plan’s inception have been accrued and
the only expense, other than salaries, related to this plan is the unrealized
gain/loss on the deferred amounts. Investment income includes an unrealized
loss of $60,000 for 2003 and $16,000 for 2002 related to this plan. Zebra has
included $2,401,000 in other long-term liabilities at December 31, 2003
and $1,008,000 at December 31, 2002, to reflect its liability under this
plan. To fund this plan, Zebra purchases corporate-owned whole-life insurance
contracts on the related employees, of which Zebra is the beneficiary.
Investments and marketable securities include the cash surrender value of these
policies aggregating $2,116,000 as of December 31, 2003, and $914,000 as
of December 31, 2002.

Note 18 Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities

During the
third quarter of 2003, we initiated a plan to close our engineering site in
Varades, France. This plan was announced in October 2003 and will be
accounted for under SFAS No. 146,

Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
Activities

. All exit costs associated with this activity will be
identified on a separate line of our income statement, as part of operating
expenses. Our consolidation plan is intended to reduce costs and improve
manufacturing efficiency.

Currently, our
Varades facility conducts the product development for our line of card imaging
identification printers and includes the European service center for these
printers. We will transfer the product development activities to Camarillo,
California, where we have manufactured these printers since 2001. We will
transfer the European card imaging printer service operation to our Preston,
United Kingdom, facility where the Europe, Middle East and African distribution
of these printers already occurs. Additionally, we will eliminate the Varades
administrative functions including finance, information systems and human
resources support. At the completion of the plan, the Varades facility will be
closed and no employees will remain. As of December 31, 2003, we expect
the following exit costs (in thousands):

F-25

As of
December 31, 2003, costs of $990,000 have been accrued that are associated
with this program. During the fourth quarter of 2003, $242,000 was paid out for
severance and other related expenses.

During
January 2004, we announced plans to consolidate our Warwick, Rhode Island,
printer manufacturing and repair service business into our Camarillo,
California and Vernon Hills, Illinois locations. This transition is expected to
take 12 to 18 months to complete. The Warwick facility will continue to
manufacture and distribute bar code label printer supplies, as well as house
engineering, product management, and the key account sales functions for mobile
products. We expect the following exit costs:

As of
December 31, 2003, no costs have been accrued that are associated with
this program.

Note 19 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Stockholders’ equity contains
certain items classified as other comprehensive income, including:

•

Foreign currency translation
adjustments

related to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a
functional currency other than the dollar. We are required to translate the
subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a
combination of historical, month-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This
combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustments
component of other comprehensive income.

•

Unrealized holding gains
(losses) on foreign currency hedging activities

relate to derivative
instruments used to hedge the currency exchange rates for forecasted euro
sales. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred
income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transaction
occurs. See Note 14 for more details.

•

Unrealized gains (losses) on
investments classified as available-for-sale

are deferred from
income statement recognition. See Note 7 for more details.

The changes in other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows (in
thousands):

F-26

The components of other comprehensive income (loss) appearing in the
balance sheet are as follows:

Note 20 Quarterly
Results of Operations (unaudited)

(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)

F-27

(1)

Restated for a 3-for-2 stock split in
August 2003 paid in the form of a 50% stock dividend.

(2)

Includes pretax charges of $1,232 related to
the closure of the Varades, France facility and $701 for integration and in-process
research and development costs related to the acquisition of Atlantek, Inc.

(3)

First quarter 2002 includes $3,300 in
operating expenses related to the terminated acquisition of Fargo Electronics,
Inc.

(4)

Includes pretax charges for integration costs
relating to the acquisition of Comtec Information Systems, Inc., of $73 in the
first quarter of 2002.

Note 21 Major
Customers

Sales to ScanSource, Inc., accounted for 13.8% of net sales in 2003 and
13.6% in 2002. No customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales in 2001.

F-28

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

Schedule II

Valuation
and Qualifying Accounts

(Amounts in thousands)

See accompanying independent auditors’ report.

F-29