10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS

PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 000-19406

Zebra Technologies Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

36-2675536

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

333 Corporate Woods Parkway, Vernon Hills, IL 60061

(Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(847) 634-6700

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Exchange on which Registered

Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None


Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act).

Yes

X

No

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Act. Yes

No

X

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

X

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K. [    ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of “accelerated filer,” “large accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Act) (Check one):

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Securities Act).

Yes

No

X

As of June 28, 2008, the aggregate market value of each of the registrant’s Class A Common held by non-affiliates was approximately
$2,157,955,000. The closing price of the Class A Common Stock on June 27, 2008, as reported on the Nasdaq Stock Market, was $33.17 per share.

As of February 20, 2009, 60,570,526 shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, were outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Certain sections of the registrant’s Notice of Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 21, 2009, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.


ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX



PART I

References in this document to “Zebra,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to Zebra Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.

Safe Harbor

Forward-looking statements contained in
this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent upon a variety of important factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in
such forward looking statements. These factors include:

•

Market acceptance of Zebra’s printer and software products and competitors’ product offerings and the potential effects of technological changes,

•

The effect of market conditions in North America and other geographic regions,

•

Our ability to control manufacturing and operating costs, including the success of migrating final printer product assembly offshore to a third-party manufacturer,

•

Success of integrating acquisitions,

•

Interest rate and financial market conditions because of our large investment portfolio,

•

Foreign exchange rates due to the large percentage of our international sales and operations, and

•

The outcome of litigation in which Zebra is involved, particularly litigation or claims related to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights.

When used in this document and documents referenced, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,”
“will” and “expect” and similar expressions as they relate to Zebra or its management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. We encourage readers of this report to review Item 1A, “Risk Factors,”
in this report for further discussion of issues that could affect Zebra’s future results. Zebra undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed
circumstances or any other reason after the date of this annual report.

Item 1.      Business

Zebra Technologies Corporation was incorporated as an
Illinois Corporation in 1969. We became a Delaware corporation in 1991 in connection with our initial public offering, which we completed in August 1991. We remain organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, and our principal offices are
located at 333 Corporate Woods Parkway, Vernon Hills, Illinois 60061. In March 2009, our principal offices will relocate to 475 Half Day Road, Lincolnshire, Illinois 60069. Our main telephone number is (847) 634-6700 and our primary Internet
Web site address is

www.zebra.com

. You can find all of Zebra’s filings with the SEC free of charge through the investor page on this Web site, immediately upon filing.

The Company

Zebra delivers products and solutions that improve our customers’ ability to help our customers put
their critical assets to work smarter by identifying, tracking and managing assets, transactions and people. Through the Specialty Printing Group (SPG), we design, manufacture and sell specialty printing devices that print variable information on
demand at the point of issuance. These devices are used worldwide by manufacturers, service organizations and governments for automatic identification, data collection and personal identification in applications that improve productivity, deliver
better customer service and provide more effective security. Our product range consists of direct thermal and thermal transfer label and receipt printers, passive radio frequency identification (RFID) printer/encoders, dye sublimation card printers
and digital photo printers. We also sell a comprehensive range of specialty supplies consisting of self-adhesive labels, thermal transfer ribbons, thermal printheads, batteries and other accessories, including software for label design and printer
network management.

In 2007 and 2008, we acquired WhereNet Corp., proveo AG, Navis Holdings, LLC and Multispectral Solutions, Inc. Together, these
companies comprise our Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group (ESG). The acquisitions of these companies expanded the range of identification and tracking solutions we deliver to our customers. In addition, they provided us with new technologies to offer
our customers including active RFID and global positioning systems



(GPS). The products of these companies consist of battery-powered wireless tags, fixed-position antennae, transponder modules and various application
software. These companies also provide consulting services, maintenance contracts and software licenses.

Zebra Specialty Printing Group (SPG)

We design our printer products to operate at the point of issuance to produce and dispense high-quality labels, tickets, receipts, and plastic cards on
demand. The exceptional diversity of applications using our printer products for barcoding and personal identification is comprised of routing and tracking, transactions processing, and identification and authentication. These applications require
high levels of data accuracy, where speed and reliability are critical. They also include specialty printing for receipts and tickets where improved customer service and productivity gains may be the primary reason for printing, rather than a
barcoding application. Plastic cards are used for secure, reliable personal identification or access control.

Applications for our printing technology
span most industries and geographies. They include inventory control, small package delivery, baggage handling, automated warehousing, JIT (Just-In-Time) manufacturing, employee time and attendance records, file management systems, hospital
information systems, medical specimen labeling, shop floor control, in-store product labeling, employee ID cards, driver’s licenses, and access control systems. As of December 31, 2008, management estimates that Zebra has sold more than
7,500,000 printers to customers around the world.

We believe competitive forces on businesses worldwide to strengthen security, reduce costs, improve
quality, deliver better customer service, and increase productivity, support the adoption of the printing and automatic identification applications Zebra provides, because these solutions deliver significant and predictable economic benefits.
Industry-mandated compliance requirements for bar code labeling and RFID tagging are also important catalysts in the deployment of these systems. We also believe that companies are adopting automatic identification systems that incorporate barcoding
and RFID for business improvement applications. Many of these applications make increasing use of enterprise-wide resource planning (ERP) and other process improvement systems in manufacturing and service organizations. Greater emphasis on supply
chain management, the drive to reduce errors in healthcare, and heightened concern over safety and security will lead to increased use of automatic identification systems. Still other applications are taking advantage of recent advances in wireless
and hand-held computing technologies.

Concern for safety and security and personal identification contribute to demand for our card printer products. This
concern has heightened interest in systems that provide personal identification and access control, including secure ID systems for driver’s licenses, employee and visitor badges, national identification cards, event passes, club membership
cards and keyless entry systems.

Our printers are used to produce bar code labels, passive RFID “smart” labels, receipts, plastic identification
cards, wristbands and tags. We also sell related specialty labeling materials, thermal ink ribbons, and bar code label design and network management software. These products are used to provide bar code labeling, personal identification, and
specialty printing solutions principally in the manufacturing supply chain, retail, healthcare and government sectors of the economy. We work closely with distributors, resellers, kiosk manufacturers and end users of our products to design and
implement printing solutions that meet their technical demands. To achieve this flexibility, we provide our customers with a broad selection of printer models, each of which can be configured for a specific application. Additionally, we will select
and, if necessary, create appropriate labeling stock, ink ribbons and adhesives to suit a particular application. In-house engineering personnel in software, mechanical, electronic and chemical engineering participate in the creation and development
of printing solutions for particular applications.

We produce the industry’s broadest range of rugged, on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal
printers. Our printing systems include hundreds of optional configurations that can be selected to meet particular customer needs. We believe this breadth of product is a unique and significant competitive strength, because it allows Zebra to
satisfy the widest variety of thermal printing applications.

Of the major printing technologies, which include ink jet, laser and impact dot matrix, we
believe that direct thermal and thermal transfer technologies are best suited for most bar code labeling and other on-demand printing applications. Thermal transfer printing produces dark, solid blacks and sharply defined lines that are important
for printing readily scannable bar codes. These images can be printed on a wide variety of labeling materials, which



enable users to affix bar code labels to virtually any object. This capability is very important in the industrial and service sectors Zebra serves. Direct
thermal printing is best suited where ease of use, smaller size and cost are important factors in the application. Accordingly, this technology is found principally in Zebra’s mobile and desktop units.

As of December 31, 2008, we offered 56 thermal printer models with numerous variations, in eight categories as follows:

•

Performance tabletop printers for applications requiring continuous operation in high output, mission-critical and industrial settings.

•

RFID printer/encoders for passive high frequency (HF) and ultra-high frequency (UHF) radio frequency identification (RFID) in the retail supply chain, for defense
logistics, and other applications. These units are used to print and encode “smart labels” in a single pass. Smart labels are printable labels embedded with an ultra-thin radio frequency transponder. Information encoded in these
transponders can then be read and modified by a radio frequency reader.

•

Mid-range tabletop printers, which are designed for demanding commercial applications.

•

Desktop printers to deliver value and performance in applications with lower volume or space restrictions.

•

Mobile printers to meet the printing needs of workers in the field.

•

Print engines, which are sold to manufacturers and integrators of high-speed automatic label applicator systems and are available with or without RFID smart label
capabilities.

•

Kiosk and ticket printers for use in kiosks and other unattended printing applications.

•

Card printers, which print national identity cards, driver’s licenses, employee identification badges, gift cards and personalized cards.

In addition to their use in on-demand automatic identification applications, our thermal printers can also be used for on-site batch
production of custom bar code labels and other graphics. This capability results in shorter lead times, reduced inventory, and more flexibility than can be provided with traditional off-site printing.

Printer Supplies

Supplies products consist of stock and customized
thermal labels, wristbands, smart labels and tags, plastic cards, card laminates and thermal transfer ribbons. Zebra promotes the use of genuine Zebra brand supplies with its equipment.

Zebra fully supports its printers, resellers and end users with an extensive line of superior quality, high-performance supplies optimized to a particular user’s needs. Supplies are chosen in consultation with
the reseller and end user based on the specific application, printer and environment in which the labeling system must perform. These printing solutions frequently include proprietary ribbon and label formulations that are designed to optimize image
resolution and printer performance while meeting the most demanding end user application performance criteria. Factors such as adhesion, resistance to scratches, smudges and abrasion, and chemical and environmental exposures are all taken into
account when selecting the type of ribbon and labeling materials. The use of supplies that are not carefully matched to specific printers can degrade image quality, and decrease the part life of key printer components such as printheads.

Printer Related Software

Zebra has specialized printer management, label design and driver solutions to help unlock the full potential of Zebra printers. The ZebraLink Solutions suite of networking, software, firmware offerings, combined with
the enhanced printer management capabilities of ZebraNet™ Bridge, makes Zebra’s printers easy to use and integrate into small, medium and enterprise-wide environments. Our goal is to provide software that enables high levels of
functionality to all major computer network and software systems. Network systems include Ethernet, 802.11b/g and Bluetooth

®

. In 2008, a Mobile printer-based Software Development Kit was
introduced to aid with integration into Windows Mobile

®

applications. Zebra also introduced ZBI 2.0, an optional printer programming language, which allows customers to create and run
customized applications on Zebra printers.



Zebra offers label design and integration software specifically
designed to optimize the performance of Zebra bar code label printers. Zebra’s suite of label design and printer configuration tools includes ZebraDesigner™, ZebraDesigner™ Pro, ZebraDesigner™ for XML, and ZebraDesigner™
Label Design Software for use with mySAP™ Business Suite. In 2008, Zebra added the Enterprise Connector Solution for Oracle

®

Business Intelligence Publisher™, which delivers
seamless integration between Oracle and Zebra printers, creating a versatile, easily managed, cost-effective printing platform.

Printer Maintenance and
Services

Zebra provides depot maintenance and repair services at repair centers in Vernon Hills, Illinois; Camarillo, California; Canada; Preston,
U.K.; Singapore; China; and the Netherlands. Zebra Authorized Service Providers (ZASP) also provide repair services for most Zebra products at their locations. In addition, Zebra offers on-site repair services for tabletop printers in the United
States. Outside of the United States, Zebra’s resellers may provide maintenance service, either directly as ZASPs or through independent service agents. Zebra also provides technical support from in-house support personnel located in the United
States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. For most Zebra products, Zebra provides interactive technical support via the Internet at

www.zebra.com

, 24 hours per day, seven days per week.

Printer Warranties

In general, Zebra provides warranty coverage of
one year on printers against defects in material and workmanship. Printheads are warranted for nine months, and batteries are warranted for three months. Zebra supplies are warranted against defects in material and workmanship for their stated shelf
life or twelve months, whichever ends first. Defective equipment and supplies may be returned for repair or replacement during the applicable warranty periods.

Zebra’s Printer Technology

Our customers rely on Zebra to provide products and systems to identify, authenticate, track or route both
items and people, and then process the related transactions. These products and systems use technologies that provide specific benefits in each application.

All Zebra printers and print engines use thermal printing, either direct thermal printing, thermal transfer printing or dye-sublimation printing. This technology creates an image by heating certain pixels of an electrical printhead to
selectively image a ribbon or heat-sensitive substrate.

Direct thermal printers apply the heat directly to a thermally-sensitive label, wristband, or
receipt to create an image. This benefits applications needing simple, reliable operation such as shelf labeling, patient identification, and kiosk receipts. Some desktop label printers, mobile printers and kiosk printers support only direct thermal
printing.

Thermal transfer printers apply heat to a ribbon to release ink onto labels or tags. This allows a wider range of specialty label materials and
associated inks to be used for applications like circuit board labels, chemical identification and product labels requiring resistance to chemicals, temperature extremes, abrasion, or long life. Performance, mid-range, print-engines and some desktop
printers use thermal transfer printing but can also support direct thermal printing.

Dye-sublimation printers apply heat to a ribbon to release a dye into
a plastic card or treated paper. This creates full color, photographic quality images well-suited to driver licenses, access and identification cards, transaction cards, and on-demand photographs. Our card printers use dye-sublimation printing.

Direct thermal and thermal transfer printers create crisp images at high speed, making them ideal for printing easily readable text and machine readable
bar codes. Dye sublimation thermal printers quickly create full-color images with visual characteristics more similar to halide-based film than to pixel-based ink jet or laser printers, making them ideal for high quality photographs and personalized
plastic cards. Some printers also include HF (13.56 MHz) or UHF (860-960 MHz) RFID technology that can encode data into passive RFID transponders embedded in a label, card, or wristband.



Zebra’s printers integrate company-designed mechanisms,
electrical systems, and firmware. Enclosures of metal or high-impact plastic ensure durability. Special mechanisms optimize handling of labels, ribbons, and plastic cards. Fast, high-current electrical systems provide consistent image quality.
Mobile printers use NiMH or LiIon batteries to optimize print quality over an extended operating shift. Firmware supports serial, parallel, Ethernet, USB, infrared, Bluetooth, or 802.11b/g wireless communications with appropriate security protocols.
Printing instructions can be received as a proprietary language such as Zebra Programming Language II (ZPL II

®

), as a print driver-provided image, or as user-defined XML. This makes the
printers easy to integrate into virtually all common computer systems including those operating on UNIX, Linux, MS/DOS

®

, or Microsoft

®

Windows

®

operating systems. Some independent software vendors, including Adobe, Oracle and SAP, have included Zebra printing support in applications for healthcare, warehouse
management, manufacturing, passenger transportation, and retailing.

Printer Sales and Marketing

Sales.

We sell our printer products primarily through distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We also sell our
printer products directly to a select number of named customer accounts. For media and consumables, we also sell directly to end users through the Internet and telesales operations. Distributors and VARs purchase, stock and sell a variety of
automatic identification components from different manufacturers and customize systems for end-user applications using their systems and application integration expertise. Because these sales channels provide specific software, configuration,
installation, integration and support services required by end users within various market segments, these relationships allow Zebra to reach end users throughout the world in a wide variety of industries. Zebra experiences a minor amount of
seasonality in sales, depending on the geographic region and/or vertical market.

We functionally classify our direct VARs as Premier Partners, Advanced
Partners, or Associate Partners, depending on their business competencies, depth and breadth of their sales teams, customer support capabilities, contributions to Zebra’s strategic goals and sales commitment to Zebra. In addition, we offer VARs
the opportunity to earn certifications for mobile/wireless printers, supplies, services and RFID products in vertical markets. We also sell through distributors, which in turn sell to an extended VAR community. All VARs, as well as OEMs and systems
integrators, provide customers with a variety of automatic identification components including scanners, accessories, applications software and systems integration expertise, and, in the case of some OEMs, resell the Zebra-manufactured products
under their own brands as part of their own product offering. We believe that the breadth of this indirect channel network, both in terms of variety and geographic scope, enhances our ability to compete.

In some instances, we have designated a customer as a strategic account when purchases of Zebra products reach specified levels and support requirements for the account
become highly customized. Zebra sales personnel, either alone or together with our partners, manage these strategic accounts to ensure their needs, including consistent support for projects and applications, are being met.

The sales function also encompasses a group that manages a small number of Global Alliances. They direct the business development strategies for a limited number of
third-party relationships that are strategic to new demand creation for specific vertical markets and/or specific applications.

Marketing.

Marketing operations encompass corporate marketing, marketing communications, product marketing, vertical marketing, solutions marketing, market research and channel marketing functions. Corporate marketing conducts activities to enhance the
Zebra corporate brand, corporate public relations, internal corporate communications and our Web site. The product marketing group identifies, evaluates and recommends new product opportunities and manages product introductions, positioning and
demand creation. Product marketing also focuses on strategic planning and market definition and analyzes Zebra’s competitive strengths and weaknesses.

Printer Production and Manufacturing

We design our products to optimize product performance, quality, reliability, durability and
versatility. These designs combine cost-efficient materials, sourcing and assembly methods with high standards of workmanship. In February 2008, we announced that final printer assembly will be transferred to a third-party manufacturer, Jabil
Circuit, Inc., by the end of 2009. This action is intended to optimize our global printer product supply chain by improving responsiveness to customer needs and increasing Zebra’s flexibility to meet emerging business



opportunities. See Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the transfer and
transition process.

During the transition, we will continue to manufacture some printers at our domestic factories while increasing
production by Jabil to ensure consistent flow of product to our customers. In our factories we assemble our products largely on a configure-to-order basis using components that are sourced from around the world. We have the
in-house capability to produce mechanical assemblies and design many of our own tools, fixtures and test equipment. We currently buy prefabricated component parts and subassemblies for use in the manufacture of our products. Critical subassemblies
include printheads, printed circuit board assemblies, power supplies, integrated circuits, and stepper motors, which are obtained from domestic and foreign suppliers. Purchase contracts provide for price variation in the event of commodity
price changes in the cost of raw materials. Zebra typically experiences significant variance in demand and, thus, carries inventory and partners with key suppliers to deal with the variation. Purchases of these components by Zebra will decline
as printer assembly directly by Zebra declines and assembly by Jabil increases.

Over the remainder of 2009, we will continue to transfer the assembly of
printer product lines to Jabil. During the transition, our goal is to decrease in-house printer production by printer line as the assembly of those printer lines by Jabil increases. We will maintain assembly of those printers in-house until
Jabil’s quality and production yields reach acceptable levels to ensure product availability to meet customer demands. For this reason, we expect inventories could temporarily rise until all printer manufacturing is transferred, in-house
assembly lines are shut down and excess inventories are sold down.

Jabil will produce our printers to our design specifications in the quantities we
order. Zebra will maintain control of the supply chain including supplier selection and price negotiations of component parts. Jabil is responsible for the procurement of the component parts and subassemblies used in the Zebra
printers it produces. Zebra has subsidiary located in Guangzhou, China, and has an office within 10 minutes of the Jabil facility in China where the Zebra products are assembled. This office is staffed with Zebra
sourcing, engineering and quality personnel to help ensure that we receive optimal pricing on raw materials and the final printers meet our quality standards. Zebra printers manufactured by Jabil are shipped to Zebra’s regional
distribution centers. The majority of the product will pass directly through to Zebra’s customers but a small percentage will be reconfigured through firmware downloads, packaging and some other
customization before they are shipped to customers. In addition, certain products will be manufactured in accordance with federal procurement regulations and various international trade agreements, and remain eligible for sale to the United
States government.

Printer Competition

Many companies
are engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of bar code label printers, RFID printer-encoders and card personalization solutions.

We consider our
direct competition in bar code label and receipt printing to be producers of on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal label printing systems, printer-encoders, mobile printers and supplies. We also compete, however, with companies engaged in
the design, manufacture and marketing of printing systems that use alternative technologies, such as ink-jet and laser printing. Many of these companies are substantially larger than Zebra.

Dye sublimation, the technology used in our card printers, is only one of several commercially available types of equipment used to personalize cards. We also compete
with companies that produce identification cards using alternative technologies, which include ink-jet, thermal transfer, embossing, film-based systems, encoders, laser engraving and large-scale dye sublimation printers. These card personalization
technologies offer viable alternatives to Zebra’s card printers and provide effective competition from a variety of companies, many of which are substantially larger than Zebra. In addition, service bureaus compete for end user business and
provide an alternative to the purchase of our card printing equipment and supplies.

Our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors.
These factors include the reliability, quality and reputation of the manufacturer and its products; hardware and software innovations and specifications; breadth of product offerings; information systems connectivity; price; level of technical
support; supplies and applications



support offered by the manufacturer; available distribution channels; and financial resources to support new product design and innovation. We believe that
Zebra presently competes favorably with respect to these factors.

We face competition from many competitors, including the following (listed in
alphabetical order): Altech; Argox; Avery Dennison; Boca Systems; Brother International; Canon; CIM; Citizen; CognitiveTPG; ColorX; Copal; Custom; Danaher; Datacard; Datamax-O’Neil, a unit of Dover Corporation; Dymo, a Newell Rubbermaid
Company; Epson; Evolis; Extech; Fargo Electronics; Fuji; Godex; Hewlett-Packard; Hitachi; Intermec Technologies; Lexmark International; LogickaComp; MagiCard; Matica; Microcom; Mitsubishi; NBS; Nisca; Oki Data; Olmec; Olympus; Practical Automation;
Printronix; Sato; Seiko Instruments; Shinko; Song Woo Electronics; Sony; Star Micronics; Taiwan Semiconductor; ToshibaTEC; Victor Data Systems; Woosim; and Xerox.

The supplies business is highly fragmented and competition is comprised of numerous competitors of various sizes depending on the geographic area.

Alternative Printer Technologies

We believe thermal printing will be the label, card and receipt printer technology of choice in
Zebra’s target applications for the foreseeable future. Among the many advantages of direct thermal and thermal transfer printing is the ability to print high-resolution, durable images on a wide variety of label materials at relatively low
costs and high speeds compared with alternative printing technologies. We view passive RFID smart label encoding and active RFID location systems as complementary technologies to bar coded printing, offering growth opportunities to Zebra as the
technologies become more widely adopted.

If other technologies were to evolve or become available to Zebra, it is possible that those technologies would
be incorporated into our products. Alternatively, if such technologies were to evolve or become available to our competitors, Zebra’s products may become obsolete. This obsolescence would have a significant negative effect on Zebra’s
business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Therefore, we continually assess competitive and complementary methods of bar code
printing and other means of automatic identification. Alternative print technologies assessed include ink jet, laser and direct marking. While we cannot be sure that new technology will not supplant thermal printing for labels, cards and receipts,
we are not aware of any developing technology that offers the advantages of thermal printing for our targeted applications. We continually monitor and evaluate new RFID technologies, support their standards development, and rapidly adopt RFID into
new Zebra products and systems as new markets and applications emerge.

Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group (ESG)

Formed in 2008 based upon the acquired businesses of Navis Holdings, LLC, WhereNet Corp., proveo AG, and Multispectral Solutions Inc., Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group
offers asset tracking and management solutions to optimize the flow of goods in complex logistical operations. Whether tracking containers and cargo through a major port, managing parts for lean manufacturing or managing ground support equipment at
a major airport, the automated asset tracking and management solutions from ESG improve business processes. Utilizing the combined products offered by these businesses, ESG provides greater asset visibility and business efficiency for the aerospace
and defense, aviation, automotive, industrial manufacturing, maritime, and transportation and logistics industries. Customers within these industries benefit by increasing productivity, lowering operational costs, and improving safety and security
throughout their logistics operations.

A substantial majority of ESG’s business consists of perpetual software licenses and related services
including maintenance, support and consulting services. In addition, ESG sells hardware including our proprietary real time asset management hardware. These products and services may be bundled and sold together to customers or sold separately.

•

Software Licenses

. We sell perpetual software licenses on a fixed fee basis. The amounts of the license fees are based primarily on the scope and
functionality of the licenses purchased by the customer. The solutions we provide may also include third-party software.



•

Hardware

. We sell both proprietary and third-party real time asset management hardware. Most of our hardware products provide electronic tagging of assets
and real time information regarding the assets’ locations and telematics. We sell the hardware as part of integrated solutions and as replacement for other parts.

•

Consulting Services

. We provide consulting services for the planning and implementation of our solutions including initial installation and training.
Zebra’s professional services team works with customers who are implementing our applications for the first time, evaluating new technology automation solutions, integrating with third-party systems or upgrading to new platforms. Services are
typically charged on a time and materials basis, although from time-to-time we may enter into fixed fee contracts.

•

Maintenance and Support

. We offer support to our customers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, usually for an annual fee, which entitles them to
software upgrades and technical support.

We believe ESG is uniquely positioned with a broad range of asset tracking and optimization
solutions to offer our customers. However, several competitors exist for each solution ESG provides. They include Aeroscout Inc., Trimble Technologies, Ekahau Inc., I.D. Systems Inc., Identec Solutions, Intermec Inc., and RF Code Inc., Cisco Systems
Inc., Lockheed Martin Corp., Roper Industries, Inc., Siemens AG, Motorola, Inc., Amicus, Pinnacle VTIS, IBM, Cosmos, and Tideworks Technology.

The ESG
products extend Zebra’s reach beyond passive RFID by employing technologically advanced hardware and software solutions to locate, track, manage and optimize high-value assets, equipment and people. We offer a wide range of scalable real time
locating systems (RTLS) technologies used to generate accurate, on-demand information about the physical location and status of high-valued assets. Customers benefit by utilizing the choice or combination of asset tracking products that can be
“application matched” based on ISO/IEC 24730-2, Cisco CCX Wi-Fi, precision global positioning systems (GPS), and ultra wideband (UWB) technologies.

Our selection of RTLS asset tracking product offerings includes battery-powered active RFID WhereTag™ tags, WhereCall™ button tags, and precision WhereTrack™ products. These asset tags enable organizations to access accurate,
real-time information on the location and status of their assets both indoors and outdoors.

In addition, we offer a selection of RTLS infrastructure
products. These products receive tag transmissions and forward the information to the Visibility Server Software™ (a middleware application) which provides location calculations, database and system management functions and asset visibility.
The flexible infrastructure supports large tag populations and coverage areas that can range from small to large.

We offer a broad set of software
development tools for integrating ESG hardware, middleware applications and software applications, with customer and third-party applications. Our middleware application, Visibility Server Software, provides software tools to design, configure,
operate and troubleshoot our RTLS products. Visibility Server Software serves as the central repository for all of the real-time location and communication data captured by the ESG RTLS infrastructure.

ESG sells its products and services into the following major vertical markets:

•

Airport Operations

. Our Airport Visualizer™ provides integrated aviation solutions and helps to optimize motorized ground support equipment and other
mobile assets/equipments on the pavement immediately adjacent to an airport terminal area or hangers (commonly referred to as the “apron”). This solution helps improve the operational efficiencies of mobile assets for the global aviation
industry which is faced with high costs in maintaining ample amounts of equipment, high fuel consumption, equipment misuse, rising gas emission and high levels of equipment congestion. As of December 31, 2008, our Airport Visualizer solution
helps to optimize the processes of approximately 1,200 airport ground service vehicles.

•

Marine and Rail Terminal Operations

. Installed and used at approximately 200 marine terminals around the world, our SPARCS™ (synchronous planning and
real time control system) terminal operating system (TOS) helps terminal operators optimize the flow of containers through the facility by managing the processes of a terminal operation. Zebra’s TOS provides users real-time visibility of
containers for better



scheduling and routing, among other benefits, to
lower costs, manage growth and minimize capital investments in land and berth space. Customers operating rail and truck terminals have begun to use our terminal operating system to improve their logistics operations as well. Our Powerstow

®

solution helps terminal operators optimize ship stowage to minimize total voyage cost and maximize efficiency. Powerstow

®

offers
easy-to-use planning tools that provide real-time visibility of stowage operations. It uses graphic tools along with proprietary software to help operators configure the placement of cargo on a ship, taking into account several parameters such as
weight and destination to improve safety and vessel utilization.

•

Distribution Operations

. Our Yard Management Solution Suite™ provides effective management over gate schedules and dock assignments by providing the
ability to track, in real-time, the location and status of all vehicles and their associated inventory throughout the shipping yard or dock. Our Yard Management Suite includes modules for dock and yard management, gate automation and scheduling for
enhanced security, enterprise asset visibility, and container tracking. These optimize dock and yard management solutions, improve customer support, lower operating costs and increase yard and dock capacity.

•

Manufacturing Operations

. We provide an integrated wireless infrastructure for real-time location, digital messaging, telemetry, and wireless networking
applications to give manufacturers the ability to continuously manage the physical location and status of their critical assets for improving lean processes within the core manufacturing functions.

ESG products and services are primarily sold through ESG’s global direct sales force which is organized around geographic and vertical markets. We complement our
direct sales through the use of other channels including systems integrators with particular vertical market expertise.

ESG’s proprietary software
and hardware are developed primarily by its internal team of engineers. Generally, our software is warranted for 90 days after going live to function consistently with its specifications, and our hardware is warranted to be free from material
defects in materials and workmanship for up to one year after purchase.

Customers

Zebra has sold over 7,500,000 thermal printers to customers as of December 31, 2008.

ScanSource, Inc., is our most
significant customer. Our net sales to ScanSource, an international distributor of Zebra SPG products, as a percent of our total net sales, were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Percent of net sales

15.4

16.5

17.1

No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during these years.

Sales

Net sales by product category for the last three years were
(in thousands):

The increase in service and software net sales in 2008 is due to our ESG acquisitions.



Net sales to international customers, as a percent of total net sales, were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Percent of net sales

54.5

52.1

50.0

We believe that international sales have the long-term potential to grow faster than domestic sales because of the
lower penetration of automatic identification applications outside North America. As a result, Zebra has invested resources to support our international growth and currently operates facilities and sales offices, or has representation, in 26
different countries.

Research and Development

Zebra’s research and development expenditures for the last three years were as follows (in thousands, except percentages):

We devote significant resources to developing new printing solutions for our target markets and ensuring that our
efficiently manufactured products maintain high levels of reliability. Research and development resources are also directed toward enhancing our enterprise solutions systems. The increase in research and development expenditures for ESG in 2008 is
mainly attributed to the acquisition of Navis Holdings, LLC late in 2007.

Intellectual Property Rights

Zebra relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws and contractual rights to establish and protect
its proprietary rights in its products. We have and actively protect many domestic and international trademarks. We hold 320 United States and foreign patents and have 171 United States and foreign patent applications pending pertaining to products.
The duration of these patents ranges from 2 to 23 years. The expiration of any individual patent would not have a significant negative impact on our business.

Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use some technology and information that we
regard as proprietary. Moreover, the laws of some countries do not afford Zebra the same protection to proprietary rights, as do United States laws. There can be no assurance that legal protections relied upon by Zebra to protect its proprietary
position will be adequate. While Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides certain competitive advantages, we do not believe that the legal protections afforded to our intellectual property are fundamental to our success.

Patents have become increasingly used by businesses generally as a strategic business tool and in recent years the number of patent applications and
grants has risen dramatically. As a result, it is increasingly important that Zebra takes appropriate steps to maintain and develop its own patent portfolio and reduce the risk of disputes involving third party intellectual property rights.

Other trademarks mentioned in this report are the property of their respective holders and include IBM, a registered trademark of International Business
Machines; Kodak, a registered trademark of Eastman Kodak; UNIX, a registered trademark of UNIX Systems Laboratories; MS/DOS and Windows, registered trademarks of Microsoft; SAP, a



registered trademark of SAP AG; Linux, a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds; and Accelio Present Central, a registered trademark of Accelio. Bluetooth is
a trademark owned by Bluetooth SIG and used by Zebra under license.

Employees

As of January 30, 2009, Zebra employed approximately 3,200 persons, of which 2,459 are a part of SPG, 545 are a part of ESG and the remaining are corporate employees. None of these employees is a member of a
union. We consider our employee relations to be very good.

Additional Information

For financial information regarding Zebra, see Zebra’s Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes, which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Zebra has two reportable segments for our
operations and products. Financial information about segments and geographic areas is found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Item 1A.      Risk Factors

Investors should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, as well as other disclosures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business, financial condition, operating results, and growth prospects.

Current economic conditions and market disruptions may adversely affect Zebra’s business and results of operations

.

Adverse economic conditions, in the
United States or internationally, or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business.

A substantial portion of our business depends on our customers’ demand for our products and services, the overall economic
health of our current and prospective customers and general economic conditions. As widely reported, financial markets throughout the world have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including extreme volatility in security prices,
severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial
institutions. These developments and the related general economic downturn will adversely impact Zebra’s business and financial condition in a number of ways, including impacts beyond those typically associated with other recent downturns
in the U.S. and foreign economies. The slowdown will likely lead to reduced information technology spending by end users, which has already adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect Zebra’s product sales. If the slowdown
is severe enough, it could necessitate further testing for impairment of goodwill, as well as the write-down of other intangible assets, beyond those already recognized. In addition, cost reduction actions may be necessary which would lead to
additional restructuring charges. The current tightening of credit in financial markets and the general economic downturn will likely adversely affect the ability of Zebra’s customers, suppliers, outsource manufacturer and channel partners
(e.g., distributors and resellers) to obtain financing for significant purchases. The tightening could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for Zebra’s products and services, could negatively impact Zebra’s ability to collect
its accounts receivable on a timely basis, could result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable being required, and in the event of the contraction in Zebra’s sales, could lead to dated inventory and require additional
reserves for obsolescence. Significant volatility and fluctuations in the rates of exchange for the U.S. dollar against currencies such as the euro, the British pound and the Brazilian real could negatively impact Zebra’s customer pricing
and adversely affect Zebra’s results.

Zebra is unable to predict the duration and severity of the current economic downturn and disruption in
financial markets or their effects on Zebra’s business and results of operations, but the consequences may be materially adverse and more severe than other recent economic slowdowns.

Zebra could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also
dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results.

Zebra may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services or products. For example, in 2007 and 2008 Zebra acquired WhereNet Corp., proveo AG, Navis
Holdings, LLC, and Multispectral Solutions, Inc., which together comprise what we refer to as the Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to Zebra. The process of integrating any acquired business,
technology, service or product into operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for
ongoing operations and development of the business. The expected benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including risks with respect to:

•

Difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities to Zebra,

•

The loss of key employees of acquired entities,

•

Ability of acquired entities to fulfill obligations to their customers,

•

The discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities,

•

The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected returns, and

•

The acquired entities’ ability to improve internal controls and accounting systems to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to
SEC reporting.



Moreover, Zebra may be unable to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully. Future acquisitions
could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses.

Zebra
Enterprise Solutions Group is a new business.

Prior to the purchases in 2007, Zebra had no experience operating businesses which are in the business conducted by Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group. The Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group provides
enterprise software solutions to customers which require implementation in complex environments over extended periods of time and use percentage-of-completion accounting, which has not been Zebra’s historic business.

Zebra may be a party to fixed price contracts particularly for its ESG Unit that could become unfavorable contracts.

From time to time
ESG may enter into contracts to provide services to customers for fixed fees. Such a contract could result in material loss to Zebra if the cost to perform such contract ultimately exceeds the fees earned on such contract.

Zebra is transferring final assembly of its thermal printers to Jabil Circuit and will be totally dependent on Jabil for the manufacturing of such
printers. A failure by Jabil to provide manufacturing services to Zebra as Zebra requires, or any disruption in such manufacturing services, may adversely affect Zebra’s business results.

Zebra expects this transfer to be complete by the
end of 2009. In an effort to achieve additional cost savings and operational benefits, Zebra has expanded its outsourcing activities to include the transfer of the final assembly of its thermal printers to Jabil Circuit’s facility in HuangPu,
China.

However, to the extent Zebra relies on a third party service provider such as Jabil for manufacturing services, Zebra may incur increased business
continuity risks. Zebra will no longer be able to exercise control over the assembly of its thermal printers or any related operations or processes, including the internal controls associated with operations and processes conducted by Jabil and the
quality of Zebra’s products assembled by Jabil. If Zebra is unable to effectively develop and implement its outsourcing strategy, it may not realize cost structure efficiencies and its operating and its financial results could be materially
adversely affected.

During the transition period, Zebra’s printers will be manufactured both in the United States by Zebra and in China by Jabil. If
Zebra is unable to effectively manage its inventory levels during the period of concurrent manufacturing, it may not have sufficient inventories to meet customer needs. At the same time, difficulty managing inventory during the transition could lead
to excess and obsolete inventory and related resulting losses.

In addition, if Jabil experiences business difficulties or fails to meet Zebra’s
manufacturing needs, then Zebra may be unable to meet production requirements, may lose revenue and may not be able to maintain its relationships with its customers. Without Jabil’s continuing manufacture of Zebra’s products and the
continuing operation of Jabil’s facility, Zebra will have no other means of final assembly of its thermal printers until Zebra is able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility,
which could be costly and time consuming and have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s operating and financial results.

The increased elements of
risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in foreign jurisdictions may lead to an increase in reputational risk. During periods of transition, greater operational risk and customer concern may exist regarding the continuity of a
high level of service delivery. The extent and pace at which Zebra is able to move manufacturing functions to Jabil’s facility and the extent to which its customers are affected by the transfer may be impacted by regulatory and customer
acceptance issues.

Although Zebra carries business interruption insurance to cover lost revenue and profits in an amount it considers adequate, this
insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, the business interruption insurance would not compensate Zebra for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact, both short-term and long-term, on relations with Zebra’s
existing customers resulting from Zebra’s inability to produce products for them.

A third party service provider such as Jabil will have access to
Zebra’s intellectual property, which increases the risk of infringement or misappropriation of this intellectual property.



Zebra has significant operations outside the United States and sells a significant portion of its products
internationally and purchases important components from foreign suppliers. In addition, the transfer of final assembly of its thermal printers to a Chinese facility began in 2008 and is expected to conclude in 2009. These circumstances create a
number of risks.

Zebra has significant overseas operations including, in particular, an increasing presence in China, which presents added risks. In addition, Zebra sells a significant amount of its products to customers outside the United
States. Shipments to international customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales.

Risks associated with operations,
sales and purchases outside the United States include:

•

Inadequately managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters,

•

Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, or increase costs of purchasing, in foreign countries,

•

Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following:

•

Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions,

•

Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets,

•

Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products, or put our foreign assets at risk,

•

Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringing products or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in
certain geographic territories,

•

Staffing and managing international operations may be unusually difficult,

•

A government controlled foreign exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of the Chinese

Renminbi Yuan,

•

The failure to implement and maintain adequate internal controls relating to these operations,

•

Transportation delays that may affect production and distribution of Zebra’s products, and

•

A limited telecommunications infrastructure.

Zebra may not be able to continue to develop products to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by rapid technological change.

To be successful, Zebra must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application
needs by continually improving its products as well as introducing new products and services to address user demands.

Zebra’s industry is
characterized by:

•

Rapidly changing technology,

•

Evolving industry standards,

•

Frequent new product and service introductions,

•

Evolving distribution channels, and

•

Changing customer demands.

Future success will
depend on Zebra’s ability to adapt in this rapidly evolving environment. Zebra could incur substantial costs if it has to modify its business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes.

Zebra competes in a highly competitive market, which is likely to become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging
technology and changes in customer requirements.

Zebra faces significant competition in developing and selling its systems. Principal competitors have substantial marketing, financial, development and personnel resources. To remain competitive,
Zebra believes it must continue to provide:

•

Technologically advanced systems that satisfy the user demands,

•

Superior customer service,

•

High levels of quality and reliability, and

•

Dependable and efficient distribution networks.

Zebra cannot assure it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in printers or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of market share, and could
require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing and customer



support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary
products. Any of these factors could reduce Zebra’s earnings.

Zebra is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the rapid increase
in the complexity of its business

. Zebra has grown rapidly over the last several years through domestic and international growth and acquisitions. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success
depends in part on our ability to manage our rapid growth and increased complexities of our business and the demands from increased responsibility on our management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us:

•

Manufacturing an increased number of products,

•

Increased administrative and operational burden,

•

Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth,

•

Increased logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations, and

•

Managing increasing international operations.

If we
do not manage these potential difficulties successfully, our operating results could be adversely affected.

Zebra sources some of its component parts
from sole source suppliers.

A disruption in the supply of such component parts could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results.

Infringement by Zebra or Zebra suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly.

Third parties may claim that Zebra or Zebra
suppliers violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third party’s patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from operating its business as planned, and may be required to pay
damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If
such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new technologies emerge, such as RFID, the intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, products involving such
technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties.

The inability to protect
intellectual property could harm Zebra’s reputation, and its competitive position may be materially damaged.

Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Copyrights, patents, trade
secrets and contracts are used to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy aspects of Zebra’s products or, without authorization, to obtain and use information which Zebra regards
as trade secrets.

Zebra may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects

. Zebra may
be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damage or personal injury, in the event our products present actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may
occur not only in Zebra’s own designed products but also in components provided by third party suppliers. A Zebra supplier has in the past provided us with defective lithium-ion battery packs which were subject to a product recall. Zebra
generally has insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and also seeks to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from
suppliers. However, due to the large and growing size of Zebra’s installed printer base, a design or manufacturing defect involving this large installed printer base could result in product recalls or customer service costs that could have
material adverse effects on Zebra’s financial results.

Larger orders may take longer to close and may not be completely fulfilled during a
particular quarter.

Zebra has been pursuing larger customer orders which typically involve a longer sales cycle. Such orders are more difficult to forecast, and whether a larger order is received by Zebra in a particular quarter or deferred to a
later quarter could have a material effect on the financial results of Zebra from quarter to quarter.



Zebra’s equipment is subject to U.S. and foreign regulations that pertain to electrical and electronic equipment,
which may materially adversely affect Zebra’s business.

These regulations influence the design, components or operation of such products. New regulations and changes to current regulations are always possible and, in some jurisdictions,
regulations may be introduced with little or no time to bring related products into compliance with these regulations. Zebra’s failure to comply with these regulations may prevent Zebra from selling our products in a certain country. In
addition, these regulations may increase our cost of supplying the products by forcing us to redesign existing products or to use more expensive designs or components. In these cases, Zebra may experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to
supply customers with products, or we may incur unexpected costs or operational complexities to bring products into compliance. This could have an adverse effect on Zebra’s revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase
the volatility of our financial results.

Zebra is implementing a new company-wide enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The implementation process
is complex and involves a number of risks that may adversely affect Zebra’s business and results of operations.

Zebra is currently replacing its multiple legacy business systems at its different sites with a new company-wide, integrated
enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle various business, operating and financial processes for Zebra and its subsidiaries. The new system will provide a variety of important functions, such as order entry, invoicing, accounts
receivable, accounts payable, financial consolidation, logistics, and internal and external financial and management reporting matters.

ERP
implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system hardware and software and implementation activities that can continue for several years. Such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is
extremely complex and requires transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Significant efforts are required for requirements identification, functional design, process documentation, data
conversion, user training and post implementation support. Problems in any of these areas could result in operational issues including delayed shipments or production, missed sales, billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. System
delays or malfunctioning could also disrupt Zebra’s ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of its consolidated operations, its financial position and cash flows, which could impact Zebra’s ability
to timely complete important business processes such as the evaluation of its internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Until the new ERP system is fully implemented, Zebra expects to incur additional selling, general and administrative expenses to stabilize the system, and there can be no assurance that other issues relating to the
ERP system will not occur or be identified. Zebra’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected if it experiences operating problems and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system and the
associated process changes, do not function as expected or give rise to the expected benefits

Economic factors that are outside Zebra’s control
could lead to deterioration in the quality of Zebra’s accounts receivables.

Zebra sells its products to customers in the United States and several other countries around the world. Sales are typically made on unsecured credit terms, which
are generally consistent with the prevailing business practices in a given country. A deterioration of economic or political conditions in a country could impair Zebra’s ability to collect on receivables in the affected country.

Zebra depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract and retain other key personnel.

The future success of Zebra is substantially
dependent on the continued service and continuing contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the service of any executive officer or other key employees could adversely affect business.

The ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees is important to Zebra’s long-term success. Competition for personnel in Zebra’s industry
is intense, and Zebra may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future.

Terrorist
attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect Zebra’s stock price, operations, and profitability.

The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001, caused major instability
in the U.S. and other financial markets. Possible further acts of terrorism and current and future war



risks could have a similar impact. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or
indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect Zebra’s facilities and operations or those of its customers or suppliers.

Taxing authority
challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves.

Zebra is subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we
may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to Zebra’s effective tax rate.

Item 1B.       Unresolved Staff Comments

Not applicable.



Item 2.      Properties

Zebra’s corporate headquarters are currently located in Vernon Hills, Illinois, a northern suburb of Chicago. Zebra conducts its operations from a custom-designed
facility at this location, which provides approximately 225,000 square feet of space. Approximately 113,000 square feet have been allocated to office and laboratory functions and 112,000 square feet to manufacturing and warehousing. This facility
was constructed in 1989 and expanded in 1993, 1995, 1996 and 1999. It is leased to Zebra under a lease terminating on June 30, 2014.

Zebra’s
principal facilities as of December 31, 2008, are listed below:

S – Specialty Printing Group; E – Enterprise Solution Group; C -
Corporate

In conjunction with our transition of printer manufacturing to a third-party manufacturer, we entered into a sale and leaseback transaction
during 2008 for our manufacturing facility located in Camarillo, California. In addition, during March 2009, we will be moving our corporate headquarters to Lincolnshire, Illinois, from the Vernon Hills, Illinois, facility and have, therefore,
entered into a lease at that location.

Zebra leases various other facilities around the world, which are dedicated to administrative, research and sales
functions. These other leases, solely or in aggregate, are not material to Zebra.



Item 3.      Legal Proceedings

See Note 17 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.

Item 4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.



PART II

Item 5.       Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
                    of Equity Securities

Stock
Information: Price Range and Common Stock

Our Class A Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol ZBRA. The following table
shows the high and low trade prices for each fiscal quarter in 2008 and 2007, as reported by the NASDAQ Stock Market.

Source: The NASDAQ Stock Market

At February 20, 2009, the last reported price for the Class A Common Stock was $17.03 per share, and there were 352 registered stockholders of record for
Zebra’s Class A Common Stock. In addition, we had approximately 28,000 stockholders who owned Zebra stock in street name.

Dividend Policy

Since our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. Zebra currently does not
anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.

Treasury Shares

During the fourth quarter of 2008, Zebra purchased 2,627,532 shares of Zebra’s Class A common stock as follows:

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

(1)

On October 27, 2008, Zebra announced that the Board authorized the purchase of up to 5,000,000 shares of Zebra common stock at prices to be determined at management’s
discretion. There was no expiration on the authorization. All shares authorized for purchase and reflected in the above table were authorized under the Board’s 2008 authorization. On February 17, 2009, Zebra announced that the Board
authorized the purchase of an additional 3,000,000 shares under the same terms.



Item 6.      Selected Financial Data

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (LOSS) DATA

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

(1)

Includes asset impairment charges of $157,600,000 and exit, restructuring and integration charges of $20,009,000.

(2)

Includes litigation settlement of $53,392,000 and insurance receivable reserve of $12,543,000.

(3)

Relates to the estimation of forfeitures on prior year compensation expense outstanding at the adoption date of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share Based Payment

. See Note 4 in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.

(4)

The decrease in cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments and marketable securities in 2007 and 2008 was principally the result of (i) our acquisitions of
WhereNet, proveo AG, and Navis during 2007 and our acquisition of Multispectral Solutions Inc., and (ii) purchase of our stock during 2008. See Note 5 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for further
discussion of the acquisitions.



(5)

Long-term obligations include deferred compensation and unearned revenue. See Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for further
discussion of the Deferred Compensation Plan.



Item 7.      Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Net sales for the fourth quarter of 2008, compared with the fourth quarter of 2007, decreased 0.4%,
compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. Sales weakness in our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) territory offset sales growth in Latin America, Asia Pacific and North America. In North America, strength in sales to large key accounts contrasted
with declining sales to channel partners and distributors. Sales by the Enterprise Solutions Group (ESG) businesses we acquired in 2007 and 2008 also had a positive impact on our overall sales performance for the fourth quarter of 2008. Lower gross
margin was affected by unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates and product mix. Operating expenses increased as a result of ESG related acquisitions and higher costs for exit, restructuring and integration, offset by reductions in operating
expenses to contain costs in the current difficult business environment. During the fourth quarter, we also took charges totaling $157,600,000 for the impairment of goodwill, intellectual property and other assets.

Sales for all of 2008 increased by 12.5% compared to 2007. All geographic regions contributed to this growth, which was also aided by sales related to the acquisitions
we made in 2007 to form our ESG business group. Gross profit margin also increased principally because of favorable foreign exchange rates and product mix due to higher margin ESG products. Increased operating expenses were due to our ESG
acquisitions, increased amortization of intangibles and costs related to the integration and restructuring of our businesses.

Results of Operations:
Fourth Quarter of 2008 versus Fourth Quarter of 2007, Year ended December 31, 2008 versus Year ended December 31, 2007

Net sales

Net sales by product category, percent change, and percent of total net sales for the three months and year ended December 31, 2008, and
December 31, 2007, were (in thousands, except percentages):

The increase in service and software revenue in 2008 is primarily due to the increased sales in ESG since that
business’ sales have a high concentration of service and software, and the Navis business, which constitutes a significant part of ESG, was not acquired until late in the fourth quarter of 2007.



Net sales to customers by geographic region, percent changes and percent of total net sales for the three months and year
ended December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2007, were (in thousands, except percentages):

Notable weakness in sales in EMEA from the economic downturn began in the third quarter of 2008 and continued into
the fourth quarter. This trend offset continued sales growth in our Latin America, Asia Pacific and North America regions. Service and software increased 85.3% for the fourth quarter of 2008 from the fourth quarter of 2007 principally due to the
recent acquisitions in ESG. For the fourth quarter, unfavorable foreign exchange movements decreased consolidated sales growth by 2.8 percentage points and EMEA sales growth by 7.0 percentage points.

For the full year, printer unit volume increased 5.7%, with particular strength in mobile printers. Average unit prices declined principally because of a shift in
product mix, with a decline in tabletop printers and relative strength of mobile and desktop printers. We also had ongoing strength in supplies, aftermarket and service revenues. Service and software increased 145.6% principally due to the recent
acquisitions in ESG. Favorable foreign exchange movements added 0.6 percentage points to consolidated growth for the full year and 1.7 percentage points to EMEA growth. Cash flow hedging activities decreased revenues by $12,354,000 for the full year
as a result of foreign exchange rates of hedging contracts being in excess of the actual month end foreign exchange rates.

Gross Profit

Gross profit information is summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

The decrease in gross profit margin for the fourth quarter was due to unfavorable movements in foreign exchange
movements and less favorable product mix in SPG, offset by higher margin ESG products gross margins. Foreign currency movements, net of hedging activities, decreased fourth quarter gross profit by $4,352,000. Foreign currency movements, net of
hedging activities, for the full year increased gross profit by $6,391,000.



Selling and Marketing Expenses

Selling and marketing expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

Selling and marketing expenses changes, compared to the same periods in 2007, are due to the following (in
thousands):

Selling and marketing expenses decreased in the fourth quarter due to a cost reduction program consisting
primarily of headcount reductions implemented during the second half of 2008 in response to the current difficult business environment. Offsetting that, in part, were changes related to the ESG acquisitions, which increased selling and marketing
expenses by $2,436,000 during the fourth quarter and $12,528,000 for the full year of 2008.

Research and Development Costs

The development of new products and enhancement of existing products are important to Zebra’s business and growth prospects. To maintain and build our product
pipeline, we made investments in research and development, summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

Quarterly product development expenses fluctuate widely depending on the status of ongoing projects. We are
committed to a long-term strategy of significant investment in product development. Changes in research and development costs, compared to the same periods in 2007, are due to the following (in thousands):

The increases are primarily related to the ESG acquisitions, which increased research and development costs by
$3,774,000 during the fourth quarter and $18,833,000 for the full year of 2008.



General and Administrative Expenses

General and administrative expenses are summarized in the table below (in thousands, except percentages):

Changes in general and administrative expenses, compared to the same periods in 2007, are due to the following (in
thousands):

General and administrative expenses decreased in the fourth quarter due to a cost reduction program consisting
primarily of headcount reductions implemented during the second half of 2008 in response to the current difficult business environment. Offsetting that, in part, were changes related to the ESG acquisitions, which increased general and
administrative expenses by $1,134,000 during the fourth quarter and $6,640,000 for the full year of 2008.

Amortization of Intangible Assets

Amortization of intangible assets increased $7,447,000 during 2008 due to our acquisitions of Navis, LLC in December 2007 and Multispectral Solutions,
Inc., in April 2008. See Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the recent acquisitions.

Asset impairment charges

During the fourth quarter, Zebra recorded asset impairment charges in the amount of
$157,600,000. These charges related to the write-down of assets related to our recent ESG acquisitions and intellectual property because of changes in valuations as a result of the current economic conditions and the business outlook. See Note 13 of
the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the asset impairment charges.

Exit,
restructuring and integration charges

For the fourth quarter of 2008, Zebra recorded exit costs in the amount of $3,514,000 related to the transfer of
our printer manufacturing to a third-party manufacturer and the closure of our Warwick, Rhode Island supplies manufacturing facility. We also recorded restructuring charges in the amount of $2,653,000 related to various organization changes we made
in December 2008 in order to reduce costs. Integration costs related to the combination of our most recent acquisitions to form the Enterprise Solutions Group and were $1,624,000 for the fourth quarter. For the year, exit costs were $13,997,000 and
integration costs were $3,359,000. See Note 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the exit, restructuring and integration charges.



Operating Income (Loss)

Operating income (loss) is summarized in the following table (in thousands, except percentages):

The operating loss for 2008 is the result of the impairment charges we recorded in the fourth quarter, which
totaled $157,600,000. See Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the asset impairment charges. Also significantly contributing to the operating loss in 2008 were
exit, restructuring and integrations costs of $20,009,000, offset by the WhereNet litigation/claim settlement of $5,302,000. See Note 22 for further information related to the exit, restructuring and integration costs and Note 5 for further
information related to the litigation/claim settlement.

Non-operating Income and Expenses

Zebra’s non-operating income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands, except percentages):

Cash and marketable securities balances and resulting investment income for 2008 have decreased substantially
compared to 2007 as a result of payments for recent acquisitions and for the repurchase of Zebra Class A common stock. During the third quarter of 2008, Zebra recorded losses on an auction rate security in the amount of $4,374,000 and on a
long-term equity investment which was included in other assets in the amount of $2,897,000. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the valuation of the auction rate securities. Excluding these write-downs,
Zebra’s annualized rate of return would have been 3.4% for 2008.

During 2007, we liquidated all of our interests in our partnership holdings. As a
result of these liquidations, we recorded investment income of $9,246,000 related to gains on the liquidations of the partnerships during 2007, $4,369,000 of which was recognized in the fourth quarter. Excluding these gains, Zebra’s 2007
annualized rate of return would have been 4.5% for the fourth quarter and 3.5% for the year.

Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter was 8.8% compared with 33.3% for the same quarter last year. For the full year of 2008, the effective income tax rate
was not meaningful because a substantial portion of the impairment charges were not deductible for income tax purposes. The fourth quarter effective income tax rate was also affected by the impairment charges. For 2007, the effective income tax rate
was 34.2%.



Net Income (Loss)

Zebra’s net income (loss) is summarized below (in thousands, except per share amounts):

The net loss for 2008 is the result of pre-tax impairment charges of $157,600,000 that we recorded in the fourth
quarter. See Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the asset impairment charges. Also significantly contributing to the net loss in 2008 were exit,
restructuring and integration costs of $20,009,000, offset by the WhereNet litigation/claim settlement of $5,302,000. See Note 22 for further information related to the exit, restructuring and integration costs and Note 5 for further information
related to the litigation/claim settlement.

Business Groups

Specialty Printing Group

(in thousands, except percentages)

Net sales in our Specialty Printing Group (SPG) decreased 3.1% during the fourth quarter of 2008 compared with the
fourth quarter of 2007. Year-over-year sales growth in our Latin America, Asia Pacific and North America regions offset sales weakness in EMEA related to more difficult general economic conditions in the territory. New printer products (defined as
printers released within 18 months prior to the end of the applicable fiscal period) as a percent of total printer product sales were as follows:

The diversity of our business across verticals and channels benefited us during the fourth quarter, compared to
the fourth quarter of 2007. SPG had its strongest quarter of the year with key accounts, which offset lower demand in the channel. In addition to shipments to retailers and small package delivery, we also experienced strong sales into healthcare,
government and mobile workforce.



Our international sales are denominated in multiple currencies, primarily the dollar, pound and euro. This directly
causes our reported sales to be subject to fluctuations based on changes in currency rates. To partially protect Zebra against these currency rate fluctuations, we hedge a portion of the anticipated euro-denominated sales. We estimate that foreign
exchange movements of the euro and the pound versus the dollar had a negative impact of $6,540,000 on sales, net of the hedging activities, during the fourth quarter of 2008. For the full year, there was a net positive impact of the currency rate
fluctuations and hedging activities of $5,586,000. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for a more detailed discussion of our hedging program.

Printer unit volumes and average selling price information is summarized below:

For 2008, unit volumes increased in our midrange and mobile printer lines while unit volumes decreased in the
high-end tabletop and card printer lines compared to the comparable periods in 2007. During the fourth quarter of 2008, average unit selling prices decreased in all printer product lines in large part due to the decrease in euro and pound exchange
rates.

Gross profit margin for SPG was affected by unfavorable changes in product mix and foreign exchange rates. Foreign currency movements, net of
hedging activities, increased gross profit by $6,391,000 for the full year and decreased fourth quarter gross profit by $4,352,000.

Operating expense
changes for SPG in 2008, compared to the same periods in 2007, are due to the following (in thousands):

The 2008 payroll and benefit cost increase includes approximately $550,000 for severance not related to the exit
activities. Exit costs relate to the transfer of our printer manufacturing to a third-party manufacturer and the closure of our Warwick, Rhode Island supplies manufacturing facility. Restructuring costs relate to organization changes made in
December 2008. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the exit and restructuring costs. Facility relocation costs relate to the move of our High Wycombe, UK
facility into a new location. Impairment charges relate to the write-down of intellectual property because of changes in valuations related to current economic conditions and the business outlook. See Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the asset impairment charges. Absent the exit and restructuring costs and impairment charges, the fourth quarter reductions in expenses reflect the cost reduction program
initiated during the quarter.



During 2008, we completed a sale and leaseback transaction for our manufacturing facility located in Camarillo,
California. Zebra received net proceeds of $14,796,000 against a net book value of $10,669,000. Of the $4,127,000 gain, $3,006,000 was deferred and will be applied against future rental payments, and $1,121,000 was recognized in general and
administrative expenses.

Enterprise Solutions Group

(in thousands, except percentages)

During 2007 and 2008, Zebra acquired four companies which have been combined to make up our Enterprise Solutions
Group (ESG). On January 25, 2007, we acquired WhereNet Corp., a provider of active radio frequency identification (RFID) based wireless solutions used to track and manage enterprise assets. On July 2, 2007, we acquired proveo AG, a
provider of complete hardware and software systems for tracking motorized vehicles using global positioning systems (GPS). On December 14, 2007, we acquired Navis Holdings, LLC, a provider of software solutions to optimize the flow of goods
through marine terminals and other operations managing cargo movement through ports and intermodal facilities. On April 1, 2008, we acquired Multispectral Solutions Inc., a global provider of ultra wideband (UWB) real-time locating systems and
other UWB-based technology. Together, these companies give Zebra the ability to deliver more high-value applications that help our customers identify, track and manage assets, transactions and people.

Gross profit margin for ESG in 2008 were significantly higher than in 2007 due to the margins of the software business added in late 2007, as a result of the Navis
acquisition, being significantly higher than the hardware business we had in 2007.

ESG results for the fourth quarter of 2008 reflect spending rates for
all of the businesses acquired during 2007 and 2008 that comprise ESG. The operating expenses for ESG for all of 2008 are not comparable to the operating expenses for 2007 because the operating expenses for 2007 do not include the financial results
for all of those businesses. ESG’s fourth quarter results also reflect a reduction in operating expenses during the second half of the year. These cost reduction efforts reduced ESG’s employee count by approximately 40. Operating expenses
for the fourth quarter and the full year reflect a write-down of assets in the amount of $142,920,000 related to our recent ESG acquisitions and intellectual property because of changes in valuations as a result of the current economic conditions
and the business outlook.



Increases in ESG operating expenses in 2008, compared to the same periods in 2007, are due to the following (in
thousands):

See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the WhereNet
escrow claim net settlement, Note 23 for further information related to acquisition integration costs, and Note 13 for further information related to the impairment charges.



Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2007 and 2006

Net sales

Net sales by product category, related percent changes and
percent of total net sales for 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in thousands, except percentages):

Ongoing strength in international territories, with notable growth in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) of
21.0% for the full year over 2006, helped drive overall sales growth in 2007. For 2007, sales growth benefited from a 12.4% unit volume increase spread broadly across our printer product lines, offset by a decline in average unit prices. Sales
growth also benefited from strong growth in service and software sales, which is a result of our recent acquisitions. Favorable foreign exchange movements added 3.9 percentage points to consolidated growth and 11.0 percentage points to growth in
EMEA for the fourth quarter.

Printer unit volumes and average selling price information is summarized below:

For all of 2007, printer unit volumes for nearly all printer categories increased, with notable strength in
mid-range, mobile and desktop printers. For the full year, lower average selling prices across the full line of printers in addition to a mix shift toward lower priced products resulted in a 2.8% decrease in the average selling price of printers
shipped.

Gross Profit

Gross profit information is
summarized below (in thousands, except percentages)

For the Year Ended

Gross Profit

Percent of

Net sales

December 31, 2007

$

417,118

48.0

December 31, 2006

358,420

47.2

Percent Change

16.4



The improvement in gross profit margin for 2007 was due to favorable foreign exchange movements and lower variances
offset by an unfavorable product mix change.

Selling and Marketing Expenses

Selling and marketing expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

For the Year Ended

Selling and

Marketing Expenses

Percent of

Net Sales

December 31, 2007

$    121,996

14.1

December 31, 2006

96,788

12.7

Percent Change

26.0

Higher selling and marketing expenses in 2007 compared to 2006 were a result of increased payroll costs of
$17,691,000, increased advertising and market development funding of $1,131,000, increased professional services of $472,000, and higher travel and entertainment expenses of $1,518,000. These increases were related, in part, to recent acquisitions,
which increased selling and marketing expenses by $9,255,000 during 2007.

Research and Development Costs

Research and development costs are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

For the Year Ended

Research and

Development Costs

Percent of

Net sales

December 31, 2007

$    57,600

6.6

December 31, 2006

48,959

6.4

Percent Change

17.6

For 2007, research and development expenses increased as a result of increased payroll costs of $6,950,000 and
higher professional services costs of $1,543,000. These increases were related, in part, to recent acquisitions, which increased research and development expenses by $7,387,000 during 2007.

General and Administrative Expenses

General and administrative
expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

For the Year Ended

General and

Administrative Expenses

Percent of

Net sales

December 31, 2007

$    81,356

9.4

December 31, 2006

62,656

8.2

Percent Change

29.8

For 2007, general and administrative expenses increased due to higher payroll costs of $12,911,000 and higher
information systems expenses of $1,546,000. These increases were related, in part, to recent acquisitions, which increased general and administrative expenses by $2,138,000 during 2007.

Settlement and Licensing Agreement with Paxar Americas, Inc.

During the third quarter of 2006, Zebra paid
$63,750,000 to settle all issues surrounding the litigation with Paxar Americas, Inc. Of this amount, $53,392,000 was included as operating expense. The remaining $10,358,000 was capitalized as an intangible asset related to future use of patents
and other licenses and is being amortized over 4 to 7 years resulting in an incremental charge of $456,000 per quarter.

Insurance receivable reserve

During 2006, a Zebra reseller filed for bankruptcy protection in Austria. At the time of the filing, the reseller owed various Zebra subsidiaries a
total of $12,065,000. The entire balance due to Zebra had been guaranteed by Condor Insurance, a Nevis-based insurance company through a United Kingdom insurance broker. During June 2006, Zebra initiated a suit in the U.K. courts to enforce the
guarantee. However, during the fourth quarter, we discovered that the



insurance company’s financial position was such that it was unable to pay the judgment awarded to us. We reviewed the situation and determined that a
loss is probable, and, therefore, reserved 100% of the balance due, which was $12,543,000 at December 31, 2006.

Operating Income

Operating income is summarized in the following table (in thousands, except percentages):

Non-operating Income and Expenses

Zebra’s non-operating income and expense items are summarized in the following table (in thousands, except percentages):

During 2007, we began liquidating all of our interests in our partnership holdings. As a result of these
liquidations, we recorded investment income of $9,246,000 related to gains on the liquidations of the partnerships during 2007.

Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate for 2007 was 34.2% versus 31.5% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate is a result of the increased impact in
2006 of permanent tax differences, including tax-exempt interest income, on the effective income tax rate due to lower taxable income as a result of the Paxar settlement. In addition, we reduced tax reserves in 2006 totaling $1,189,000 related to
the completion of various state tax audits and 2005 state income tax returns.

Income before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change

Zebra’s income before cumulative effect of accounting change is summarized below (in thousands, except per share amounts):

Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change

During the first quarter of 2006, Zebra adopted SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment,

using the modified retrospective approach. SFAS No. 123(R) requires entities to estimate the number of forfeitures
expected to occur and record expense based upon the number of awards expected to vest. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), Zebra accounted for forfeitures as they occurred as permitted under previous accounting standards. The requirement
to estimate forfeitures is classified as an accounting change, and SFAS No. 123(R) required a one-time adjustment in the



period of adoption. The one-time adjustment (cumulative effect of accounting change) related to the change in estimating forfeitures increased income by
$1,319,000, net of applicable taxes.

Net Income

Zebra’s net income is summarized below (in thousands, except per share amounts):

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of Zebra Technologies Corporation under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles require the use of
estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the information available.

Our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts in our financial statements. The following accounting policies comprise those that we believe are the most critical in understanding and evaluating Zebra’s reported financial
results.

Revenue Recognition

Product revenue is
recognized once four criteria are met: (1) we have persuasive evidence that an arrangement exits; (2) delivery has occurred and title has passed to the customer, which happens at the point of shipment provided that no significant
obligations remain; (3) the price is fixed and determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Other items that affect our revenue recognition include:

Customer returns

Customers have the
right to return products that do not function properly within a limited time after delivery. We monitor and track product returns and record a provision for the estimated future returns based on historical experience and any notification received of
pending returns. Returns have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, but Zebra cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience return rates consistent with historical patterns. Historically, our product returns
have not been significant. However, if a significant issue should arise, it could have a material impact on our financial statements.

Growth Rebates

Some of our channel program partners are offered incentive rebates based on the attainment of specific
growth targets related to products they purchase from us over a quarter or year. These rebates are recorded as a reduction to revenue. Each quarter, we estimate the amount of outstanding growth rebates and establish a reserve for them based on
shipment history. Historically, actual growth rebates have been in line with our estimates.

Price Protection

Some of our customers are offered price protection by Zebra as an incentive to carry inventory of our product. These price protection plans provide that
if we lower prices, we will credit them for the price decrease on inventory they hold. We estimate future payments under price protection programs quarterly and establish a reserve, which is charged against revenue. Our customers typically carry
limited amounts of inventory, and Zebra infrequently lowers prices on current products. As a result, the amounts paid under theses plans have been minimal.

Software Revenue

We sell four types of software and record revenue as follows:



•

Our Enterprise Solutions Group has

fixed fee software implementation projects

, for which we use the percentage of completion method for revenue recognition.
Under this method of accounting, we recognize revenue based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs. If increases in projected costs-to-complete are sufficient to create a loss contract, the entire estimated loss is charged to
operations in the period the loss first becomes known.

•

Our printers contain

embedded firmware,

which is part of the hardware purchase. We consider the sale of this firmware to be incidental to the sale of the
printer and do not attribute any revenue to it.

•

We sell a limited amount of

prepackaged,

or

off-the-shelf, software

for the creation of bar code labels using our printers. There is no customization
required to use this software, and we have no post-shipment obligations on the software. Revenue is recognized at the time this prepackaged software is shipped.

•

We sometimes provide

custom software

as part of a printer installation project. We bill custom software development services separate from the related
hardware. Revenue related to custom software is recognized once the custom software development services have been completed and accepted by the customer.

•

We recognize license revenue under Statement of Position No. 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition” (“SOP 97-2”), as amended by Statement of
Position No. 98-9, “Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions” (“SOP 98-9”), when (1) a signed contract is obtained; (2) delivery of the product has occurred; (3) the license fee is
fixed or determinable; and (4) collection is probable.

Maintenance and Support Agreements

We enter into post-contract maintenance and support agreements. Revenues are recognized ratably over the service period and the cost of providing these
services is expensed as incurred.

Shipping and Handling

We charge our customers for shipping and handling services based upon our internal price list for these items. The amounts billed to customers are
recorded as revenue when the product ships. Any costs incurred related to these services are included in cost of sales.

Zebra enters into sales
transactions that include more than one product type. This bundle of products might include printers, current or future supplies, and services. When this type of transaction occurs, we allocate the purchase price to each product type based on the
fair value of the individual products determined by vendor specific objective evidence. The revenue for each individual product is then recognized when the recognition criteria for that product is fully met.

Investments and Marketable Securities

Investments and marketable
securities at December 31, 2008, consisted of the following:

We classify our debt and marketable equity securities in one of three categories: trading, available-for-sale or
held-to-maturity. Trading securities are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term. Held-to-maturity securities are those debt securities that Zebra has the ability and intent to hold until maturity. All securities
not included in trading or held-to-maturity are classified as available-for-sale.

Trading and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost, adjusted for the amortization or accretion of discounts or premiums. Unrealized holding gains and losses on trading securities are included in earnings. Unrealized holding gains and losses,
net of the related tax effect, on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until realized. As of December 31, 2008, Zebra’s investments in marketable
debt securities are classified as available-for-sale. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, all of our investments in marketable debt securities with



maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term investments on the balance sheet due to our ability to hold them until maturity.

See Note 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for the fair value discussion of auction rate security investment valuations.

Accounts Receivable

We have standardized credit
granting and review policies and procedures for all customer accounts, including:

•

Credit reviews of all new customer accounts,

•

Ongoing credit evaluations of current customers,

•

Credit limits and payment terms based on available credit information,

•

Adjustments to credit limits based upon payment history and the customer’s current credit worthiness,

•

An active collection effort by regional credit functions, reporting directly to the corporate financial officers, and

•

Credit insurance on the majority of our international revenues.

We reserve for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and specific customer collection issues. Over the last three years, accounts receivable reserves varied from 0.6% to 3.3% of total accounts
receivable. Accounts receivable reserves as of December 31, 2008, were $2,734,000, or 1.8% of the balance due. We feel this reserve level is appropriate considering the quality of the portfolio as of December 31, 2008. While credit losses
have historically been within expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that our credit loss experience will continue to be consistent with historical experience.

Inventories

We value our inventories at the lower of the actual cost to purchase or manufacture using the first-in,
first-out (FIFO) method, or the current estimated market value. We review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on forecasts of product demand and production requirements for the subsequent
twelve months.

Over the last three years, our inventory reserves have ranged from 5.9% to 14.2% of gross inventory. As of December 31, 2008,
inventory reserves were $7,172,000, or 6.7% of gross inventory. We feel this reserve level is appropriate considering the quantities and quality of the inventories as of December 31, 2008.

Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill

We test
the impairment of goodwill each year or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We completed our annual assessment during June 2008 and determined that our goodwill was not impaired as of
the end of May 2008.

Goodwill of a reporting unit should be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that
would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Examples of such events or circumstances include:

•

Significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate,

•

Adverse action or assessment by a regulator,

•

Unanticipated competition,

•

Loss of key personnel,

•

More-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of,

•

Testing for recoverability under SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,

of a significant asset group within a
reporting unit,

•

Recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statement of a subsidiary that is a component of a reporting unit, or

•

Allocation of a portion of goodwill to a business to be disposed of.



Due to the deterioration of the economy and a significant reduction in the price of our stock, we performed an interim
test of our goodwill in the fourth quarter of 2008 and determined that the goodwill associated with our ESG segment was impaired. See Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this impairment charge.

We evaluate the impairment of identifiable intangibles and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not
be recoverable. Factors considered that may trigger an impairment review consist of:

•

Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results,

•

Significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business,

•

Significant negative industry or economic trends,

•

Significant decline in Zebra’s stock price for a sustained period, and

•

Significant decline in market capitalization relative to net book value.

If we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred and the undiscounted cash flow test has failed in the case of amortizable assets, we measure impairment based on projected discounted
cash flows using a discount rate that incorporates the risk inherent in the cash flows.

During the fourth quarter of 2008, we determined that certain
impairment indicators existed related to identified intangible assets in both our SPG and ESG businesses and conducted a special impairment test of intangibles. This test resulted in an impairment charge during the fourth quarter of 2008. See Note
13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this impairment charge.

Net intangible assets, long-lived assets and goodwill
amounted to $293,078,000 as of December 31, 2008.

Income Taxes.

On January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Interpretation (FIN) No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109

. According to FIN No. 48, we identified, evaluated, and measured the amount of income tax benefits to
be recognized for all of our income tax positions. During 2008, we recognized an increase of approximately $4,000,000 in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits related to a recent Zebra acquisition. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending
amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in thousands):

Zebra’s continuing practice is to recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters as part of
income tax expense.

Zebra concluded U.S. federal income tax audits for tax years 2005 and 2006, during 2008. The 2007 tax year is open to audit. As a
result of the concluded audits, additional income tax expense in the amount of $758,949 was incurred. In addition, interest expense in the amount of $146,937, net of tax benefits, was incurred. These amounts are included as part of current year
income tax expense. The tax years 2004 through 2007 remain open to examination by various state taxing jurisdictions. Tax authorities in the United Kingdom have completed income tax audits through tax years ending December 31, 2006.

Contingencies

We record estimated liabilities related to
contingencies based on our estimates of the probable outcomes. Quarterly, we assess the potential liability related to pending litigation, tax audits and other contingencies and confirm or revise estimates and reserves as appropriate.



For further information regarding material pending legal proceedings, see Note 17 in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K.

Stock-Based Compensation

As of December 31, 2008, Zebra had a general stock-based compensation plan and a stock purchase plan under which our stock was available for future grants and sales. We account for these plans in accordance with
SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment.

Zebra recognizes compensation costs over the vesting period of 1 month to 5 years. See Notes 2 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K for further information.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

As of
December 31, 2008, Zebra had $224,886,000 in cash, restricted cash, and investments and marketable securities, compared with $281,179,000 at December 31, 2007. The impact of foreign currency was a significant factor in our cash flow
changes in 2008. The pound exchange rate decreased from 2.00 at December 31, 2007 to 1.45 at December 31, 2008. Additional factors affecting these balances during 2008 include (note that changes discussed below include the impact of
foreign currency):

•

Operations provided a net cash increase of $138,282,000 primarily from net income after adding back non-cash items.

•

Accounts receivable increased $21,891,000 with $19,227,000 of the increase resulting from the impact of foreign currency. Days sales outstanding increased to 60 at
the end of 2008 from 59 at the end of 2007.

•

Inventories increased $26,222,000 as a result of our printer manufacturing being transferred to a third-party manufacturer. Of this increase, $11,460,000 resulted
from the impact of foreign currency.

•

Accounts payable decreased by $17,891,000 after the foreign currency impact of $22,533,000.

•

Deferred revenue increased $11,281,000 as a result of acquiring more long-term contracts in our ESG business.

•

Taxes payable decreased $1,002,000 due to the timing of tax payments made in 2008.

•

Purchases of property and equipment totaled $40,889,000.

•

Proceeds from the sale of our Camarillo facility were $14,796,000.

•

Purchase of Multispectral Solutions Inc., totaled $18,366,000, and an increase to the purchase price of Navis, LLC, was $222,000.

•

Intangibles increased $1,384,000 due to payments for licenses to use patents.

•

Net sales of investments totaled $67,499,000.

•

Purchases of treasury shares totaled $157,582,000. Zebra made open market repurchases of our shares under authorizations of the Board of Directors announced
August 1, 2007, February 25, 2008, and October 27, 2008.

•

Stock option exercises and purchases under the stock purchase plan contributed $7,145,000.

In February 2008, we announced that printer manufacturing is being transferred to a third-party manufacturer. This transition is expected to be completed by the end of
2009. See Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.

Contractual Obligations

Zebra’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008 were (in thousands):

Purchase obligations are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements,
primarily raw materials.



On August 14, 2008, Zebra entered into a revolving credit agreement for a five-year $100 million revolving credit
facility. The loans under this credit agreement will be available for general corporate purposes of Zebra and its subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business and other purposes permitted by the agreement. We have not yet drawn any funds under
this credit agreement.

Management believes that existing capital resources and funds generated from operations are sufficient to finance anticipated
capital requirements.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),

Business Combinations

, to create greater consistency in the accounting and financial reporting of business combinations. SFAS No. 141(R)
establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer in a business combination (i) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest,
(ii) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase, and (iii) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and
financial effects of the business combination. This statement applies to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and will generally affect acquisitions going forward.

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,

Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities – an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133.

This Statement requires enhanced
disclosures about an entity’s derivative and hedging activities and thereby improves the transparency of financial reporting. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after
November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. This Statement encourages, but does not require, comparative disclosures for earlier periods at initial adoption. Zebra does not believe this standard will have a material impact upon our
consolidated financial statements.

In April 2008, the FASB issued Financial Staff Position FAS 142-3,

Determination of the Useful Life of
Intangible Assets.

This position amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement No. 142,

Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.

The position intends to improve the consistency between useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under SFAS No. 141(R),
and other GAAP. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is prohibited. We have not yet determined the effect this standard will have on
our consolidated financial statements.

In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162,

The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

This statement identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with GAAP in the United
States. Any effect of applying the provisions of this Statement shall be reported as a change in accounting principle in accordance with SFAS No. 154,

Accounting for Changes and Error Corrections.

We have not yet determined the effect
this standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.

In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. EITF 03-6-1,

Determining Whether
Instruments Granted in Share-based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities,

(FSP EITF 03-6-1). FSP EITF 03-6-1 states that unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend
equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two class method. FSP EITF 03-6-1 becomes effective on January 1, 2009. We have not yet determined
the effect this standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.



Item 7A.       Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

Zebra is
exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates because of our large investment portfolio. As stated in our written investment policy, the investment portfolio is viewed as a strategic resource that will be managed to achieve above market rates
of return in exchange for accepting a prudent amount of incremental risk, which includes the risk of interest rate movements. Risk tolerance is constrained by an overriding objective to preserve capital across each quarterly reporting cycle.

Zebra mitigates interest rate risk with an investment policy that requires the use of outside professional investment managers, investment liquidity, and
broad diversification across investment strategies, and which limits the types of investments that may be made. Moreover, the policy requires due diligence of each investment manager both before employment and on an ongoing basis.

The following table sets forth the impact of a one-percentage point movement in interest rates on the value of Zebra’s investment portfolio (in thousands, except
per share data).

Because these securities are classified as available-for-sale under SFAS No. 115,

Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,

the impact of a one-percentage point movement in interest rates occurs over an extended period of time as investments are sold and the funds are subsequently reinvested.

Foreign Exchange Risk

We conduct business in approximately 100
countries throughout the world and, therefore, are exposed to risk based on movements in foreign exchange rates. We generally invoice customers in their local currency and have a resulting foreign currency denominated revenue transaction and
accounts receivable. We also purchase certain raw materials and other items in foreign currencies. We manage these risks using derivative financial instruments. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this form
10-K for further discussions of hedging activities.

The following table sets forth the impact of a ten percent movement in the dollar/pound and
dollar/euro rates measured as if Zebra did

not

engage in the selective hedging practices described above and in Note 16. It is based on the dollar/euro and dollar/pound exchange rates and euro and pound denominated assets and liabilities (in
thousands, except per share data).



Equity Price Risk

Zebra currently employs two investment managers. These investment funds use a variety of investment strategies, some of which involve the use of equity securities. Zebra utilizes a Value-at-Risk (VaR) model to determine the maximum
potential one-day loss in the fair value of its interest rate, foreign exchange and equity price sensitive instruments.

The following table sets forth the
impact of a ten percent change in the value of all equity positions held by Zebra’s investment managers (in thousands, except per share data).

From time to time, Zebra has taken direct equity positions in companies. These investments relate to potential
acquisitions and other strategic business opportunities. To the extent that it has a direct investment in the equity securities of another company, Zebra is exposed to the risks associated with such investments.



Item 8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements and schedule of Zebra are annexed to this report as pages F-2 through F-38. An index to such materials appears on page F-1.

Item 9.      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosures

Not applicable.



Item 9A.      Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of the end of
the period covered by this Form 10-K. The controls evaluation was conducted under the supervision of our Disclosure Committee, and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based on that
evaluation, our Chief Executive Office and Chief Financial Officer, have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that (i) the information required to be disclosed by us in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and (ii) information required to be disclosed by us in our reports that we file or submit under the
Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) in Internal Control-Integrated
Framework. Based on this assessment and those criteria, our management believes that, as of December 31, 2008, our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young
LLP, has issued an attestation report on Zebra’s internal control over financial reporting. That report is included on page 49 of this report on Form 10-K.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

In January 2008, Zebra began a program to update substantially all of its key
financial systems over a three year period. The requirements for internal controls over financial reporting are a fundamental element of the design and implementation of these systems. As pieces of these systems are implemented, we conduct
appropriate levels of testing and monitoring of the systems and update our internal controls over financial reporting with respect to the impacted areas. In 2008, we made additional changes to our controls and procedures as part of our ongoing
monitoring of our controls. However, none of these changes has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, and there were no other changes that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.

Inherent Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls

Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal controls
will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control
system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute
assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Zebra have been detected.

These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by
collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance



that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to
future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

On Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The
Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Zebra Technologies Corporation:

We have audited Zebra Technologies Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Zebra Technologies Corporation’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent
limitation, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Zebra Technologies Corporation maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Zebra Technologies Corporation as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings (loss), comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, and our report dated February 27, 2009 expressed an unqualified
opinion thereon.

/s/Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 27, 2009



Item 9B.     Other Information

Not applicable.



PART III

Item 10.     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

We have adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to Zebra’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Vice President, Finance. The Code of Ethics is posted on the Investor Relations – Corporate Governance page of
Zebra’s Internet Web site,

www.zebra.com,

and is available for download. Any waiver from the Code of Ethics and any amendment to the Code of Ethics will be disclosed on such page of Zebra’s Web site

All other information in response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement sections entitled “Election of Directors,” “Executive
Officers” and “Corporate Governance.”

Item 11.     Executive Compensation

The information in response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement sections entitled “Executive Compensation and
Certain Transactions,” “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Director Compensation,” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and “Compensation Committee Report.”

Item 12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
                   Matters

The information in response to
this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement sections entitled “Security Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information.”

Item 13.     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The information in response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement sections entitled “Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions” and “Corporate Governance.”

Item 14.     Principal Accounting Fees and
Services

The information in response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement section entitled “Fees of Independent
Auditors.”



PART IV

Item 15.     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

The financial
statements and schedule filed as part of this report are listed in the accompanying Index to Financial Statements and Schedule. The exhibits filed as a part of this report are listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 27

th

day of February 2009.

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the report has been signed below by
the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

All other financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information
is shown in the consolidated financial statements or related notes.


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Zebra Technologies Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Zebra Technologies Corporation (the Company) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and
the related consolidated statements of earnings (loss), comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Zebra Technologies Corporation at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
Zebra Technologies Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated February 27, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 27, 2009

F-2


ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Amounts
in thousands)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-3


ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (LOSS)

(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-4


ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

(Amounts in thousands)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-5


ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(Dollars in thousands)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-6


ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Amounts in thousands)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-7


ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1
Description of Business

Zebra Technologies Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (Zebra) design, manufacture, sell and support a broad range of
direct thermal and thermal transfer label printers, radio frequency identification printer/encoders, dye sublimation card printers, digital photo printers and related accessories and support software. These products are used principally in automatic
identification (auto ID), data collection and personal identification applications and are distributed world-wide through a network of resellers, distributors and end users representing a wide cross-section of industrial, service and government
organizations.

In 2007 and 2008, we acquired WhereNet Corp., proveo AG, Navis Holdings, LLC and Multispectral Solutions Inc., which we refer to as Zebra
Enterprise Solutions Group (ESG). In 2008, we integrated these businesses into a single business group and are reporting their results separately from our specialty printing business. Together, these ESG companies give Zebra the ability to deliver
more high-value applications that help our customers identify, track and manage assets, transactions and people. We consider these solutions natural adjacencies to our core specialty printing business. The solutions these companies provide are sold
on a contract basis and are typically installed over several quarters. These contracts cover a range of services, including design, installation and ongoing maintenance services.

Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation.

These consolidated financial
statements were prepared on a consolidated basis to include the accounts of Zebra and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts, transactions and unrealized profit were eliminated in consolidation.

Fiscal Calendar.

Zebra operates on a 4 week/4 week/5 week fiscal quarter, and each fiscal quarter ends on a Saturday. The fiscal year always begins on
January 1 and ends on December 31. This results in some fiscal quarters being either greater than or less than 13 weeks depending on the days of the week those dates fall. During the 2008 fiscal year, our quarter end dates were as follows:

•

March 29,

•

June 28,

•

September 27, and

•

December 31.

Use of Estimates.

These
consolidated financial statements were prepared using estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and Cash
Equivalents.

Cash consists primarily of deposits with banks. In addition, Zebra considers highly liquid short-term investments with original maturities of less than seven days to be cash equivalents.

Restricted Cash.

Zebra has two types of restricted cash agreements. In the Netherlands, we have an agreement with the import authorities to place €1,000,000
in a bank deposit account, which acts as security for the VAT payable. This deferment agreement allows Zebra to simply quote our deferment number at import and quickly clear customs without the need to pay VAT. The bank deposit account cannot be
accessed or used without cancelling the deferment agreement. The second type of restricted cash agreement primarily collateralizes the issuance of letters of credit.

Investments and Marketable Securities.

Investments and marketable securities at December 31, 2008, consisted of U.S. government and agency securities, state and municipal bonds, corporate bonds, and other
interests. Zebra classifies its debt and marketable equity securities in one of three categories: trading, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. Trading securities are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term.
Held-to-maturity securities are those debt securities that Zebra has the ability and intent to hold until maturity. All securities not included in trading or held-to-maturity are classified as available-for-sale.

Trading and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost, adjusted for the amortization or
accretion of discounts or premiums. Unrealized holding gains and

F-8


losses on trading securities are included in earnings. Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, on available-for-sale securities
are excluded from earnings and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until realized. As of December 31, 2008, all of our investments and marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale securities. In
addition, all investments in marketable debt securities with maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term in the balance sheet due to our ability and intent to hold them until maturity.

Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.

Accounts receivable consist primarily of amounts due to us from our normal business activities.
Collateral on trade accounts receivable is generally not required. Zebra maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable. The allowance is based on our assessment of known delinquent accounts. Accounts
are written off against the allowance account when they are determined to be no longer collectible.

Inventories.

Inventories are stated at the
lower of cost or market, and cost is determined by the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Manufactured inventories consist of the following costs: component, direct labor and manufacturing overhead. Purchased inventories consist of purchased costs
and purchasing overhead.

Property and Equipment.

Property and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization is computed primarily
using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the various classes of property and equipment, which are 30 years for buildings and range from 3 to 10 years for other property. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the
straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term or estimated useful life of the asset.

Income Taxes.

On January 1, 2007, we adopted
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation (FIN) No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109

. According to FIN No. 48, we identified, evaluated, and measured
the amount of income tax benefits to be recognized for all of our income tax positions. During 2008, we recognized an increase of approximately $4,000,000 in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits related to a recent Zebra acquisition. A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in thousands):

Balance at January 1, 2008

$          —

Additions based on tax positions related to the current year

4,000

Balance at December 31, 2008

$     4,000

Zebra’s continuing practice is to recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters as part of
income tax expense.

Intangible Assets and Goodwill.

Goodwill represents the unamortized excess of the cost of acquiring a business over the fair
values of the net assets received at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is no longer being amortized, as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

.

We test the impairment of goodwill each year or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We completed our
last annual assessment during June 2008. At that time, no adjustment to goodwill was necessary due to impairment. Due to the current economic conditions, we performed an additional assessment of our goodwill during December 2008 and found the
goodwill of our Enterprise Solutions Group to be impaired. As a result we recorded impairment charges related to goodwill of $113,679,000. See Note 13 for further information related to the goodwill impairment charges.

Goodwill of a reporting unit should be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the
fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Examples of such events or circumstances include:

—

Significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate,

—

Adverse action or assessment by a regulator,

—

Unanticipated competition,

—

Loss of key personnel,

—

More-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of,

F-9


—

Testing for recoverability under SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,

of a significant asset group within a
reporting unit,

—

Recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statement of a subsidiary that is a component of a reporting unit, or

—

Allocation of a portion of goodwill to a business to be disposed of.

We evaluate the impairment of identifiable intangibles whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered that might trigger an impairment review
consist of:

—

Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results,

—

Significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business,

—

Significant negative industry or economic trends,

—

Significant decline in Zebra’s stock price for a sustained period, and

—

Significant decline in market capitalization relative to net book value.

If we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred and the undiscounted cash flow test has failed in the case of amortizable assets, we measure impairment by comparing the carrying
value of the asset to its fair value, which is estimated using projected discounted cash flows using a discount rate that incorporates the risk inherent in the cash flows. Due to the current economic conditions, we performed an assessment of our
identifiable intangibles during December 2008 and found the several of our identifiable intangible assets to be impaired. As a result we recorded impairment charges related to identifiable intangible assets of $43,617,000. See Note 13 for further
information related to the asset impairment charges.

Intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships, current technology and patents and
patent licenses. These assets are recorded at cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average life of 10 years, which approximates the estimated useful lives. Accumulated amortization for these other intangible assets was
$23,394,000 and $24,658,000 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Revenue Recognition

. Revenue includes sales of hardware, supplies,
software and services (including repair services, extended service contracts, and professional services). Product revenue is recognized once four criteria are met: (1) we have persuasive evidence that an arrangement exits; (2) delivery has
occurred and title has passed to the customer, which happens at the point of shipment provided that no significant obligations remain; (3) the price is fixed and determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. We provide for an
estimate of product returns based on historical experience. Revenue related to extended warranty and service contracts is recorded as deferred income and recognized over the life of the contract. Professional services revenue is recorded when
performed. Zebra enters into sales transactions that include more than one product type. This bundle of products might include printers, current or future supplies, and services. When this type of transaction occurs, we allocate the purchase price
to each product type based on the fair value of the individual products determined by vendor specific objective evidence. The revenue for each individual product is then recognized when the earning process for that product is complete. We enter into
post-contract maintenance and support agreements. Revenues are recognized ratably over the service period and the cost of providing these services is expensed as incurred.

Zebra records payments to resellers of its product as reductions to revenue unless these payments meet the requirements for operating expense treatment under EITF 01-09

Accounting for Consideration Given by a
Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products).

See the market development funds accounting policy for further details.

Revenue includes all customer billings for shipping and handling charges. The related costs of shipping and handling revenue are recorded as cost of goods sold.

ESG has fixed fee software implementation projects, for which we use the percentage of completion method for revenue recognition. Under this method of accounting, we recognize revenue based on the ratio of costs
incurred to total estimated costs. Contract terms generally provide for progress billings on advance terms or based on completion of certain phases of the work. At December 31, 2008, unbilled revenue was $9,801,000 and receivables for contracts
in progress included in accounts receivable were $11,260,000. At December 31, 2007, unbilled revenue was $8,013,000 and receivables for contracts in progress included in accounts receivable were $10,748,000.

F-10


Research and Development Costs.

Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. These costs include:

•

Salaries, benefits, and other R&D personnel related costs,

•

Consulting and other outside services used in the R&D process,

•

Engineering supplies.

•

Engineering related information systems costs, and

•

Allocation of building and related costs.

From time
to time, Zebra will provide engineering and development services to third parties on a contract basis. Zebra does not guarantee the outcome of this research and does not retain any obligation to repay third party funding received for these contract
services. Since these services are not part of our standard product offering, we treat payments received under these arrangements as reductions to research and development costs.

Advertising.

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 totaled $7,318,000, $6,361,000 and $5,857,000, respectively.

Market Development Funds.

Zebra makes market development funds available to its resellers to support demand generation activity by the resellers. These funds
require the reseller to provide specific services or benefits to Zebra and substantiate the fair value of such. Zebra reimburses resellers for agreed activities up to the fair value of the benefit received by Zebra. These payments are treated as
marketing costs consistent with the requirements of EITF 01-9

, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products).

Any payments to resellers that do not meet these requirements
are recorded as reductions to revenue.

Warranty.

In general, Zebra provides warranty coverage of one year on SPG printers against defects in
material and workmanship. SPG printheads are warranted for nine months and batteries are warranted for three months. Warranty coverage for most ESG hardware products is similar, with coverage periods ranging from 90 days do one year depending on the
nature of the product. Battery based products, such as location tags, are covered by a 30 day warranty. For ESG software products, the warranty period is generally 90 days and provides coverage against defects in material and workmanship as well as
performance materially in compliance with the accompanying documentation. A provision for warranty expense is recorded at the time of shipment and adjusted quarterly based on historical warranty experience. The following table is a summary of
Zebra’s accrued warranty obligation.

In the European Union, we have an obligation to recycle printers. We reserve for this obligation based on the
number of new printers sold after August 13, 2005, and printers sold prior to that date that are returned to us upon our sale of a new printer to a customer. The following is a summary of Zebra’s accrued recycling obligation.

We reexamined the environmental recycling reserves based on our three years of experience of providing for such
reserves and decreased our estimate of the reserve. Therefore, we released $3,757,000 from the reserve during the second quarter of 2008.

F-11


Fair Value of Financial Instruments.

Zebra estimates the fair value of its financial instruments as follows:

In accordance with SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

, we
recognize derivative instruments and hedging activities as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measure them at fair value. Gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value are accounted for depending on the use of the
derivative and whether it is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. See Note 16 for additional information on our derivatives and hedging activities.

Stock-based Compensation.

At December 31, 2008, Zebra had a general stock-based compensation plan and a stock purchase plan under which shares of our common stock was available for future grants and sales, and which are
described more fully in Note 4. We account for these plans in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment

. Zebra recognizes compensation costs using the straight-line method over the vesting period of 1 month to 5 years.

The compensation expense and the related income tax benefit for share-based payments were included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings (Loss) as
follows (in thousands):

On August 31, 2007, Zebra announced the resignation of our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chairman of the
Board in conjunction with our announcement of his successor as CEO. Zebra entered into an executive transition agreement with the former CEO as of that date. The agreement specifies that his outstanding unvested options vested on that date and the
option exercise period will continue for the full original maximum term unaffected by his retirement. As a result, we recorded a modification charge of approximately $1,702,000 in 2007, representing the difference in fair value of the options before
and after modification.

F-12


Prior to adopting SFAS No. 123(R), Zebra presented all tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of
stock grants as operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows. SFAS No. 123(R) requires the cash flows resulting from the tax benefits from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized (excess tax benefits)
to be classified as financing cash flows. Excess tax benefits classified as financing cash flows were as follows (in thousands):

For the years ended December 31,




Excess tax benefits classified as financing cash flows

$


$


$

1,514

SFAS No. 123(R) requires entities to estimate the number of forfeitures expected to occur and record expense
based upon the number of awards expected to vest. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), Zebra accounted for forfeitures as they occurred as permitted under previous accounting standards. The requirement to estimate forfeitures is classified
as an accounting change, and SFAS No. 123(R) required a one-time adjustment in the period of adoption. The one-time adjustment (cumulative effect of accounting change) related to the change in estimating forfeitures increased income by
$1,319,000, net of applicable taxes, for the year ended December 31, 2006.

Deferred Compensation Plan.

Zebra has a deferred compensation plan
that permits directors, management and highly compensated employees to defer portions of their compensation. Zebra immediately pays deferred amounts into a Rabbi Trust, and plan participants select a method of investing these funds into hypothetical
investments. Zebra tracks the performance of these hypothetical investments in order to determine the value of each participant’s deferral. Zebra accrues the deferred compensation liability in other long-term liabilities as the amount that is
actually owed to the participants. Our deferred compensation liability was $3,323,000 as of December 31, 2008, and $3,950,000 as of December 31, 2007.

Foreign Currency Translations.

The consolidated balance sheets of Zebra’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using the year-end exchange rate, and statement of earnings items are translated using the average
exchange rate for the year. The resulting translation gains or losses are recorded in stockholders’ equity as a cumulative translation adjustment, which is a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Acquisition Costs.

Zebra periodically has external expenditures related to potential acquisitions. During 2008 and previously, these expenditures were recorded as
prepaid expenses until such time as Zebra either completed the transaction or abandoned the transaction. If the transaction completed, the costs were treated as part of the cost of the acquisition. If the transaction was abandoned, the costs were
expensed during the period in which it was abandoned. Beginning in 2009, Zebra will expense these costs as incurred in accordance with SFAS No. 141(R),

Business Combinations.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of

. Zebra accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal
of Long-Lived Assets

. The statement requires that long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the asset. If such assets are
considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair
value less costs to sell. See Note 13 for further information related to impairment charges.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),

Business Combinations

, to create greater consistency in the accounting and financial reporting of business combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) establishes principles and requirements
for how the acquirer in a business combination (i) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest, (ii) recognizes and measures the goodwill
acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase, and (iii) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. This
statement applies to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and will generally affect acquisitions going forward.

F-13


In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,

Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
– an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133.

This Statement requires enhanced disclosures about an entity’s derivative and hedging activities and thereby improves the transparency of financial reporting. This Statement is effective
for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. This Statement encourages, but does not require, comparative disclosures for earlier periods at initial
adoption. Zebra does not believe this standard will have a material impact upon our consolidated financial statements.

In April 2008, the FASB issued
Financial Staff Position FAS 142-3,

Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets.

This position amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine useful life of a recognized
intangible asset under FASB Statement No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.

The position intends to improve the consistency between useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB 142 and the period of expected cash
flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under SFAS No. 141(R), and other GAAP. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is
prohibited. We have not yet determined the effect this standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.

In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 162,

The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

This statement identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the preparation of financial statements of
nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with GAAP in the United States. Any effect of applying the provisions of this Statement shall be reported as a change in accounting principle in accordance with SFAS No. 154,

Accounting for Changes and Error Corrections.

We have not yet determined the effect this standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.

In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. EITF 03-6-1,

Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities,

(FSP EITF 03-6-1). FSP EITF 03-6-1 states that unvested share-based payment
awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two class method. FSP EITF 03-6-1
becomes effective on January 1, 2009. We have not yet determined the effect this standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.

Reclassifications

. Certain amounts in the prior years’ financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.

Note 3 Fair Value Measurements

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,

The Fair Value Option for
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities — Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115

. SFAS No. 159 permits entities to elect to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. Unrealized
gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected will be recognized in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. SFAS No. 159 was effective for Zebra on January 1, 2008. We have currently chosen not to elect the
fair value option for any items that are not already required to be measured at fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The adoption of SFAS No. 159 did not have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,

Fair Value Measurements

, which defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 was effective for our Company on January 1, 2008. However, in February 2008, the FASB released FASB Staff Position (FSP
FAS 157-2 — Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157), which delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in
the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). The adoption of SFAS No. 157 for our financial assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We do not believe the adoption of
SFAS No. 157 for our non-financial assets and liabilities, effective January 1, 2009, will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

As defined in SFAS No. 157, fair value is based on the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
In order to increase consistency and comparability in fair value measurements, SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that

F-14


prioritizes observable and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value into three broad levels, which are described below:

In determining fair value, we utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize
the use of unobservable inputs to the extent possible as well as consider counterparty credit risk in the assessment of fair value.

Included in our
investment portfolio are four auction rate security instruments, which are classified as available for sale securities and are reflected at fair value. However, due to recent events in credit markets, the auction events for the instruments held by
Zebra as of December 31, 2008, have failed. Therefore, the fair values of these securities are estimated utilizing broker quotations, discounted cash flow analysis or other types of valuation adjustment methodologies as of December 31,
2008. These analyses consider, among other items, the collateralization underlying the security instruments, the credit worthiness of the counterparty, the timing of expected future cash flows, estimates of the next time the security is expected to
have a successful auction, and Zebra’s intent and ability to hold such securities until credit markets improve. These securities were also compared, when possible, to other securities with similar characteristics.

Of the four auction rate security instruments, Zebra deemed one item to be other than temporarily impaired. Therefore, we have recorded the market value decline in the
amount of $4,374,000 for that security as an investment loss in the income statement. The decline in the market value of the other securities is considered temporary and was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the balance
sheet. Since Zebra has the intent and ability to hold these securities until they are sold at auction, redeemed at carrying value or reach maturity, we have classified them as long term investments in the balance sheet.

Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value as of December 31, 2008 are classified in the table below in one of the three categories described above (in
thousands):

1)

The fair value of forward contracts are calculated as follows:

a.

Fair value of forward collar contract associated with forecasted sales hedges are calculated using the midpoint of ask and bid rates for similar contracts.

b.

Fair value of regular forward contracts associated with forecasted sales hedges are calculated using the month-end exchange rate adjusted for the discount rate (3 month LIBOR rate).

c.

Fair value of balance sheet hedges are calculated at the month end exchange rate adjusted for current forward points unless the hedge has been traded but not settled at month end.
If this is the case, the fair value is calculated at the rate at which the hedge is being settled.

F-15


Based on changed conditions in the credit markets, Zebra changed our valuation methodology for auction rate security
instruments as noted above during the third quarter of 2008. Accordingly, these securities changed from Level 1 to Level 3 within SFAS No. 157’s hierarchy since Zebra’s initial adoption of SFAS No. 157 at January 1, 2008.

The following table presents Zebra’s activity for assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3)
as defined in SFAS No. 157, for the year ended December 31, 2008 (in thousands):

Note 4 Stock Based Compensation

As of December 31, 2008, Zebra had a general stock-based compensation plan and a stock purchase plan under which shares of our common stock were available for future grants and sales, and which are described
below.

On May 9, 2006, the stockholders of Zebra approved the 2006 Zebra Technologies Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2006 Plan), which
included authorization for issuance of awards of 5,500,000 shares under the 2006 Plan. The 2006 Plan became effective immediately and superseded the 1997 Stock Option Plan (the 1997 Plan) and the 2002 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (the
2002 Director Plan), except that the prior plans will remain in effect with respect to stock options granted under the prior plans until such options have been exercised, forfeited, cancelled, expired or otherwise terminated in accordance with the
terms of such grants. The types of awards available under the 2006 Plan are incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, performance shares and units and performance-based cash bonuses. Employees,
directors and consultants of Zebra and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the 2006 Plan. As of December 31, 2008, 4,002,771 shares were available for grant under the plan, and options for 1,208,901 shares were outstanding under the
2006 Plan.

The options granted under the 2006 Plan have an exercise price equal to the closing market price of Zebra’s stock on the date of grant.
The options granted to employees generally vest over a four or five-year period. These options expire on the earlier of (a) ten years following the grant date, (b) immediately if the employee is terminated for cause, (c) ninety days
if the employee is terminated involuntarily other than for cause, (d) thirty days if the employee voluntarily terminates his or her employment, or (e) one year if the employee’s employment terminates due to death, disability, or
retirement. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors administers the plan.

The following table shows the number of shares granted in 2008 and
the vesting schedules of the restricted stock awards that were granted under the Plan to certain executive officers and other members of management.

These restricted stock awards will vest at each vesting date if the executive remains employed by Zebra throughout
the applicable time period, but will vest before the end of the each vesting period in the event of death, disability, resignation for good reason, a change in control (as defined in the 2006 Plan), or termination by Zebra other than for Cause, as
defined in the restricted stock agreement entered into by Zebra with each executive officer who was granted restricted stock (the Restricted Stock Agreement). The restricted stock is forfeited in certain situations specified in the

F-16


Restricted Stock Agreement, including, if before the restricted stock vests, the executive’s employment is terminated by Zebra for Cause (as defined in
the Restricted Stock Agreement) or if the executive resigns for other than good reason.

The 1997 Plan was superseded by the 2006 Plan. As of
December 31, 2008, options for 1,609,141 shares were outstanding and exercisable under the 1997 Plan. These options expire on the earlier of (a) ten years following the grant date, (b) immediately if the employee is terminated for
cause, (c) ninety days if the employee is terminated involuntarily other than for cause, (d) thirty days if the employee voluntarily terminates his or her employment, or (e) one year if the employee’s employment terminates due to
death, disability, or retirement.

The 2002 Director Plan was superseded by the 2006 Plan. As of December 31, 2008, options for 186,068 shares were
outstanding and exercisable under the 2002 Director Plan. Unless otherwise provided in an option agreement, options granted under the 2002 Director Plan become exercisable in five equal increments beginning on the date of the grant and continuing on
each of the four anniversaries thereafter. All such options expire on the earlier of (a) ten years following the grant date, (b) the first anniversary of the termination date of the non-employee director’s directorship for any reason
other than the termination of the non-employee director’s directorship by Zebra’s stockholders for cause, or resignation for cause, in each case as defined in the option agreement.

In connection with Zebra’s acquisitions of Navis and WhereNet, Zebra assumed existing unvested stock options exercisable for shares of Navis’ common stock and
WhereNet’s common stock, respectively, and made them options exercisable for Zebra common stock. These new options have exercises prices and vesting dates based on their previous terms. The vesting dates extend in some cases until
April 30, 2011 for the Navis options and until October 23, 2010 for the WhereNet options. As of December 31, 2008, outstanding Navis and WhereNet options were exercisable for 87,277 shares and 47,787 shares, respectively.

The Board of Directors and stockholders adopted the 2001 Stock Purchase Plan and reserved 1,125,000 shares of Class A Common Stock for issuance under the plan.
Under this plan, employees who work a minimum of 20 hours per week may elect to withhold up to 10% of their cash compensation through regular payroll deductions to purchase shares of Class A Common Stock from Zebra over a period not to exceed
12 months at a purchase price per share equal to the lesser of: (1) 85% of the fair market value of the shares as of the date of the grant, or (2) 85% of the fair market value of the shares as of the date of purchase. As of
December 31, 2008, 732,051 shares have been purchased under the plan.

For purposes of calculating the compensation cost consistent with SFAS
No. 123(R), the fair value of each stock option granted is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial model. The following table shows the weighted-average assumptions used for stock option grants as well as the fair value of the options
granted based on those assumptions (excluding the Navis and WhereNet options):

The forfeiture rate is based on the historical annualized forfeiture rate, which is consistent with prior year
rates. This rate includes only pre-vesting forfeitures. Volatility is based on an average of the implied volatility in the open market and the annualized volatility of Zebra’s stock prices over our entire stock history. The risk free interest
rate used is the implied yield currently available from the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon yield curve over the contractual term of the options. The expected weighted-average life is based on the exercise price at the midpoint, which combines the average
life of the options that have already been exercised or cancelled with the exercise life of all unexercised options. The exercise life of unexercised options assumes that the option will be exercised at the midpoint of the vesting date and the full
contractual term. These assumptions are consistent with the assumptions used in prior years.

F-17


The fair value of the purchase rights of all Zebra employees issued under the Stock Purchase Plan is estimated using the
following weighted-average assumptions for purchase rights granted. Expected lives of three months to one year have been used along with these assumptions.

Stock option activity for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, was as follows:

The following table summarizes information about fixed stock options outstanding at December 31, 2008:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Aggregate intrinsic value

$    1,511,000

$    1,252,000

Weighted-average remaining contractual term

6.2 years

4.6 years

As of December 31, 2008, there was $21,418,000 of unearned compensation cost related to stock options granted
under the plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years.

Note 5 Business Combinations

Multispectral Solutions Inc.

On April 1, 2008, Zebra acquired all of the outstanding stock of Multispectral Solutions Inc. (MSSI) for $18,366,000, which is
net of cash acquired and includes transaction costs. Headquartered in Germantown, Maryland, MSSI is a global provider of ultra wideband (UWB) real-time locating systems and other UWB-based wireless technology. Zebra acquired this company to further
extend our range of solutions to help our customers identify, track and manage a broader range of assets. Zebra acquired this company to further extend our range of

F-18


solutions to help our customers identify, track and manage a broader range of assets. The Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) reflect the results of
operations of MSSI since the effective date of the purchase. The pro forma impact of this acquisition was not significant.

The following table (in
thousands) summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.

On a preliminary basis pending the receipt of final valuations, the purchase price was allocated to identifiable
tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values resulting in goodwill of $13,547,000. The intangible assets of $8,000,000 consist of the following (in thousands):

Amount

Useful life

Customer relationships

1,000

10 years

Developed technology

7,000

8 years

The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.

Navis, LLC.

On December 14, 2007, Zebra acquired all of the outstanding stock of Navis Holdings, LLC (Navis) for $144,066,000, which is net of cash acquired and transaction costs. Headquartered in Oakland,
California, Navis provides solutions to optimize the flow of goods through marine terminals and other operations managing cargo in the supply chain. Zebra acquired this company to further extend our range of solutions to help our customers identify,
track and manage a broader range of assets. The Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) reflect the results of operations of Navis since the effective date of the purchase. The pro forma impact of this acquisition was not significant.

The following table (in thousands) summarizes the adjusted fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.

The purchase price was allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on their estimated fair values resulting in goodwill of $76,693,000. The intangible assets of $58,400,000 consist of the following (in thousands):

Amount

Useful life

Trade names

$      2,300

2 years

Customer relationships

39,000

15 years

Developed technology

17,100

6 years

The goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.

F-19


proveo AG.

On July 2, 2007, Zebra acquired all of the outstanding stock of proveo AG for $20,224,000
(€14,866,000), which is net of cash acquired and transaction costs. Headquartered in Crailsheim, Germany, proveo AG provides integrated hardware and software systems that locate and track airport ground support equipment. Zebra acquired this
company to further extend our range of solutions to help our customers identify, track and manage a broader range of assets. The Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) reflect the results of operations of proveo AG since the effective date of
the purchase. The pro forma impact of this acquisition was not significant.

The following table (in thousands) summarizes the adjusted fair values of the
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.

The purchase price was allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on their estimated fair values resulting in goodwill of $16,331,000. The intangible assets of $4,176,000 consist of the following (in thousands):

The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.

WhereNet Corp.

On January 25, 2007, Zebra acquired all of the outstanding stock of WhereNet Corp., for $127,450,000, which is net of cash acquired and transaction costs. Headquartered in Santa Clara,
California, WhereNet provides integrated wireless real time locating systems (RTLS) to companies primarily in the industrial manufacturing, transportation and logistics, and aerospace and defense sectors. Zebra acquired this company to add a range
of solutions to help our customers identify, track and manage a broader range of assets. The Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) reflect the results of operations of WhereNet since the effective date of the purchase. The pro forma impact of
this acquisition was not significant.

The following table (in thousands) summarizes the adjusted fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities
assumed at the date of acquisition.

F-20


The purchase price was allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on
their estimated fair values resulting in goodwill of $87,482,000. The future benefit of the acquired net operating loss of $28,815,000 is included in the net deferred tax assets. The intangible assets of $30,616,000 consist of the following (in
thousands):

The acquired in-process research and development of $1,853,000 was written-off at the date of the acquisition in
accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4,

Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method

. Acquired in-process technology is stated separately in the operating expense section of
the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss).

The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.

As part of the acquisition closing, an escrow balance of approximately $13,600,000 was established against the total purchase price. On January 24, 2008, Zebra
filed an indemnification claim against the sellers of WhereNet for the entire escrow balance, alleging that Zebra was entitled to indemnification from the former shareholders of WhereNet as a result of, among other things, breaches of the
representations and warranties in the acquisition agreement and potential third party claims. Representatives of the shareholders disputed the allegations and filed a declaratory action to obtain the escrowed funds. The dispute was settled and the
complaint was dismissed in September 2008. In accordance with the settlement agreement, Zebra received $7,000,000 of the escrowed funds, and the remainder was distributed to the former shareholders and vested option holders of WhereNet pursuant to
the terms of the acquisition agreement.

Zebra agreed to make payments to its current employees that had been shareholders and vested option holders of
WhereNet to reimburse them for their pro rata portions of any share of the escrow funds that they did not receive due to Zebra’s recoupment of amounts from the escrow funds. Accordingly, we recorded expense in the amount of $1,698,000 related
to these payments. This expense was netted against the $7,000,000 received from the escrow settlement and is shown on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) on a separate line titled litigation/claim settlement.

Note 6 Stockholders’ Equity

Share count and par value data
related to stockholders’ equity are as follows:

December 31,


December 31,


Preferred Stock

Par value per share

Shares authorized

Shares
outstanding

$          
0.01

10,000,000

—

$          0.01

10,000,000

—

Common Stock—Class A

Par value per share

Shares authorized

Shares issued

Shares
outstanding

$          0.01

150,000,000

72,151,857

60,861,592

$           0.01

150,000,000

72,151,857

66,370,248

Treasury stock

Shares held

11,290,265

5,781,609

During the year ended December 31, 2008, Zebra purchased 6,008,232 shares of Zebra Class A Common Stock
for $157,582,000. We reissued 499,576 treasury shares during 2008 upon exercise of stock options, purchases under the stock purchase plan and issuances of restricted stock.

Stockholder Rights Agreement.

Zebra’s Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Agreement under which stock purchase rights were paid by dividend to stockholders of record on March 15, 2002 at
the rate of one Class A Right for each outstanding share of Class A Common Stock. Each Class A Right, other than those held by the

F-21


acquiring person, entitles the registered holder to purchase one ten-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01
per share, at a price of $300 per one ten-thousandth of Class A Preferred Share after the distribution date. The distribution date is 10 days after the date on which any person or group announces that it has acquired 15% or more of Zebra’s
outstanding common stock or 10 days (or a later date as determined by the Board of Directors) after the date on which any person or group announces or commences a tender offer that would result in the person or group becoming an owner of 15% or more
of the outstanding common stock.

The Rights will expire on March 14, 2012 unless that date has been extended by the Board of Directors or unless the
Rights are redeemed or terminated earlier. A committee of Zebra’s independent directors will review the Rights Plan at least every three years and decide whether it should continue or be revoked. Zebra generally may amend the Rights Plan or
redeem the Rights at $0.001 per Right at any time prior to the time a person or group has acquired at least 15% of the outstanding common stock.

Note 7
Earnings (Loss) Per Share

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, earnings (loss) per share before cumulative effect of the
accounting change were computed as follows (in thousands, except per-share amounts):

For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, earnings (loss) per share after the cumulative effect
of the accounting change were computed as follows (in thousands, except per-share amounts):

F-22


The potentially dilutive securities that were excluded from the earnings (loss) per share calculation consist of stock
options with an exercise price greater than the average market price of the Class A Common Stock. These options were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Potentially dilutive shares

2,217,940

1,561,918

1,140,689

Note 8 Investments and Marketable Securities

We classify our investments in marketable debt securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the classifications defined in SFAS No. 115,

Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.

As of December 31, 2008, all of our investments in marketable debt securities with maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term in the balance sheet due to our ability to hold them until maturity.

SFAS No. 115 requires that changes in the market value of available-for-sale securities are reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) caption
of stockholders’ equity in the balance sheet, until we dispose of the securities. Once these securities are disposed of, either by sale or maturity, the accumulated changes in market value are transferred to investment income. On the cash flow
statements, changes in the balances of

available-for-sale

securities are included in purchases, sales and maturities of investments under investing activities.

Changes in market value of

trading

securities would be recorded in investment income as they occur, and the related cash flow statement includes changes in the balances of trading securities as operating cash
flows.

The amortized cost, gross unrealized holding gains, gross unrealized holding losses and aggregate fair value of investment securities at
December 31, 2008, were as follows (in thousands):

The amortized cost, gross unrealized holding gains, gross unrealized holding losses and aggregate fair value of
investment securities at December 31, 2007, were as follows (in thousands):

*

Amounts are at original cost rather than fair value due to the use of the cost method of accounting.

F-23


Changes in unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are included in these financial statements as
follows (in thousands):

The following table shows the number, aggregate market value and unrealized losses (in thousands) of investments
with market values that were less than amortized cost as of December 31, 2008. These lower market values are caused by short-term fluctuations in interest rates and are not a reflection of the credit worthiness of the issuer. Market values are
expected to recover to the amortized cost prior to maturity.

As of December 31, 2007, the number, aggregate market value and unrealized losses (in thousands) of
investments with market values that were less than amortized cost were:

The contractual maturities of debt securities at December 31, 2008, were as follows (in thousands):

Using the specific identification method, the proceeds and realized gains on the sales of available-for-sale
securities were as follows (in thousands):

F-24


Note 9 Related-Party Transactions

Prior to August 2007, Zebra leased a building from Unique Building Corporation (Unique), an entity controlled by certain officers and stockholders of Zebra. On August 1, 2007, the building was sold to an
unrelated party. Lease payments made to Unique under the lease were recorded as a component of all functional areas and were included in the consolidated financial statements as follows (in thousands):

Unique

Operating Lease


$    1,358


2,336

Note 10 Inventories

The components of inventories, net of allowances, are as follows (in thousands):

Note 11 Property and Equipment

Property and equipment, which includes assets under capital leases, is comprised of the following (in thousands):

F-25


Note 12 Income Taxes

The geographical sources of income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change were as follows (in thousands):

Zebra’s intention is to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of all of our foreign subsidiaries in
accordance with APB Opinion No. 23,

Accounting for Income Taxes – Special Areas.

Accordingly, we have not provided for deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, which totaled approximately
$24,261,000 at December 31, 2008. Should such earnings be remitted to Zebra, foreign tax credits would be available to substantially offset the U.S. income taxes due upon repatriation.

The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in thousands):

The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed by applying the U.S. statutory Federal income tax
rate of 35% to income before income taxes. The reconciliation of statutory and effective income taxes is presented below (in thousands):

The amounts in the previous two tables include the tax on the cumulative effect of accounting principle of
$694,000 for 2006.

Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and such amounts as measured by tax laws. Based on management’s assessment, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized through future taxable earnings.

F-26


Tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):

Included in the line item, acquisition related items, above is deferred tax assets related to federal and state
net operating losses that resulted from the WhereNet acquisition. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $59,887,000 of federal net operating loss carryforwards available to offset future taxable income which expire in 2012 through 2022.
As of December 31, 2008, we also had approximately $19,283,000 of state net operating loss carryforwards which expire in 2012 through 2022. Zebra’s intention is to utilize these net operating loss carryforwards to offset future income tax
expense. Under the United States Tax Reform Act of 1986, the amounts of benefits from net operating loss carryforwards may be impaired or limited in certain circumstances, including significant changes in ownership interests.

Zebra concluded U.S. federal income tax audits for the years of 2005 and 2006 during 2008. The 2007 tax year is open to audit. As a result of the concluded audits,
additional income tax expense in the amount of $758,949 was incurred. In addition, interest expense in the amount of $146,937, net of tax benefits, was incurred. These amounts are included as part of current year income tax expense. The tax years
2004 through 2007 remain open to examination by various state taxing jurisdictions. Tax authorities in the United Kingdom have completed income tax audits through tax years ending December 31, 2006.

F-27


Note 13 Goodwill and Other Intangible Asset Data

Intangible asset data are as follows (in thousands):

In accordance with SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,

we test goodwill for impairment
on an annual basis or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. We performed our annual impairment test in June 2008, and determined that our goodwill was not impaired as of the end of May 2008.

The performance of the test involves a two step process. The first step of the impairment test involves comparing the fair values of the applicable reporting units with
their aggregate carrying values, including goodwill. We generally determine the fair value of our reporting units using the income approach methodology of valuation that includes the discounted cash flow method as well as other generally accepted
valuation methodologies. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, we perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of impairment loss. The second step of the goodwill
impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of the affected reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying value of that goodwill.

Due to
the deterioration of the economy and a significant reduction in the price of our stock, we performed an interim test of our goodwill in the fourth quarter of 2008 and determined that the goodwill associated with our ESG segment was impaired
requiring a charge of $113,679,000. The impairment charge was due to decreased sales and cash flow estimates in our ESG segment as a result of world-wide depressed economic conditions. As of December 31, 2008, these amounts are estimates and
may be adjusted during the first quarter of 2009 upon completion of a detailed second step impairment analysis.

F-28


Changes in the net carrying value amount of goodwill were as follows (in thousands):

During 2008, we acquired intangible assets in the amount of $1,384,000 for patents and other intellectual
property. These intangible assets have an estimated useful life of 2 to 9 years. In conjunction with our goodwill impairment testing, we also tested our identifiable intangible assets and found several of them to be impaired resulting in an
additional impairment charge of $28,937,000 to our ESG segment and $14,680,000 to our SPG segment. The impairment charges in our SPG segment were related primarily to radio frequency identification.

Note 14 Other Assets

Other assets consist of the following (in
thousands):

Note 15 401(k) Savings and Profit Sharing Plans

Zebra has a Retirement Savings and Investment Plan (the 401(k) Plan), which is intended to qualify under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualified
employees may participate in Zebra’s 401(k) Plan by contributing up to 15% of their gross earnings to the plan subject to certain Internal Revenue Service restrictions. Zebra matches each participant’s contribution of up to 6% of gross
eligible earnings at the rate of 50%. Zebra may contribute additional amounts to the 401(k) Plan at the discretion of the Board of Directors, subject to certain legal limits.

Zebra has a discretionary profit-sharing plan for qualified employees, to which it contributes a percentage of eligible payroll each year. Participants are not permitted to make contributions under the profit-sharing
plan.

Company contributions to these plans, which were charged to operations, approximated the following (in thousands):

F-29


Note 16 Derivative Instruments

In the normal course of business, portions of Zebra’s operations are subject to fluctuations in currency values. We manage these risks using derivative financial instruments.

Hedging of Net Assets

We use forward contracts and options to manage
exposure related to our pound and euro denominated net assets. We record gains and losses on these contracts and options in income each quarter along with the transaction gains and losses related to our net euro asset position. Summary financial
information related to these activities follows (in thousands):

Hedging of Anticipated Sales

We manage the exchange rate risk of anticipated euro denominated sales using forward contracts and option collars. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges. Gains and losses on these contracts are deferred in
other comprehensive income (loss) until the contracts are settled and the hedged sales are realized, at which time the deferred gains or losses will be reported as an increase or decrease to sales. Summary financial information related to the cash
flow hedges of future revenues follows (in thousands, except percentages):

Year ended December 31,




Net gain and (losses) included in revenue

$

(12,354)

$

(3,060)

$

(873)

The above 2008 gains and losses are the net pretax gains and losses released from other comprehensive income
(loss) into earnings during these years. We expect to release pretax losses in the amount of $32,000 from other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings during 2009 along with gains and losses on similar contracts entered into early in 2009.
Currently, the initial duration of our forecasted sales hedge contracts is eight months. Effectiveness testing is performed on each contract monthly. We have not experienced any gains or losses due to ineffectiveness. If we were to experience such
gains or losses, we would record them as a foreign exchange gain or loss. If we were to cancel or net settle a hedge designated as a cash flow hedge prior to the scheduled settlement date, we would recognize the gain or loss on that settlement
immediately as a foreign exchange gain or loss.

F-30


Note 17 Commitments and Contingencies

Leases.

Minimum future obligations under all non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2008 are as follows (in thousands):

Rent expense for operating leases charged to operations was as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Rent expense

$

15,695

$

10,675

$

9,011

The operating lease information includes a variety of properties around the world. These properties are used as
manufacturing facilities, distribution centers and sales offices. Lease terms range from one year to 17 years with breaking periods specified in the lease agreements.

During 2008, Zebra entered into a sale and leaseback transaction for the building we owned in Camarillo, California. The resulting lease has a term of 30 months and the minimum monthly lease payments are $111,850 with
no rent escalation clause. We are also moving our corporate headquarters from the current Vernon Hills, Illinois, location to a new location in Lincolnshire, Illinois as of March 1, 2009. The lease on this building has a term of 5 years, 4
months with minimum monthly lease payments beginning at $53,644 increasing approximately 2% per year through the end of the lease term.

Letters of
credit.

In connection with various customer contracts, Zebra has entered into three letters of credit agreements with a bank. The contingent liability of Zebra under these agreements as of December 31, 2008 is $756,000.

Revolving credit agreement.

On August 14, 2008, Zebra entered into a revolving credit agreement for a five-year $100 million revolving credit facility. The
loans under this credit facility will be available for general corporate purposes of Zebra and its subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business and other purposes permitted by the agreement.

This credit agreement is guaranteed by certain of Zebra’s domestic subsidiaries. Loans under the agreement shall bear interest at a rate equal to the prime rate or
a spread over the applicable LIBOR rate, as selected by Zebra. This spread for LIBOR-based loans is dependent on our ratio of Total Debt to EBITDA, as defined in the agreement, and ranges from 0.50% to 1.25%. The spread in effect at closing for
LIBOR-based loans was .50%.

The credit agreement includes customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants (including, among
others, restrictions on the payment of cash dividends) and events of default (and related remedies, including acceleration and increased interest rates following an event of default). It also contains financial covenants tied to Zebra’s
leverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio. As of December 31, 2008, we had established letters of credit amounting to $456,000, which reduce the funds available for borrowing under the agreement. At that date, no amounts were outstanding
under the credit agreement.

Legal proceedings.

On January 31, 2003, a Writ of Summons was filed in the Nantes Commercial Court, Nantes,
France, by Printherm, a French corporation, and several of its shareholders (collectively, “Printherm”), against Zebra Technologies France (“ZTF”), a French corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Zebra. Printherm seeks
damages in the amount of €15,304,000 and additional unspecified damages in connection with ZTF’s termination of negotiations in December 2000 respecting the proposed acquisition by Zebra of the capital stock of Printherm. The

F-31


negotiation was terminated based on unsatisfactory results of the ongoing due diligence. We believe that Printherm’s claims are without merit and that a
loss is not likely to occur. We will vigorously defend the action.

Printherm filed bankruptcy proceedings on August 30, 2004, and the Commercial
Court ordered its liquidation on November 30, 2004. A final hearing to consider statute of limitations and substantive arguments was held December 11, 2008. The Court is expected to enter a judgment on March 26, 2009.

On April 9, 2008, a complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois by Barcode Informatica, Ltd. (“Barcode”), a
former Brazilian reseller, against Zebra. The complaint alleges that Zebra wrongfully terminated Barcode’s reseller status and tortiously interfered with Barcode’s alleged bid for the sale of printers to Brazilian Post. Barcode’s
claim seeks an unspecified amount of damages. We believe that Barcode’s claims are without merit and we will vigorously defend the action.

Note 18
Segment and Geographic Data

As a result of the acquisitions of WhereNet Corp., proveo AG, Navis Holdings, LLC, and Multispectral Solutions Inc., Zebra
now has two reportable segments: Specialty Printing Group (SPG) and Enterprise Solutions Group (ESG).

SPG includes direct thermal and thermal transfer
label and receipt printers, passive radio frequency identification (RFID) printer/encoders, dye sublimation card printers and digital photo printers. Also included in this group is a comprehensive range of specialty supplies consisting of
self-adhesive labels, thermal transfer ribbons, thermal printheads, batteries and other accessories, including software for label design and printer network management.

ESG has evolved since the beginning of 2007 with the acquisitions of WhereNet Corp., proveo AG, Navis Holdings, LLC, and Multispectral Solutions Inc. The solutions that these companies provide are sold on a contract
basis and are typically installed over several quarters. These contracts cover a range of services, including design, installation and ongoing maintenance services.

The accounting policies for reportable segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies except that Zebra records its federal and state deferred tax assets and liabilities in
corporate and other. Intersegment sales are not significant.

Segment information is as follows (in thousands):

F-32


Corporate and other includes corporate administration costs or assets that support both reporting segments.

Prior period amounts have been restated to conform to requirements of SFAS No. 131,

Disclosures about Segments of and Enterprise and Related
Information.

Information regarding Zebra’s operations by geographic area is contained in the following table. These amounts (in thousands) are
reported in the geographic area of the destination of the final sale. We manage our business based on these regions rather than by individual countries.

Net sales by major product category are as follows (in thousands):

Hardware

Supplies

Service and

Software

Shipping

and

Handling

Cash Flow

Hedging

Activities

Total


$    704,992

$    172,106

$ 105,113

$  6,843

$ (12,354)

$  976,700


660,034

161,678

42,801

6,826

(3,060)

868,279


578,002

150,709

25,664

6,022

(873)

759,524

F-33


Note 19 Deferred Compensation Plan

Zebra offers a deferred compensation plan that permits directors and executive management employees to defer portions of their compensation and to select a method of investing these funds. The salaries that have been
deferred since the plan’s inception have been accrued and the only expense, other than salaries, related to this plan is the gain or loss from the changes to the deferred compensation liability, which is charged to compensation expense. To fund
this plan, Zebra purchases money market investments. Previously, Zebra purchased corporate-owned whole-life insurance contracts on the related employees, of which Zebra is the beneficiary. During 2007, the whole-life insurance policies were
liquidated and money market investments were purchased. The following table shows the income, asset and liability amounts related to this plan (in thousands):

Year ended December 31,




Gain on cash surrender value of life insurance policies/money market interest included in investment income

$


$


$


December 31,


December 31,   2007

Deferred compensation liability included in other long-term liability

$    3,323

$    3,950

Money market investments included in other assets

3,426

2,795

Note 20 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Stockholders’ equity contains certain items classified as other comprehensive income (loss), including:

•

Foreign currency translation adjustments

related to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the dollar. We
are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, month-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation
adjustments component of other comprehensive income (loss).

•

Unrealized holding gains (losses) on foreign currency hedging activities

relate to derivative instruments used to hedge the currency exchange rates for
forecasted euro sales. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transaction occurs. See Note 16 for more details.

•

Unrealized gains (losses) on investments classified as available-for-sale

are deferred from income statement recognition. See Note 8 for more details.

F-34


The components of other comprehensive income (loss) included in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(Loss) are as follows (in thousands):

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are as
follows (in thousands):

Note 21 Major Customers

ScanSource, Inc. is our most significant customer. Our net sales to ScanSource, Inc., an international distributor of Zebra SPG products related to automatic identification, telephony and security, as a percentage of
total net sales, were as follows:

Year ended December 31,




ScanSource

15.4

16.5

17.1

No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during these years.

Note 22 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities

During the
first quarter of 2008, we initiated two different plans to close facilities. These plans are being accounted for under SFAS No. 146,

Accounting for Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.

All exit costs associated with these
activities are identified on a separate line of our Consolidated Statement of Earnings (Loss), as part of operating expenses. These plans are intended to reduce costs and improve manufacturing efficiency.

F-35


In January 2008, we initiated a plan to close our supplies manufacturing plant in Warwick, Rhode Island. This
plant’s operations were transferred to a new facility in Flowery Branch, Georgia, which is now our East Coast supplies manufacturing facility. This transition was completed during the second quarter. We do not expect to incur any further costs
associated with this plan. Costs incurred through December 31, 2008 were (in thousands):

Type of Cost

Severance, stay bonuses, and other employee-related expenses

$        341

Other exit costs


Total

$        602

In February 2008, we announced plans to establish regional distribution and configuration centers, consolidate our
supplier base, and transfer final assembly of thermal printers to Jabil Circuit, Inc., a global third-party electronics manufacturer. These actions are intended to optimize our global printer product supply chain by improving responsiveness to
customer needs and increasing Zebra’s flexibility to meet emerging business opportunities. As a result, all printer manufacturing in our Vernon Hills, Illinois and Camarillo, California will be transferred to Jabil’s facility in Guangzhou,
China. This transition is expected to be completed by the end of 2009. As of December 31, 2008, we have incurred and expect to incur the following exit costs (in thousands):

During December 2008, Zebra made various organization changes in order to reduce costs. Affected employees
received both severance and outplacement services. The total cost of this action was $2,653,000 and was expensed in the fourth quarter of 2008. No future costs related to these organizational changes are expected to be incurred.

Liabilities and expenses related to exit activities for the year ended December 31, 2008, were as follows (in thousands):

All current exit costs are included in operating expenses for the Specialty Printing Group under the line item
exit, restructuring and integration costs.

Also included in the line item exit, restructuring and integration costs, are costs related to an integration
project to combine our most recent acquisitions of WhereNet Corp., proveo AG, Navis, LLC, and Multispectral Solutions, Inc., to

F-36


form the Enterprise Solutions Group. As a result, Zebra incurred $3,359,000 in acquisition integration expenses, primarily severance costs during 2008, which
are included in operating expenses as a separate line item.

Note 23 Quarterly Results of Operations (unaudited)

(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)

F-37


F-38


ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

Schedule II

Valuation and Qualifying
Accounts

(Amounts in thousands)

See accompanying report of independent registered public accounting firm.

F-39


Index to
Exhibits



Table of Contents