10-K


a06-1914_110k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington,
D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS

PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission
File Number 000-19406

Zebra Technologies Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)

Delaware

36-2675536

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

Corporate Woods Parkway, Vernon Hills, IL 

(Address of principal executive
offices)          (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number,
including area code:

(847) 634-6700

Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(b) of the Act:

None

Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Class A
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act).

Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Securities Act. Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Act).

Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Act).

Yes

o

No

ý

As of July 1, 2005, the aggregate market
value of each of the registrant’s Class A Common held by non-affiliates
was approximately $3,192,500,000. The closing price of the Class A Common
Stock on July 1, 2005, as reported on the Nasdaq Stock Market, was $44.28
per share.

As of February 23, 2006, 70,562,061
shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, were
outstanding.

Documents
Incorporated by Reference

Certain sections of the registrant’s Notice
of Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 9, 2006 are incorporated by reference into Part III
of this report.

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX


PART I

References in this
document to “Zebra,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to Zebra Technologies
Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically states
otherwise.

Safe Harbor

Forward-looking
statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent
upon a variety of important factors which could cause actual results to differ
materially from those reflected in such forward looking statements. These
factors include market acceptance of Zebra’s printer and software products and
competitors’ product offerings. They also include the effect of market
conditions in North America and other geographic regions on our financial
results. Profits will be affected by our ability to control manufacturing and
operating costs. Because of a large investment portfolio, interest rate and
financial market conditions will also have an impact on results. Foreign
exchange rates will have an effect on financial results due to the large
percentage of our international sales. When used in this document and documents
referenced, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “will” and “expect”
and similar expressions as they relate to Zebra or its management are intended
to identify such forward-looking statements. We encourage readers of this
report to review the Risk Factors portion of Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which discusses
additional risks. Zebra undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events, changed circumstances or any other reason after the date of this annual
report.

Item 1.

Business

The Company

Zebra Technologies designs, manufactures and distributes specialty
printing devices that print variable information on demand at the point of
issuance. These devices are used worldwide by manufacturers, service
organizations and governments for automatic identification, data collection and
personal identification in applications that improve productivity, deliver
better customer service and provide more effective security. Our product range
consists of direct thermal and thermal transfer label and receipt printers,
radio frequency identification (RFID) printer/encoders, dye sublimation card
printers, and digital photo printers. We also sell a comprehensive range of
specialty supplies consisting of self-adhesive labels, thermal transfer
ribbons, thermal printheads, batteries and other accessories, including
software for label design and printer network management.

We design our products to operate at the point of issuance to produce
and dispense high-quality labels, plastic cards, and photographs on demand. The
exceptional diversity of applications using our printer products for barcoding
and personal identification is comprised of routing and tracking, transactions
processing, and identification and authentication. They include applications
that require high levels of data accuracy and where speed and reliability are
critical. They also include specialty printing for receipts and tickets where
improved customer service and productivity gains may be the primary reason for
printing, rather than a barcoding application. Plastic cards are used for
secure, reliable personal identification or access control. Digital photo
printers are sold on an OEM basis to professional photographers and for use in
kiosks at retail and other locations.

Applications for our technology span most industries and geographies.
They include inventory control, small package delivery, baggage handling,
automated warehousing, JIT (Just-In-Time) manufacturing, employee time and
attendance records, file management systems, hospital information systems,
medical specimen labeling, shop floor control, in-store product labeling,
employee ID cards, driver’s licenses, and access control systems. As of December 31,
2005, management estimates that Zebra has sold almost 5,000,000 printers to
users in approximately 100 countries.

We believe competitive forces on businesses worldwide to strengthen
security, reduce costs, improve quality, deliver better customer service, and
increase productivity, support the adoption of bar code, RFID and specialty
printing applications because these technologies deliver significant and
predictable economic benefits. Industry-mandated compliance requirements for
bar code labeling and RFID tagging are also important catalysts in the
deployment of these systems. We also believe that companies are adopting
automatic identification systems that incorporate barcoding and RFID for
business improvement applications. Many of these applications make increasing
use of enterprise-wide resource planning (ERP) and other process improvement
systems in manufacturing and service organizations. Greater emphasis on supply
chain management, the drive to reduce errors in healthcare, and heightened
concern over safety and security will lead to increased use of automatic


identification systems. Still other applications are taking advantage
of recent advances in wireless and hand-held computing technologies.

Concern for safety and security and personal identification contribute
to demand for our card printer products. This concern has heightened interest
in systems that provide personal identification and access control, including
secure ID systems for driver’s licenses, employee and visitor badges, national
identification cards, event passes, club membership cards, and keyless entry
systems.

Zebra completed its initial public offering in August 1991. We are
organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, and our principal offices
are located at 333 Corporate Woods Parkway, Vernon Hills, Illinois 60061. Our
main telephone number is

(847) 634-6700 and our primary Internet Web site address is www.zebra.com. You
can find all of Zebra’s filings with the SEC free of charge through the
investor page on this Web site, immediately upon filing.

Products

Our printers are used to produce bar code labels, RFID “smart” labels,
receipts and tags, plastic cards, and photographs. We also sell related
specialty labeling materials, thermal ink ribbons, and bar code label design
and network management software. These products are used to provide bar code
labeling, personal identification, and specialty printing solutions principally
in the manufacturing, retail, service, and government sectors of the economy.
We work closely with distributors, resellers and end users of our products to
design and implement labeling solutions that meet their technical demands. To
achieve this flexibility, we provide our customers with a broad selection of
printer models, each of which can be configured for a specific application.
Additionally, we will select and, if necessary, create appropriate labeling
stock, ink ribbons and adhesives to suit a particular application. In-house
engineering personnel in software, mechanical, electronic and chemical
engineering participate in the creation and development of bar code labeling
solutions for particular applications.

Sales of hardware (printers and replacement parts) and supplies were as
follows (in thousands):

Label and Receipt Printers

We produce the industry’s broadest range of on-demand thermal transfer
and direct thermal label printers. Our printing systems include hundreds of
optional configurations that can be selected to meet particular customer needs.
We believe this breadth of product is a unique and significant competitive
strength, because it allows Zebra to satisfy the widest variety of thermal
printing applications.

Of the major printing technologies, which include ink jet, laser and impact
dot matrix, management believes that direct thermal and thermal transfer
technologies are best suited for most bar code labeling applications. Thermal
transfer printing produces dark, solid blacks and sharply defined lines that
are important for printing readily scannable bar codes. These images can be
printed on a wide variety of labeling materials, which enable users to affix
bar code labels to virtually any object. This capability is very important in
the industrial and service sectors Zebra serves. Direct thermal printing is
best suited where simplicity, lightweight and cost are important factors in the
application. Accordingly, this technology is found principally in Zebra’s
mobile and desktop units.

We offer 33 bar code printer models with numerous variations,
including:

Performance Tabletop Printers.

Zebra produces high-end printers
targeted at applications requiring continuous operation in high output,
mission-critical settings. These units provide a wide variety of optional
configurations, features, print widths, speeds and dot densities. We offer four
models under the XiIII Plus Series line. List prices range from $2,995 to
$7,495.

RFID Printer/Encoders.

Zebra
also manufactures and markets a growing line of printer/encoders used for radio
frequency identification (RFID) in the retail supply chain, for defense
logistics, and other applications. These units are used to print and encode “smart
labels” in a single pass. Smart labels are printable labels embedded with an
ultra-thin radio frequency


transponder. Information
encoded in these transponders can then be read and modified by a radio
frequency reader. As of December 31, 2005, we offered four RFID and two
RFID-ready printer/encoders, which have list prices from $1,695 to $6,995.

Mid-Range Tabletop Printers.

We offer six printer models designed
for less demanding applications. These units have fewer option configurations
and features for a lower price. Products in this category consist of the Zebra
Stripe

â

, S and Z Series as well as the TLP
2746e printers. List prices range from $1,145 to $3,490.

Desktop Printers.

Applications
with low volume suit Zebra’s desktop printers. We currently offer six desktop
models consisting of direct thermal and thermal printers in two-, three- and
four-inch widths. List prices range from $395 to $895.

Mobile Printers.

Zebra makes 8 mobile printer models,
which provide durability, light weight and wireless connectivity interfaces.
These printers print in two-, three- and four-inch widths and are marketed
under the Cameo, QL, TR, PS, PA/PT and RW lines. List prices range from $550 to
$4,795.

Print Engines.

Zebra’s
170PAX3 and 110PAX3 print engines are sold to manufacturers of high-speed
automatic label applicator systems. We also offer the R110PAX3 RFID print
engine targeted at emerging packaged goods RFID labeling applications.

In addition to their use in on-demand automatic identification
applications, our thermal printers can also be used for on-site batch production
of custom bar code labels and other graphics. This capability results in
shorter lead times, reduced inventory, and more flexibility than can be
provided with traditional off-site printing.

Card Printers

Zebra makes 11 card printer models for printing national identity
cards, driver’s licenses, employee identification badges, smart cards,
on-demand access control cards, gift cards and customer loyalty cards. These
cards can typically be printed in seconds for less than one dollar each. Users
can select from a number of printer options, including monochrome and color
printing, single- and two-sided printing, lamination, and magnetic stripe and
smart card encoding. Bar codes, smart chips and magnetic stripe encoding can be
used to record such personal data as health records, financial transactions,
security access codes and vital statistics. We offer two “c-Series” and nine “i-Series”
card printers. Printers in the “i-Series” incorporate features that
automatically optimize printer settings for a given ribbon. The list prices for
all of Zebra’s card printers range from $1,795 to $7,995.

Photo Printers

Digital photo printing is an extension of our core thermal printing
technology. With the November 2003 acquisition of Atlantek we began
producing digital photo printers;
we currently manufacture two printers jointly developed
with and marketed by Eastman Kodak. Our high-speed thermal photo printer
is sold as the Kodak Professional ML-500
Digital Photo Print System. The ML-500 is designed for
professional photographers for use in event and in-studio
printing and can print an 8x10 photograph in about 13 seconds. During the
fourth quarter of 2005, we introduced a second printer designed
to work as part of a photo kiosk or a standalone in professional
photography applications. We currently sell this printer on an OEM basis
to Eastman Kodak, which incorporates the printer into Kodak photo kiosks
and markets the standalone version as the Kodak Professional 9810
Digital Photo Printer.

Supplies

Supplies products consist of stock and customized thermal labels,
wristbands, smart labels and tags, plastic cards, card laminates, and thermal
transfer ribbons. Zebra promotes the use of genuine Zebra brand supplies with
its equipment.

Zebra fully supports its printers, resellers and end users with an
extensive line of superior quality, high performance supplies optimized to a
particular user’s needs. Supplies are chosen in consultation with the reseller
and end user based on the specific application, printer and environment in
which the labeling system must perform. In the case of bar code labeling
solutions, supplies also include proprietary ribbon and label formulations that
are designed to maximize printer performance and meet the most demanding end
user performance criteria. Factors such as adhesion, resistance to scratches,
smudges and abrasion and chemical and environmental exposures are all taken
into account when selecting the type of ribbon and labeling materials. The use
of supplies that are not carefully matched to specific printers can degrade
print speed and print quality.


Software

Zebra has specialized printer management, label design and driver
solutions to help unlock the full potential of Zebra printers. The ZebraLink
Solutions suite of networking, software, firmware, and printer management
products is designed for ease of integration and use, from small business to
enterprise supply chain applications. Our goal is to provide software that
enables high levels of functionality to all major computer network and software
systems. Network systems include Ethernet, 802.11 and Bluetooth™ wireless
systems. Operating systems include Windows, UNIX, Linux and various IBM systems

The ZebraNet Bridge Enterprise printer management application enables
organizations to efficiently deploy, manage and monitor Zebra printers from a
single location. Leveraging the powerful printer management features built into
many Zebra printers and Zebra print servers, ZebraNet Bridge Enterprise
delivers real-time printer error and status notifications for maximum up-time
performance. Easy to use and flexible tools within the program allow system
administrators to create highly manageable printer groups for real-time control
and monitoring of Zebra printers on their network.

Label design and integration software is specifically designed to
optimize the performance of Zebra bar code label printers. In 2005, we
introduced ZebraDesigner™ and ZebraDesigner™ Pro, label design and printer
configuration tools that bring greater ease of use and improved functionality
to the label design and printing process. Zebra also offers BAR-ONE for mySAPâ
Business Suite for users of the SAPâ ERP system. To facilitate using Zebra
printers with a broad range of software applications, Zebra offers Windows
printer drivers designed to optimize the printer experience.

To expand the global applications for its software and printers, we are
developing multi-lingual capabilities in our software and user interfaces.

Maintenance Services

For bar code label and receipt printers, we
currently provide service at depot repair centers at our Vernon Hills,
Illinois, Preston, U.K. and the Netherlands facilities. We also provide service
at a depot repair center in Toronto, Canada through a partnership with
Getronics. Zebra Authorized Service Providers (ZASP) also provide repair
services for most Zebra products at their locations. In addition, IBM and
National Service Center (NSC) provide on-site repair services in the United States.
We share the revenue for on-site service contracts sold by IBM and NSC for
Zebra printing systems installed in the United States, and with IBM in Europe.
Outside of the United States, Zebra’s resellers in each country may provide
maintenance service, either directly as ZASPs or through independent service
agents. Zebra also provides service and technical support assistance from
in-house support personnel located in the United States, the United Kingdom and
Singapore, who are available by telephone hotline five days a week during
regular local business hours. Also, for most Zebra products, Zebra provides
interactive technical support via the Internet, which can be accessed through
Zebra’s Web site, www.zebra.com, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

The card printer depot repair facilities are
located in Camarillo, California and Preston, U.K. Card printer resellers can
receive technical support assistance from in-house support personnel located in
the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore, who are available by
telephone during regular business hours. In addition, on-line support for card
printers can be accessed through the Web site, www.zebracard.com, 24 hours a
day, seven days a week.

Warranties

All Zebra printing equipment is warranted against defects in material
and workmanship for up to one year. Printheads are warranted for six months.
Zebra supplies are warranted against defects in material and workmanship for
their stated shelf life or twelve months, whichever ends first. Defective
equipment and supplies may be returned for repair, replacement or refund during
the applicable warranty periods.

Zebra’s Technology

Our products use thermal transfer, direct thermal and thermal dye
sublimation technologies. Each technology has characteristics that provide
specific benefits to the end user.

Thermal transfer printing is used in all performance and some
mid-range, desktop and mobile bar code label printers, as well as high-speed
print engines. This technology creates an image by applying an electrically
heated printhead to a ribbon that releases ink onto labeling/ticketing media.
The benefits of thermal transfer printing include superior image quality, the
ability to print on a wide variety of smooth-surfaced materials, no requirement
for specially coated or formulated labeling/ticketing media and the ability to
use inks that are not viable with alternative printing technologies.


Direct thermal printing is used in some mid-range, desktop and mobile printer
products. Direct thermal printing creates an image by applying the heated
printhead directly to specially treated paper, which changes color when heated.
Direct thermal technology is preferable where image durability is less critical
and where the application does not require specialty-labeling materials such as
plastics or metal foils.

Our card printers and digital photo printers incorporate thermal dye
sublimation for color printing. This capability allows for the creation of
personalized full color, photographic quality plastic cards and high-quality
photographs. Traditional photographic processes are both more expensive and
time consuming. We believe that personalized card applications such as driver’s
licenses, loyalty cards, school and work identification cards, security access
cards and financial transaction cards are well suited to this technology. The
growing acceptance of digital photography, over traditional halide-based
technology, offers growth opportunities for Zebra in certain areas of photo
printing.

Zebra’s printing systems incorporate Company-designed computer
hardware, electrical mechanisms and software, which operate the printing
functions of the system and communicate with the host computer. Zebra’s bar
code label printers operate using Zebra Programming Language (ZPL

â

),
Zebra Programming Language II (ZPL II

â

),
Eltron Programming Language (EPL) or Comtec Printer Control Language (CPCL),
each of which is a proprietary printer driver language. These languages are
compatible with virtually all computer operating systems, including UNIX,
MS/DOS

â

and Windows.

Zebra guarantees backward compatibility in ZPL and ZPL II to allow
users to replace older Zebra printers with newer equipment without costly
reprogramming of label design programs. This compatibility also allows users to
operate multiple Zebra printers in different applications using standardized
programs and to integrate these printers into a local area network. We believe
that ZPL and ZPL II give us a competitive advantage by ensuring compatibility
across a broad range of present and future printer products and by facilitating
system upgrades and customer loyalty to Zebra products. Some independent
software vendors have written label preparation programs with ZPL and ZPL II
drivers specifically for Zebra printers. ZPL and ZPL II label format programs
can be run on a personal computer with ordinary word processing programs,
making ZPL and ZPL II particularly adaptable to PC-based systems.

Zebra also sells radio frequency identification (RFID) printer/encoders
that can encode data into RFID transponders embedded in direct thermal or
thermal transfer printable labels. These “smart labels” are finding growing
acceptance in commercial and military supply chain management, as well as many
closed-loop proprietary tracking applications. Zebra-manufactured
printer/encoders and smart labels support both HF (13.56 MHz) and UHF (860-960
MHz) applications for RFID.

Sales and Marketing

Sales.

We sell our products primarily
through distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), and original equipment
manufacturers (OEMs). We also sell our products directly to a select number of
named accounts. For media and consumables, we also sell directly to end users
through the Internet and telesales operations. Distributors and VARs purchase,
stock and sell a variety of automatic identification components from different
manufacturers and customize systems for end-user applications using their
systems and application integration expertise. Because these sales channels
provide specific software, configuration, installation, integration and support
services required by end users within various market segments, these
relationships allow Zebra to reach end users throughout the world in a wide
variety of industries. Zebra experiences a minor amount of seasonality in
sales, depending on the geographic region and/or vertical market.

We
functionally classify our direct VARs as Premier Partners, Advanced Partners,
or Associate Partners, depending on their business competencies, depth and
breadth of their sales teams, customer support capabilities, contribution to
Zebra’s strategic goals, and sales commitment to Zebra. In addition, we offer
VARs the opportunity to earn certifications for mobile/wireless printers,
supplies, service and radio frequency identification (RFID) expertise.
Beginning in 2005, we have also added certifications for demonstrated expertise
in vertical markets that we have targeted for future growth. We also sell
through distributors, which in turn sell to an extended VAR community. All
VARs, as well as OEMs and systems integrators, provide customers with a variety
of automatic identification components including scanners, accessories,
applications software and systems integration expertise, and, in the case of
some OEMs, resell the Zebra-manufactured products under their own brands as
part of their own product offering. We believe that the breadth of this
indirect channel network, both in terms of variety and geographic scope,
enhances our ability to compete.

In some
instances, we have designated a customer as a Strategic Account when purchases
of Zebra products reach specified levels and support requirements for the
account become highly customized. Zebra sales personnel, either alone or
together


with our
partners, manage these Strategic Accounts to ensure their needs, including
consistent support for projects and applications, are being met.

The sales
function also encompasses a group that manages a small number of Global
Alliances. They direct the business development strategies for a limited number
of third-party relationships that are strategic to new demand creation for
specific vertical markets and/or specific applications.

Sales to international customers as a percent of net sales were as
follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Percent of
  sales

48.5

45.8

45.5

We believe that international sales have the long-term potential to
grow faster than domestic sales because of the lower penetration of automatic
identification applications outside North America. As a result, Zebra has
invested resources to support our international growth and currently operates
facilities and sales offices, or has representation, in 26 different countries.

Marketing.

Marketing operations encompass
marketing communications, product marketing, vertical marketing, solutions
marketing, market research and channel marketing functions. The product
marketing group identifies, evaluates and recommends new product opportunities
and manages product introductions, positioning and demand creation. Product
marketing also focuses on strategic planning and market definition and analyzes
Zebra’s competitive strengths and weaknesses.

Customers

Zebra has sold almost 5,000,000 bar code label and card printers to
customers in about 100 countries as of December 31, 2005.

Sales to ScanSource, Inc., a distributor of automatic
identification products, as a percent of net sales were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Percent of
  sales

15.6

14.1

13.8

No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during
these years.

Production and Manufacturing

We design our products to optimize product performance, quality,
reliability, durability and versatility. These designs combine cost-efficient
materials, sourcing and assembly methods with high standards of workmanship. We
assemble our products in-house largely on a configure-to-order basis using
components that have been sourced from around the world. We have the in-house
capability to produce mechanical and selected electronic assemblies and design
many of our own tools, fixtures and test equipment. Often, our manufacturing
and test engineers coordinate the development of new products with our new
product engineers and vendors. This collaboration increases manufacturing
efficiency by specifying and designing manufacturing processes and facilities
simultaneously with product design.

We buy prefabricated component parts and subassemblies for use in the
manufacture of our products. Critical subassemblies include printheads, power
supplies, integrated circuits, and stepper motors, which are obtained from
domestic and foreign suppliers at competitive prices. Purchase contracts
provide for price increases in the event of certain increases in the costs of
raw materials. Zebra typically experiences significant variance in demand thus
carries inventory and partners with key suppliers to deal with the variation.


Research and Development

Zebra had research and development expenditures as follows (in
thousands):

We devote significant resources to developing new printing solutions
for our target markets and ensuring that our efficiently manufactured products
maintain high levels of reliability.

Competition

Many companies are engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of
bar code label printers, card personalization solutions and dye sublimation
photo printers. We consider our direct competition in bar code label and
receipt printing to be producers of on-demand thermal transfer and direct
thermal label printing systems and supplies. We also compete, however, with
companies engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of printing systems
that use alternative technologies, such as impact dot matrix, ink-jet and laser
printing. Similarly, we consider manufacturers of card personalization systems
that are based on a broad range of alternative technologies as competition.

Dye sublimation, the technology incorporated in our card printer, is
only one of several commercially available types of equipment used to
personalize cards. We also compete with companies that produce identification
cards using alternative technologies, which include ink-jet, thermal transfer,
embossing, film-based systems, encoders, laser engraving and large-scale dye sublimation
printers. These card personalization technologies offer viable alternatives to
Zebra’s card printers and provide effective competition from a variety of
companies, many of which are substantially larger than Zebra. In addition,
service bureaus compete for end user business and provide an alternative to the
purchase of our card printing equipment and supplies. Manufacturers also use
dye sublimation technology in their digital photo printers.

Our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors.
These factors include the reliability, quality and reputation of the
manufacturer and its products; hardware and software innovations and
specifications; breadth of product offerings; information systems connectivity;
price; level of technical support; supplies and applications support offered by
the manufacturer; available distribution channels; and financial resources to
support new product design and innovation. We believe that Zebra presently
competes favorably with respect to these factors.

We face competition in one or more of our product lines from the many
competitors, including the following (listed in alphabetical order): Altech;
Argox; Canon; CIM; Cognitive Solutions, a subsidiary of Axiohm Transaction
Solutions; ColorX; Copal; Datacard; Datamax, a unit of Dover Corporation;
Evolis; Fargo Electronics; Fuji; Godex; Hewlett-Packard; Hitachi; Intermec
Technologies; Lexmark International; LogickaComp; MagiCard; Matica; Microcom;
Mitsubishi; NBS; Nisca; Olmec; O’Neil Product Development; Olympus; Paxar;
Poloroid; Printronix; Sato; Shinko; Song Woo Electronics; Sony; Taiwan
Semiconductor; Tokyo Electric Company; Victor Data Systems; Woosim; and Xerox

The supplies business is highly fragmented and competition is comprised
of numerous competitors of various sizes depending on the geographic area.

Alternative Technologies

We believe that direct thermal and thermal transfer printing will be
the label and receipt printer technology of choice in Zebra’s target
applications for the foreseeable future. Among the many advantages of direct
thermal and thermal transfer printing is the ability to print high-resolution,
durable images on a wide variety of label materials at relatively low costs and
very high speeds compared with alternative printing technologies. We view radio
frequency identification (RFID) smart label printing and encoding as a
complementary technology to bar coded label and receipt printing, offering
significant growth opportunities to Zebra as the technology becomes more widely
adopted.

If other technologies were to evolve or become available to Zebra, it
is possible that those technologies would be incorporated into our products.
Alternatively, if such technologies were to evolve or become available to our
competitors, Zebra’s products may become obsolete. This obsolescence would have
a significant negative effect on Zebra’s business, financial position, results
of operations and cash flows.


Therefore, we continually assess competitive and complementary methods
of bar code printer and other means of automatic identification. Alternative
print technologies assessed include ink jet, laser, impact dot matrix and laser
etching. While we cannot be sure that new technology will not supplant direct
thermal and thermal transfer printing for bar code labels and receipts, we are
not aware of any developing technology that offers the advantages of direct
thermal and thermal transfer printing for our targeted label and receipt
printer applications. We are continually monitoring and evaluating new HF and
UHF RFID technologies, supporting their standards development, and rapidly
adopting RFID into new Zebra products as new markets and applications emerge.

Intellectual Property Rights

Zebra relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, employee and
third party nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws and contractual rights to
establish and protect its proprietary rights in its products. We have and
actively protect several domestic and international trademarks. We hold 212
United States and foreign patents and have 290 United States and foreign patent
applications pending pertaining to products. The duration of these patents
ranges from 14 to 20 years. The expiration of any individual patent would not
have a significant negative impact on our business.

Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may
be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or
to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use some technology and information
that we regard as proprietary. Moreover, the laws of some countries do not
afford Zebra the same protection to proprietary rights, as do United States
laws. There can be no assurance that legal protections relied upon by Zebra to
protect its proprietary position will be adequate. While Zebra’s intellectual
property is valuable and provides certain competitive advantages, we do not
believe that the legal protections afforded to our intellectual property are
fundamental to our success.

Patents have become increasingly used by businesses generally as a
strategic business tool and in recent years the number of patent applications
and grants has risen dramatically. As a result, it is increasingly important
that Zebra takes appropriate steps to maintain and develop its own patent
portfolio and reduce the risk of disputes involving third party intellectual
property rights.

Other trademarks mentioned in this report are the property of their
respective holders and include IBM, a registered trademark of International
Business Machines; Kodak, a registered trademark of the Eastman Kodak; UNIX, a
registered trademark of UNIX Systems Laboratories; MS/DOS and Windows,
registered trademarks of Microsoft; SAP, a registered trademark of SAP AG;
Linux, a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds; and Accelio Present Central, a
registered trademark of Accelio. Bluetooth is a trademark owned by Bluetooth
SIG and used by Zebra under license.

Employees

As of February 25, 2006, Zebra employed approximately 2,500
persons. None of these employees is a member of a union. We consider our
employee relations to be very good.


Item 1A.

Risk Factors

Investors should
carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below,
as well as other disclosures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a
material adverse effect on Zebra’s business, financial condition, operating
results, and growth prospects.

Zebra could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it
undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business
disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely
affect operating results. Proposed acquisitions that are not consummated may
result in the write-off of certain acquisition costs.

Zebra may acquire or make
investments in other businesses, technologies, services or products. The
process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product
into operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and
expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable
management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing development
of the business. The expected benefits of any acquisition may not be realized.
Moreover, Zebra may be unable to identify, negotiate or finance future
acquisitions successfully. Future acquisitions could result in potentially
dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent
liabilities or amortization expenses. To the extent that a proposed acquisition
is not consummated, Zebra may be required to write off certain costs associated
with the acquisition, which could be significant.

Zebra may not be able to continue to develop products to
address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by rapid
technological change.

To be successful, Zebra
must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually
improving its products as well as introducing new products and services to
address user demands.

Zebra’s industry is
characterized by:

•

Rapidly changing technology

•

Evolving industry standards

•

Frequent new product and service
introductions

•

Evolving distribution channels

•

Changing customer demands

Future success will
depend on Zebra’s ability to adapt in this rapidly evolving environment. Zebra
could incur substantial costs if it has to modify its business to adapt to
these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes.

Zebra competes in a highly competitive market, which is
likely to become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more
quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements.

Zebra faces significant
competition in developing and selling its systems. Principal competitors have
substantial marketing, financial, development and personnel resources. To
remain competitive, Zebra believes it must continue to provide:

•

Technologically advanced systems that
satisfy the user demands,

•

Superior customer service,

•

High levels of quality and reliability,
and

•

Dependable and efficient distribution
networks.

Zebra cannot assure it
will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors.
Increased competition in printers or supplies may result in price reductions,
lower gross profit margins and loss of market share, and could require
increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing and
customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish
cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce
complementary products. Any of these factors could reduce Zebra’s earnings.

Zebra sources some of its
component parts from sole source suppliers.

A disruption in the
supply of such component parts could have a material adverse effect on our
operations and financial results.


Infringement on the proprietary rights of others could put
Zebra at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time
consuming and costly.

Third parties may claim
that Zebra violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a
violation of a third party’s patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra
may be prevented from operating its business as planned, and may be required to
pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing
method, if possible, to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or
without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of
key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly
judgments or settlements. In this regard, Zebra is involved in costly patent
litigation with Paxar Americas, Inc. and an unfavorable outcome could be
materially adverse to Zebra. See Note 16 to the Financial Statements included
in this Form 10-K. Also, as new technologies emerge, such as RFID, the
intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain.
As a result, products involving such technologies may have higher risk of
claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties.

Zebra may incur liabilities as a result of Zebra installed
product failures due to design or manufacturing defects.

Zebra
generally has insurance for such risks and also seeks to limit such risk though
product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and
contractual limitations. However, due to the large and growing size of Zebra’s
installed printer base, a design or manufacturing defect attributable to this
large installed printer base could result in product recalls or customer
service costs that could have material adverse effects on Zebra’s financial
results.

The inability to protect intellectual property could harm
Zebra’s reputation, and its competitive position may be materially damaged.

Zebra’s intellectual
property is valuable and provides Zebra with certain competitive advantages.
Copyrights, patents, trade secrets and contracts are used to protect these
proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for third
parties to copy aspects of Zebra’s products or, without authorization, to
obtain and use information which Zebra regards as trade secrets.

Zebra sells a significant portion of its products
internationally and purchases important components from foreign suppliers.
These circumstances create a number of risks.

Zebra sells a significant
amount of its products to customers outside the United States. Shipments to
international customers are expected to continue to account for a material
portion of net sales. Risks associated with sales and purchases outside the
United States include:

•

Fluctuating foreign currency rates could
restrict sales, or increase costs of purchasing, in foreign countries.

•

Foreign governments may impose burdensome
tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions.

•

Political and economic instability may
reduce demand for our products, or put our foreign assets at risk.

•

Restrictions on the export or import of
technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from
certain markets.

•

Potentially limited intellectual property
protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringing products
or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories.

•

Staffing and managing international
operations may be unusually difficult.

Economic factors, which are outside Zebra’s control, could
lead to deterioration in the quality of Zebra’s accounts receivables.

Zebra sells its products
to customers in the United States and several other countries around the world.
Sales are typically made on unsecured credit terms, which are generally
consistent with the prevailing business practices in a given country. A
deterioration of economic or political conditions in a country could impair
Zebra’s ability to collect on receivables in the affected country.

Zebra depends on the ongoing service of its senior
management and ability to attract and retain other key personnel.

Future success of Zebra
is substantially dependent on the continued service and continuing
contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the
service of any executive officer or other key employees could adversely affect
business. Zebra has no long-term employment agreements with key personnel and
maintains minimal key man life insurance policies on its key employees.


The ability to attract,
retain and motivate highly skilled employees is important to Zebra’s long-term
success. Competition for personnel in Zebra’s industry is intense, and Zebra
may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other
highly qualified employees in the future.

Terrorist attacks or war could lead to further economic
instability and adversely affect Zebra’s stock price, operations, and
profitability.

The terrorist attacks
that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001 caused major
instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. Possible further acts of
terrorism and current and future war risks could have a similar impact. The
United States continues to take military action against terrorism and is
currently engaged in a costly occupation of Iraq. These events may lead to
additional armed hostilities or to further acts of terrorism and civil
disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to
economic instability. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further
instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through
reduced demand, negatively affect Zebra’s facilities and operations or those of
its customers or suppliers.

Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments
exceeding current reserves.

Zebra is subject to
ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record
incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In
addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected
results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or
decrease to Zebra’s effective tax rate.


Item 2.

Properties

Zebra’s corporate headquarters are located in Vernon Hills, Illinois, a
northern suburb of Chicago. Zebra conducts its operations from a
custom-designed facility at this location, which provides approximately 225,000
square feet of space. Approximately 113,000 square feet have been allocated to
office and laboratory functions and 112,000 square feet to manufacturing and
warehousing. This facility was constructed in 1989 and expanded in 1993, 1995,
1996 and 1999. It is owned and leased to Zebra, under a lease terminating on June 30,
2014, by Unique Building Corporation, a corporation owned in part by Edward
Kaplan and Gerhard Cless, both executive officers and directors of Zebra.

Zebra’s major facilities as of December 31, 2005, are listed
below:

Zebra leases various other facilities around the world, which are
dedicated to administrative, research and sales functions. The amounts related
to these leases, solely or in aggregate, are not material to the consolidated
financial statements.

During 1999, Zebra
consolidated United Kingdom facilities, moving distribution of its Wokingham
and High Wycombe facilities to the Preston location, and transferring Wokingham
associates to the renovated High Wycombe location. The vacant Wokingham
facility had a lease that would have expired in October 2010. During December 2005,
we made a payment to surrender the remaining term of the lease, eliminating it
from the properties held as of December 31, 2005.


Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

See Note 16 in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.


PART II

Item 5.

Market
for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

Stock
Information: Price Range and Common Stock

Our Class A
Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol ZBRA. The
following table shows the high and low trade prices for each fiscal quarter in
2005 and 2004, as reported by the NASDAQ Stock Market. Share prices were
adjusted for the first and second quarter of 2004 for a 50% stock dividend that
was distributed on August 25, 2004.

Source: The NASDAQ Stock Market

At February 23, 2006, the last reported price for the Class A
Common Stock was $44.10 per share, and there were 387 registered stockholders
of record for the Company’s Class A Common Stock. In addition, we had
approximately 22,000 stockholders who owned Zebra stock in street name.

Dividend Policy

Since our initial public offering in 1991, we have not declared any
cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. Zebra currently intends
to retain its earnings to finance future growth and therefore does not
anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.

Treasury Shares

During 2005, Zebra purchased 1,866,375 shares of Zebra common stock
under a purchase authorization by the Board of Directors. In September 2005,
the Board authorized the purchase of up to an additional 2,500,000 shares of
Zebra common stock. The purchase price is at management’s discretion, and there
is no expiration on the authorization. During 2005, Zebra purchased shares as
follows:

Of the shares purchased, 185,000 shares were purchased in satisfaction
of our obligations related to the exercise of put options issued by Zebra.


Item 6.

Selected
Consolidated Financial Data

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS DATA

(In thousands, except per share amounts)

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA

(In thousands)

(1)

Includes pretax charges related to the
  closure/consolidation of the Varades, France; the Warwick, Rhode Island; and the
  Wakefield, Rhode Island facilities (see Note 19 in the Notes to the
  Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K) and the
  in-process research and development costs related to the acquisition of
  Atlantek, Inc. in 2003 (see Note 4 in the Notes to the Consolidated
  Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K).

(2)

Restated for 3-for-2 stock splits in 2003
  and 2004 that were paid in the form of 50% stock dividends.

(3)

Long-term obligations include deferred
  compensation (see Note 18 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
  Statements included in this Form 10-K).


Item 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Business for the fourth quarter of 2005 reflected strength in
international sales offset by minimal sales growth in North America due to a
decline in mobile printer shipments to retailers. We had record sales in Latin
America. In our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region, unfavorable
foreign exchange rate movements reduced sales growth in reported U.S. dollars
from a record in local currencies. High growth in supplies sales also had a
positive effect on the quarter’s results. Profitability declined, as lower
average unit prices, warranty expenses and the negative effects of foreign
exchange reduced gross margin, and higher payroll expenses, intellectual
property work, and new product development and IT project costs increased
operating expenses.

For 2005, sales growth did not meet our expectations.
International regions benefited from having more Zebra representatives serving
a broader base of customers in emerging territories. In North America, however,
the significant weakness in sales to retailers, versus robust sales to this
sector for 2004, contrasted with firm sales into non-retail sectors and
improvements in sales of supplies. Delays in new product introductions also
restricted sales growth for much of the year. Within this environment, we
maintained spending on key strategic activities to extend our global
competitive leadership. These activities include expanding geographically,
building stronger channel relationships, and advancing our products and
technology to serve a broader range of specialty printing applications. Zebra
also incurred higher legal costs, warranty expense, and write-offs in product
development. Consequently, Zebra experienced declines in annual net income and
earnings per share.

Results of Operations: Fourth Quarter of 2005
versus Fourth Quarter of 2004, Year ended December 31, 2005 versus Year
ended December 31, 2004

Sales

Sales by product
category, percent change, and percent of total sales for the three months and
year ended December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, were (in
thousands, except percentages):


Sales to customers
by geographic region, percent changes and percent of total sales for the three
months and year ended December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, were
(in thousands, except percentages):

Sales growth for
the fourth quarter and full year reflect the effect of investments to expand
our global presence and strengthen relationships with value-added resellers and
other distribution channels. The success of these efforts was offset by
significantly lower sales in North America to large retail accounts, which
purchased large quantities of primarily mobile printers the year before,
primarily in the preceding fourth quarter.

New printer
products (defined as printers released within 18 months prior to the end of the
applicable fiscal period) as a percent of total printer product sales were as
follows:

The decline in
sales of new printer products is the result of technical problems that delayed
the introduction of various new products as well as the shifting of some new
product engineering resources to environmental compliance. We expect several
new printer products to begin shipping early in 2006.

Our international
sales are denominated in multiple currencies, primarily the dollar, pound and
euro. This directly causes our reported sales to be subject to fluctuations
based on changes in currency rates. We estimate that unfavorable foreign
exchange movements of the euro and the pound versus the dollar had a negative
impact of $4,002,000 on sales during the fourth quarter and $1,929,000 for the
full year.

We currently hedge
a portion of anticipated euro-denominated sales to partially protect Zebra
against exchange rate movements. For the fourth quarter, this program resulted
in a gain of $875,000 and a full-year gain of $1,617,000. See Note 15 to the
Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of this hedging program.

Printer unit
volumes and average selling price information is summarized below:


For all of 2005,
with the exception of mobile printers, unit volumes increased in all printer
product lines, with notable strength in mid-range and desktop printers. For the
full year, a mix toward lower priced products resulted in a 2.6% decrease in
the average selling price of printers shipped.

Gross
Profit

Gross profit
information is summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

The decline in gross profit margin for the fourth quarter is related to
lower average unit prices, increased warranty costs of $1,411,000 and
unfavorable exchange rate movements of $3,684,000, offset by a 2.5% sales
increase. For the full year, gross margin decreased largely because of lower
average unit prices, increased warranty costs of $3,185,000 primarily related
to the recall of a now discontinued product, unfavorable exchange rate
movements of $2,327,000 and higher distribution costs of $1,908,000, which were
related to the new distribution center in the Netherlands.

Selling
and Marketing Expenses

Selling and
marketing expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

Higher selling and
marketing expenses reflect ongoing investments in demand-generating activities
to build brand equity in our core product lines as well as in the emerging area
of radio frequency identification (RFID). During the fourth quarter of 2005,
selling and marketing expenses increased due to higher payroll costs of
$1,264,000 from increased staffing as well as higher advertising and market
development funding of $962,000. For the full year, the payroll costs increased
$6,836,000 and advertising and market development funding increased $1,976,000.
In addition to increases in the items mentioned above, outside commissions,
offsite meeting and travel expenses increased during 2005. The increased
staffing was primarily focused on increasing our presence in targeted
geographical territories to support growth in those regions, building sales and
marketing teams to deliver vertical market applications, and strengthening
strategic alliances with complementary companies.

Research
and Development Costs

The development of
new products and enhancement of existing products are important to Zebra’s
business and growth prospects. To maintain and build our product pipeline, we
made investments in research and development, summarized below (in thousands,
except percentages):

Quarterly product
development expenses fluctuate widely depending on the status of ongoing
projects. We are committed to a long-term strategy of significant investment in
product development. For the fourth quarter of 2005, project expenses increased
by $1,594,000 as a result of additional expenditures for new products including
radio frequency identification (RFID), and payroll expenses increased $665,000.
For the full year, project expenses increased $5,277,000, payroll costs
increased $2,130,000, and professional services increased $744,000. Included in
the year-to date project expenses are write-offs of tooling and other materials
related to product development in the amount of $2,726,000.

For the full year
of 2005, we incurred research and development costs to re-engineer our products
to make them compliant with new environmental laws that go into effect in 2006.
These laws include eliminating the lead content in our products. These
environmental compliance costs totaled $1,049,000 for the fourth quarter and
$2,882,000 for the full year.


General
and Administrative Expenses

General and administrative expenses are summarized in the table below
(in thousands, except percentages):

For the fourth quarter of 2005, general and administrative expenses
increased due to higher information systems expenses of $797,000 and higher
legal expenses of $1,280,000, primarily related to work on intellectual
property matters, including the litigation with Paxar as described in Note 16
to the Financial Statements. We expect higher legal expenses to continue for
subsequent quarters. For the full year of 2005, general and administrative
expenses increased due to higher information system expenses of $1,220,000,
increased relocation expenses of $572,000, higher payroll costs of $930,000 and
higher legal expenses of $6,628,000 primarily related to intellectual property
expenses including the Paxar litigation.

Operating Income

Operating income
is summarized in the following table (in thousands, except percentages):

Non-operating
Income and Expenses

Zebra’s
non-operating income and expense items are summarized in the following table
(in thousands):

Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter was 32.7% compared
with 34.3% for the same quarter last year. For the full year of 2005, the
effective income tax rate was 33.8% versus 34.6% for 2004. During the fourth quarter,
we reduced tax reserves as a result of favorable resolution of certain tax
audits. In addition, we took advantage of the deduction for qualified domestic
production activities included in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.


Net Income

Zebra’s net income is summarized below (in thousands, except per share
amounts):


Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2004 and

Sales

Sales by product category, related percent changes and
percent of total sales for 2004 and 2003 were as follows:

Sales to customers
by geographic region, related percent changes, and percent of total sales for
2004 and 2003 were as follows:

Sales growth for
2004 reflected the success of sales and marketing programs to improve demand
for Zebra products, strengthen distribution channel relationships, and increase
the awareness of Zebra products and the Zebra brand in targeted markets. This
growth was well balanced across geographies, products, and channels. We
experienced notable sales growth in mobile printers, as the mainstream adoption
of wireless technology had expanded the uses of mobile printing in applications
across an increasing number of vertical markets. In addition, channel programs
implemented in North America strengthened and expanded channel partner
relationships. More Zebra sales representatives in international territories
helped increase the number of channel relationships in overseas regions and
support sales growth.

Our international sales were benefited in 2004 by favorable exchange
rates. For the full year of 2004, sales translated into dollars increased by
$17,626,000 compared to translating the same sales using exchange rates that
prevailed in 2003.

Printer unit volumes and average selling price information is
summarized below:

For all of 2004, unit volumes increased in nearly all product lines and
all regions, with notable strength in mobile printers. In addition, a favorable
product mix toward higher priced products and a richer feature set within
product segments, on balance, supported a 3.0% increase in the average selling
price of printers shipped.


Gross Profit

Gross profit information is summarized below (in thousands except
percentages)

Gross profit increased due to:

•

Higher capacity utilization

related to the higher sales
volume, representing $34,010,000 of the total gross profit increase for 2004.

•

Foreign exchange rate movements,

which we estimate increased
gross profit by $16,239,000 for 2004.

•

Changes in product mix, cost reductions and other items

accounted for $19,833,000 of the margin
improvement during 2004.

Selling
and Marketing Expenses

Selling and
marketing expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

The increase in selling and marketing expenses for 2004 resulted from
our investments in demand-generating activities to build brand equity in our
core product lines as well as in the emerging area of radio frequency
identification (RFID). Advertising and market development funding increased
$2,475,000. Payroll costs increased $4,052,000 due to placement of more Zebra
representatives in high-growth international regions and better coverage of
strategic accounts. Increases also occurred in outside commissions, consulting
and legal expenses.

Research
and Development Costs

Research and
development costs are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

For 2004, research and development expenses increased primarily due to
increases in payroll and benefits of $3,253,000 over 2003. Project expenses and
consulting expenses also increased as a result of additional expenditures for
new products including radio frequency identification (RFID).


General and
Administrative Expenses

General and administrative
expenses are summarized below (in thousands, except percentages):

For 2004, general and
administrative expenses include $4,111,000 of increased legal expenses related
to:

•

Litigation with
Paxar,

•

Increased
intellectual property work, and

•

International
expansion activity.

In addition to legal expenses
in 2004, we saw an increase in payroll costs and information system expenses.

Operating
Income

Operating income is summarized in the following table
(in thousands, except percentages):

The increase in operating income is attributable to
the following factors:

•

Accelerated
sales growth compared to 2003,

•

Improved
gross margins resulting from increased overhead utilization, and

•

Favorable
changes in foreign exchange rates for Zebra’s non-dollar denominated business.

As a result of these actions, operating income
increased by 11.3 percentage points more than the rate of sales growth during
2003.

Non-operating Income and Expenses

Zebra’s non-operating income and expense items are
summarized in the following table (in thousands):


Income Taxes

The effective
income tax rate for 2004 was 34.6% versus 32.6% in 2003. The rate for 2003 is
lower, because of the resolution of our long-standing dispute with the Illinois
Department of Revenue and the related decrease to income tax expense of
$1,342,000 during 2003.

Net Income

Zebra’s net income
is summarized below (in thousands, except per share amounts):

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management prepared the consolidated
financial statements of Zebra Technologies Corporation under accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles
require the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the
estimates, judgments and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the
information available.

Our estimates and assumptions affect the
reported amounts in our financial statements. The following accounting policies
comprise those that we believe are the most critical in understanding and
evaluating Zebra’s reported financial results.

Revenue Recognition

Product revenue is recognized once four
criteria are met: (1) we have persuasive evidence that an arrangement exits;
(2) delivery has occurred and title has passed to the customer, which happens
at the point of shipment provided that no significant obligations remain; (3)
the price is fixed and determinable; and (4) collectibility is reasonably
assured. Other items that affect our revenue recognition include:

Customer returns

Customers have the right to return products that
do not function properly within a limited time after delivery. We monitor and
track product returns and record a provision for the estimated future returns
based on historical experience and any notification received of pending
returns. Returns have historically been within expectations and the provisions
established, but Zebra cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience
return rates consistent with historical patterns. Historically, our product
returns have not been significant. However, if a significant issue should
arise, it could have a material impact on our financial statements.

Growth Rebates

Some of our channel program partners are
offered incentive rebates based on the attainment of specific growth targets
related to products they purchase from us over a quarter or year. These rebates
are recorded as a reduction to revenue. Each quarter, we estimate the amount of
outstanding volume rebates and establish a reserve for them based on shipment
history. Historically, actual volume rebates have been in line with our
estimates.

Price Protection

Some of our customers are offered price
protection by Zebra as an incentive to carry inventory of our product. These
price protection plans provide that if we lower prices, we will credit them for
the price decrease on inventory they hold. We estimate future payments under
price protection programs quarterly and establish a reserve, which is charged
against revenue. Our customers typically carry limited amounts of inventory,
and Zebra infrequently lowers prices on current products. As a result, the
amounts paid under theses plans have been minimal.

Software Revenue

We sell three types of software and record
revenue as follows:

•

Our printers contain

embedded firmware,

which is part of the hardware purchase.
We consider the sale of this firmware to be incidental to the sale of the
printer and do not attribute any revenue to it.

•

We sell a limited amount of

prepackaged,

or

off-the-shelf, software

for the creation of bar code labels
using our printers. There is no customization required to use this software,
and we have no post-shipment obligations on the software. Revenue is recognized
at the time this prepackaged software is shipped.


•

We sometimes provide

custom software

as part of a printer installation project.
We bill custom software development services separate from the related
hardware. Revenue related to custom software is recognized once the custom
software development services have been completed and accepted by the customer.

Shipping and Handling

We charge our customers for shipping and
handling services based upon our internal price list for these items. The
amounts billed to customers are recorded as revenue when the product ships. Any
costs incurred related to these services are included in cost of sales.

From time to time, Zebra will enter into sales
transactions that include more than one product type. This bundle of products
might include printers, current or future supplies, and services. When this
type of transaction occurs, we allocate the purchase price to each product type
based on the fair value of the individual products.  The revenue for each individual product is
then recognized when the earning process for that product is complete.

Investments and Marketable Securities

Investments and
marketable securities at December 31, 2005, consisted of U.S. government
securities (12.1%), state and municipal bonds (75.5%), corporate bonds (4.0%),
and partnership interests (8.4%). We classify our debt and marketable equity
securities in one of three categories: trading, available-for-sale or
held-to-maturity. Trading securities are bought and held principally for the
purpose of selling them in the near term. Held-to-maturity securities are those
debt securities that Zebra has the ability and intent to hold until maturity.
All securities not included in trading or held-to-maturity are classified as
available-for-sale.

Trading and available-for-sale securities are recorded
at fair value. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost,
adjusted for the amortization or accretion of discounts or premiums. Unrealized
holding gains and losses on trading securities are included in earnings.
Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, on
available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and are reported as a
separate component of stockholders’ equity until realized.

Accounts Receivable

We have standardized credit granting and
review policies and procedures for all customer accounts, including:

•

Credit reviews of all new customer
accounts,

•

Ongoing credit evaluations of
current customers,

•

Credit limits and payment terms
based on available credit information,

•

Adjustments to credit limits based
upon payment history and the customer’s current credit worthiness, and

•

An active collection effort by
regional credit functions, reporting directly to the corporate financial
officers.

We reserve for estimated credit losses based
upon historical experience and specific customer collection issues. Over the
last three years, accounts receivable reserves varied from 1.0% to 2.8% of
total accounts receivable. Accounts receivable reserves as of December 31,
2005, were $1,116,000, or 1.0% of the balance due. We feel this reserve level
is appropriate considering the quality of the portfolio as of December 31,
2005. While credit losses have historically been within expectations and the
provisions established, we cannot guarantee that our credit loss experience
will continue to be consistent with historical experience.

Inventories

We value our inventories at the lower of the
actual cost to purchase or manufacture using the first-in, first-out (FIFO)
method, or the current estimated market value. We review inventory quantities on
hand and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on
forecasts of product demand and production requirements for the subsequent
twelve months.

Over the last
three years, our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories have ranged from
10.4% to 13.1% of gross inventory. As of December 31, 2005, reserves for excess
and obsolete inventories were $8,755,000, or 12.3% of gross inventory. We feel
this reserve level is appropriate considering the quantities and quality of the
inventories as of December 31, 2005.


Valuation
of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill

We test the
impairment of goodwill each year or whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We completed our last
assessment during June 2005. At that time, no adjustment to goodwill was
necessary due to impairment.

We evaluate
the impairment of identifiable intangibles and other long-lived assets whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable.

Factors
considered that may trigger an impairment review consist of:

•

Significant
underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating
results,

•

Significant
changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the
overall business,

•

Significant
negative industry or economic trends,

•

Significant
decline in Zebra’s stock price for a sustained period, and

•

Significant
decline in market capitalization relative to net book value.

If we believe that one or more
of the above indicators of impairment have occurred, we measure impairment
based on projected discounted cash flows using a discount rate that
incorporates the risk inherent in the cash flows. Net intangible assets,
long-lived assets and goodwill amounted to $137,742,000 as of December 31,
2005.

Contingencies

We record estimated liabilities
related to contingencies based on our estimates of the probable outcomes.
Quarterly, we assess the potential liability related to pending litigation, tax
audits and other contingencies and confirm or revise estimates and reserves as
appropriate.

For a discussion of all
current litigation matters, see Note 16 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in the Form 10-K.

Stock-Based
Compensation

As of
December 31, 2005, Zebra had three stock-based compensation

plans available for future grants. We
account for those plans under the recognition and measurement principles of APB
Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees,

and
related Interpretations. No stock-based compensation cost is reflected in net
income, as all options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal to
the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. During
the first quarter of 2006, we will begin expensing stock options as required
under SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payments

. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K for further
discussion.

Expectations

During our quarterly
conference call on February 8, 2006, we provided net sales and earnings
guidance for the first quarter of 2006 as follows (amounts in thousands, except
per share data):

The above expectations include
an estimated $0.02 per diluted share for the expensing of stock options as
required under SFAS No. 123 (R),

Share-Based
Payments.

The effective tax rate is expected to be 34.5% of income
before income taxes.


Liquidity and Capital Resources

During the third
quarter of 2005, Zebra initiated a program to repurchase our own shares. Under
this program, we repurchased a total of 1,866,375 shares for $70,421,000. As a
result, Zebra’s cash and investment balances have decreased to $544,239,000 as
of December 31, 2005 compared with $557,993,000 at December 31, 2004. Other
factors affecting cash and investment balances during 2005 include (note that
changes discussed below include the impact of foreign currency):

•

Operations provided a net cash
increase of $92,730,000 primarily from net income.

•

Accounts receivable increased
$20,422,000 because of higher sales and slower collections. Days sales
outstanding increased to 56.8 at the end of 2005 from 50.6 at the end of 2004.

•

Inventories increased $6,204,000.
Compared to the same period a year ago, inventory turns decreased to 5.6 from
5.7.

•

Accounts payable increased by
$3,792,000, in relation to the increase in inventory.

•

Taxes payable decreased $5,170,000
due to the amount of estimated tax payments made in 2005.

•

Purchases of property and equipment
totaled $14,286,000.

•

Acquisition of assets of Retail
Systems International, Inc. totaled $7,797,000.

•

Acquisition of intangible assets
totaled $13,754,000.

•

Net sales of investments and
marketable securities totaled $11,364,000.

•

Stock option exercises and purchases
under the stock purchase plan contributed $11,753,000.

Zebra’s
contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 were:

Purchase
obligations are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet
operational requirements, primarily raw materials.

Management
believes that existing capital resources and funds generated from operations
are sufficient to finance anticipated capital requirements. It is our intention
to actively pursue opportunities to acquire other businesses.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

In April 2005, the FASB
changed the implementation date for SFAS No. 123(R),

Share Based Payment

, which requires a
public entity to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for
the award of equity instruments based on the fair value of the award at the
date of grant. The provisions of this statement will now become effective for
Zebra during the first quarter of 2006. We plan to adopt the provisions of this
statement using the modified retrospective method, which requires the
restatement of the financial statements of all prior years as if the
fair-value-based method of accounting for awards granted, modified, or settled
in cash had been used in all fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1994.
Accordingly, we expect the impact on Zebra’s consolidated financial statements
to be consistent with the fair value disclosures included in Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K, with additional
restatements made to the balance sheet.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,

Inventory Costs - an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter
4.

SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, “Inventory
Pricing”, to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility
expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). Paragraph 5
of ARB 43, Chapter 4, previously stated that these costs may be “so abnormal”
that they would require treatment as current period charges. This statement
requires that those items be recognized as current-period charges regardless of
whether they meet the criterion of “so abnormal”. This statement also requires
that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be
based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. This statement
describes our current process; therefore, it will not have any impact on our
financial position or results of operations.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,

Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections - a Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS
No. 3

, which changes the requirements for the accounting and
reporting of a change in accounting principle.


The Statement applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle
and to changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance
that the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. This
Statement requires retrospective application to prior periods’ financial
statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to
determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the
change. Zebra is required to adopt this statement during the first quarter of
2006. We do not expect the adoption of this Statement to have a material impact
on our financial condition or results of operations.

In
November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1,

The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and
Its Application to Certain Investments

, which addresses the
determination as to when an investment is considered impaired, whether that
impairment is other than temporary, and the measurement of an impairment
loss.  This FSP also includes accounting
considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary
impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have
not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments. The guidance in this
FSP amends SFAS No. 115,

Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,

and SFAS No. 124,

Accounting for Certain Investments Held by
Not-for-Profit Organizations,

and APB Opinion No. 18,

The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in
Common Stock.

This FSP is effective for reporting periods beginning
after December 15, 2005.

We do not expect the adoption of this Statement
to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.


Item 7A.         Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Interest
Rate Risk

Zebra is exposed to the impact
of changes in interest rates because of our large investment portfolio. As
stated in our written investment policy, the investment portfolio is viewed as
a strategic resource that will be managed to achieve above market rates of
return in exchange for accepting a prudent amount of incremental risk, which
includes the risk of interest rate movements. Risk tolerance is constrained by
an overriding objective to preserve capital across each quarterly reporting
cycle.

Zebra mitigates interest rate
risk with an investment policy that requires the use of outside professional
investment managers, investment liquidity, and broad diversification across
investment strategies, and which limits the types of investments that may be
made. Moreover, the policy requires due diligence of each investment manager
both before employment and on an ongoing basis.

The following table sets forth
the impact of a one-percentage point movement in interest rates on the value of
Zebra’s investment portfolio (in thousands, except per share data).

Because these securities are classified
as available-for-sale under SFAS No. 115,

Accounting
for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,

the impact of
a one-percentage point movement in interest rates occurs over an extended
period of time as investments are sold and the funds are subsequently
reinvested.

Foreign
Exchange Risk

We conduct business in approximately 100 countries
throughout the world and, therefore, are exposed to risk based on movements in
foreign exchange rates. We generally invoice customers in their local currency
and have a resulting foreign currency denominated revenue transaction and
accounts receivable. We also purchase certain raw materials and other items in
foreign currencies.  We manage these
risks using derivative financial instruments. See Note 15 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this form 10-K for further
discussions of hedging activities.

The following table sets forth
the impact of a ten percent movement in the dollar/pound and dollar/euro rates
measured as if Zebra did

not

engage in the selective hedging practices
described above and in Note 15. It is based on the dollar/euro and dollar/pound
exchange rates and euro and pound denominated assets and liabilities (in
thousands, except per share data).


Equity
Price Risk

Zebra currently employs four
investment managers, two of which manage portfolios of investment funds (i.e.,
fund of funds). These investment funds use a variety of investment strategies,
some of which involve the use of equity securities. By policy, management
limits the amount of Zebra’s investments in alternative investment strategies
to a maximum of 15% of the total investment portfolio, with no single
investment exceeding $15,000,000.

Zebra utilizes a Value-at-Risk
(VaR) model to determine the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value
of its interest rate, foreign exchange and equity price sensitive instruments.

The following table sets forth
the impact of a ten percent change in the value of all equity positions held by
Zebra’s investment managers (in thousands, per share data).

From time to time, Zebra has
taken direct equity positions in companies. These investments relate to
potential acquisitions and other strategic business opportunities. To the
extent that it has a direct investment in the equity securities of another
company, Zebra is exposed to the risks associated with such investments.


Item 8.            Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements
and schedule of the Company are annexed to this Report as pages F-2 through
F-34. An index to such materials appears on page F-1.

Item 9.

Changes
in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures

Not applicable.


Item 9A.         Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of the end of the
period covered by this Form 10-K. The controls evaluation was conducted under
the supervision of our Disclosure Committee, and with the participation of
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Office and Chief Financial
Officer, have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective
to provide reasonable assurance that (i) the information required to be
disclosed by us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K was recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules
and forms, and (ii) information required to be disclosed by us in our reports
that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated
to our management, including our principal executive and principal financial
officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting
as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and
the preparation of the financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. Our management assessed the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2005. In making this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”)
in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment and those
criteria, our management believes that, as of December 31, 2005, our internal
control over financial reporting is effective. Our independent registered
public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued an attestation report
on management’s assessment of Zebra’s internal control over financial
reporting. That report is included on page 36 of this Report on Form 10-K.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

During 2005, we made changes to our controls
and procedures as part of our ongoing monitoring of our controls. However, none
of these changes has materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Inherent Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls

Our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure
controls and procedures or our internal controls will prevent or detect all
errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and
operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the
objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system
must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of
controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent
limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide
absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or
that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Zebra have been
detected.

These inherent limitations include the
realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns
can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented
by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or
by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is
based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and
there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated
goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of
controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time,
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or
deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm

On Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The Board of
Directors and Stockholders

of Zebra Technologies Corporation:

We have audited management’s assessment,
included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting, that Zebra Technologies Corporation and subsidiaries
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (the COSO criteria). Zebra Technologies Corporation’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitation, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that
Zebra Technologies Corporation and subsidiaries maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in
all material respects, based on COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, Zebra
Technologies Corporation and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005,
based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheet of Zebra Technologies Corporation and subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of earnings,
comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for the year then
ended, and our report dated February 24, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion
thereon.

/s/Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 24, 2006


PART III

Item 10.         Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

We have adopted a Code of
Ethics that applies to Zebra’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer
and the Vice President and Controller. The Code of Ethics is posted on the
investor page of Zebra’s Internet Web site,
www.zebra.com, and is available for download.

All other information in
response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement
sections entitled “Election of Directors” and “Executive Officers.”

Item 11.         Executive
Compensation

The information in
response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement
section entitled “Executive Compensation and Certain Transactions.”

Item 12.         Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters

The information in
response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement
section entitled “Security Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial
Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information.”

Item 13.         Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information in
response to this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement
section entitled “Executive Compensation and Certain Transactions.”

Item
14.         Principal Accounting Fees and
Services

The information in response to
this item is incorporated by reference from the Proxy Statement section
entitled “Fees of Independent Auditors.”


PART IV

Item 15.         Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form
8-K

The financial statements and
schedule filed as part of this report are listed in the accompanying Index to
Financial Statements and Schedule. The exhibits filed as a part of this report
are listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized, on the 27th day of February 2006.

Pursuant to the requirements of
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Report has been signed below by
the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


Index to
Exhibits



ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

All other financial statement
schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required
information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

F-1

Report of Independent

Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Zebra Technologies
Corporation:

We have audited
the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Zebra Technologies Corporation
and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2005, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders’
equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. Our audit also included the
financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a). These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audit.

We conducted our
audit in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,
the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Zebra Technologies Corporation
and subsidiaries at December 31, 2005, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with U. S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria
established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report
dated February 24, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 24, 2006

F-2

Report of Independent

Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Zebra Technologies
Corporation:

We have audited
the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Zebra Technologies Corporation
and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2004, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders’
equity, and cash flows for each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.
In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also
have audited the consolidated financial statement schedule of valuation and
qualifying accounts. These consolidated financial statements and the
consolidated financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and the consolidated financial statement schedule based on
our audits.

We conducted our
audits in accordance with auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,
the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31,
2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, in conformity with U. S. generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related consolidated financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/KPMG LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 24, 2006

F-3

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Amounts in thousands, except share and per
share data)

See accompanying notes to consolidated
financial statements.

F-4

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS

(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-5

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME

(Amounts in thousands)

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-6

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

(Dollars in thousands)

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-7

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Amounts in thousands)

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-8

ZEBRA
TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1
Description of Business

Zebra
Technologies Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (Zebra) design,
manufacture, sell and support a broad range of direct thermal and thermal
transfer label printers, radio frequency identification printer/encoders, dye
sublimation card printers, digital photo printers and related accessories and
support software. These products are used principally in automatic
identification (auto ID), data collection and personal identification
applications and are distributed world-wide through a network of resellers,
distributors and end users representing a wide cross-section of industrial,
service and government organizations.

Note 2
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles
of Consolidation.

These consolidated financial
statements were prepared on a consolidated basis to include the accounts of
Zebra and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts,
transactions and unrealized profit were eliminated in consolidation.

Use of
Estimates.

These consolidated financial statements
were prepared using estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents.

Cash
consists primarily of deposits with banks. In addition, Zebra considers highly
liquid short-term investments with original maturities of less than seven days
to be cash equivalents.

Investments
and Marketable Securities.

Investments and marketable
securities at December 31, 2005, consisted of U.S. government securities, state
and municipal bonds, partnership interests and equity securities, which are
held indirectly in diversified funds actively managed by investment
professionals. Zebra classifies its debt and marketable equity securities in
one of three categories: trading, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity.
Trading securities are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling
them in the near term. Held-to-maturity securities are those debt securities
that Zebra has the ability and intent to hold until maturity. All securities
not included in trading or held-to-maturity are classified as
available-for-sale.

Trading and available-for-sale
securities are recorded at fair value. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded
at amortized cost, adjusted for the amortization or accretion of discounts or
premiums. Unrealized holding gains and losses on trading securities are
included in earnings. Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related
tax effect, on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and are
reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until realized.

Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts.

Zebra maintains an allowance
for doubtful accounts for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable. The
allowance is based on our assessment of known delinquent accounts.

Inventories.

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market,
and cost is determined by the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.

Property
and Equipment.

Property and equipment is stated at
cost. Depreciation and amortization is computed primarily using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the various classes of
property and equipment, which are 30 years for buildings and range from 3 to 10
years for other property. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the
straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term or estimated useful
life of the asset.

Income
Taxes.

Zebra accounts for income taxes under the asset
and liability method. Accordingly, deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between
the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and
their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in
which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The
effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is
recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.

F-9

Intangible
Assets.

Goodwill represents the unamortized excess of
the cost of acquiring a business over the fair values of the net assets received
at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is no longer being amortized as required
by SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets

.

We test the
impairment of goodwill each year or whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We completed our last
assessment during June 2005. At that time, no adjustment to goodwill was
necessary due to impairment.

We evaluate
the impairment of identifiable intangibles and other long-lived assets whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable.

Factors
considered that might trigger an impairment review consist of:

•

Significant
underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating
results

•

Significant
changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the
overall business

•

Significant
negative industry or economic trends

•

Significant
decline in Zebra’s stock price for a sustained period

•

Significant
decline in market capitalization relative to net book value

If we believe
that one or more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred, we
measure impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow using a discount
rate that incorporates the risk inherent in the cash flows.

Other intangible assets consist
primarily of current technology and customer relationships. These assets are
recorded at cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average
life of 8 years. Accumulated amortization for these other intangible assets was
$10,415,000 and $8,074,000 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Revenue
Recognition

. Revenue includes sales of hardware,
supplies, software and services (including repair services, extended service
contracts, and professional services). Product revenue is recognized once four criteria are met: (1) we
have persuasive evidence that an arrangement exits; (2) delivery has occurred
and title has passed to the customer, which happens at the point of shipment
provided that no significant obligations remain; (3) the price is fixed and
determinable; and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured. We provide
for an estimate of product returns based on historical experience. Revenue
related to extended warranty and service contracts is recorded as deferred
income and recognized over the life of the contract. Professional services
revenue is recorded when performed. From time to time, Zebra will enter into
sales transactions that include more than one product type. This bundle of products
might include printers, current or future supplies, and services. When this
type of transaction occurs, we allocate the purchase price to each product type
based on the fair value of the individual products.  The revenue for each individual product is
then recognized when the earning process for that product is complete.

Zebra records payments to
resellers of its product as reductions to revenue unless these payments meet
the requirements for operating expense treatment under EITF 01-09

Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including
a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products).

See the market development
funds accounting policy for further details.

Revenue includes all customer
billings for shipping and handling charges. The related costs of shipping and
handling revenue are recorded as cost of goods sold.

Research
and Development Costs.

Research and development costs
are expensed as incurred. These costs include:

•

Salaries,
benefits, and other R&D personnel related costs

•

Consulting
and other outside services used in the R&D process

•

Engineering
supplies

•

Engineering
related information systems costs

•

Allocation
of building and related costs

From time to time, Zebra will
provide engineering and development services to third parties on a contract
basis. Zebra does not guarantee the outcome of this research and does not
retain any obligation to repay third party funding received for these

F-10

contract services. Since these
services are not part of our standard product offering, we treat payments
received under these arrangements as reductions to research and development
costs.

Advertising.

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Advertising expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
totaled $5,524,000, $5,117,000 and $3,721,000, respectively.

Market
Development Funds.

Zebra makes market development
funds available to its resellers to support demand generation activity by the
resellers. These funds require the reseller to provide specific services or
benefits to Zebra and substantiate the fair value of such. Zebra reimburses
resellers for agreed activities up to the fair value of the benefit received by
Zebra. These payments are treated as marketing costs consistent with the
requirements of EITF 01-9

, Accounting for
Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the
Vendor’s Products).

Any payments to resellers that do not meet these
requirements are recorded as reductions to revenue.

Warranty.

Zebra
provides warranty coverage of generally up to one year on printers against
defects in material and workmanship. A provision for warranty expense is
recorded at the time of shipment and adjusted quarterly based on historical
warranty experience. The following table is a summary of Zebra’s accrued
warranty obligation.

During the third quarter of 2005, Zebra began
providing for environmental recycling reserves similar to warranty reserves. In
the European Union, we have an obligation in the future to recycle
printers.  This reserve is based on all
new printers sold after August 13, 2005, and printers sold prior to that date
that are returned to us upon our sale of a new printer to a customer. The
following is a summary of Zebra’s accrued recycling obligation.

Fair Value
of Financial instruments.

Zebra estimates the fair
value of its financial instruments as follows:

In accordance with SFAS No.
133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities

, we recognize derivative instruments and
hedging activities as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and
measure them at fair value. Gains and losses resulting from changes in fair
value are accounted for depending on the use of the derivative and whether it
is

F-11

designated and qualifies for
hedge accounting. See Note 15 for additional information on our derivatives and
hedging activities.

Stock-based
Compensation.

At
December 31, 2005, Zebra has three stock-based compensation plans, which are
described more fully in Note 3. Zebra accounts for those plans using the
intrinsic method in accordance with the recognition and measurement principles
of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,

and related Interpretations. No stock-based
compensation cost is reflected in net income, because all options granted under
these plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying
common stock on the date of grant. The following table illustrates the effect on
net income and earnings per share if we had applied the fair value recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-based
Compensation,

to
stock-based compensation (in thousands, except per share data).

For
pro forma purposes, the fair value of stock options granted prior to January 1,
2005, was determined using the Black-Scholes model. Zebra changed its fair
value option pricing model from the Black-Scholes model to a binomial model for
all options granted on or after January 1, 2005. We believe that the binomial
model considers characteristics of fair value option pricing that are not
recognized under the Black-Scholes model. Similar to the Black-Scholes model, the
binomial model takes into account variables such as volatility, dividend yield
rate and risk free interest rate. Additionally, the binomial model considers
cancellation and historical exercise experience of Zebra to determine the
option value. It also takes into account the end of its contractual life. For
these reasons, we believe that the binomial model provides an estimated fair
value that is more representative of actual experience and future expected
experience than the value calculated in previous years using the Black-Scholes
model.

In
April 2005, the FASB changed the implementation date for SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment

, which requires a
public entity to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for
the award of equity instruments based on the fair value of the award at the
date of grant. Originally, public companies subject to SEC oversight were
required to implement SFAS No. 123(R) as of the beginning of the first interim
or annual reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005. As a result of the
action by the SEC, the provisions of this statement will now be effective for
Zebra during the first quarter of 2006.

We plan to adopt the
provisions of this statement using the modified retrospective method, which
requires the restatement of the financial statements of all prior years as if
the fair-value-based method of accounting for awards granted, modified, or
settled in cash had been used in all fiscal years beginning after December 15,
1994. Accordingly, we expect the
impact on Zebra’s consolidated financial statements to be consistent with the
fair value disclosures included above.

Deferred
Compensation Plan.

Zebra

has a deferred compensation plan that permits management and highly compensated
employees to defer portions of their compensation. Zebra immediately pays
deferred amounts into a Rabbi Trust, and plan participants select a method of
investing these funds into hypothetical investments. Zebra tracks the
performance of these hypothetical investments in order to determine the value
of each participant’s deferral. Zebra accrues the deferred compensation
liability in other long-term liabilities as the amount that is actually owed to
the participants. Our deferred compensation liability

F-12

was $5,521,000 as of December 31, 2005, and $3,894,000 as of December
31, 2004. Zebra invests the funds in company owned life insurance policies, in
which Zebra is the beneficiary, to fund the ultimate payment of the deferred
compensation. These polices are valued at the cash surrender value and are
included other assets.

Foreign
Currency Translations.

The consolidated balance sheets
of Zebra’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using the
year-end exchange rate, and statement of earnings items are translated using
the average exchange rate for the year. The resulting translation gains or
losses are recorded in stockholders’ equity as a cumulative translation
adjustment, which is a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.

Acquisition Costs.

Zebra periodically has
expenditures related to potential acquisitions. These expenditures are recorded
as prepaid expenses until such time as Zebra either completes the transaction
or abandons the transaction. If the transaction is completed, the costs are
treated as part of the cost of the acquisition. If the transaction is
abandoned, the costs are expensed during the period in which it is abandoned.

Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of

.
Zebra accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of SFAS
No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets

. The statement requires that long-lived assets and
certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not
be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the sum of the undiscounted
cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the
asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be
recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets
exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at
the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.

Recently Issued Accounting
Pronouncements.

In April 2005, the FASB
changed the implementation date for SFAS No. 123(R),

Share Based Payment

, which requires a
public entity to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for
the award of equity instruments based on the fair value of the award at the
date of grant. The provisions of this statement will now become effective for
Zebra during the first quarter of 2006. We expect the impact on Zebra’s
consolidated financial statements to be consistent with the fair value
disclosures included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this Form 10-K.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151,

Inventory Costs — an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter
4.

SFAS No. 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, “Inventory
Pricing”, to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility
expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). Paragraph 5
of ARB 43, Chapter 4, previously stated that these costs may be “so abnormal”
that they would require treatment as current period charges. This statement
requires that those items be recognized as current-period charges regardless of
whether they meet the criterion of “so abnormal”. This statement also requires
that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be
based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. This statement
describes our current process; therefore, it will not have any impact on our
financial position or results of operations.

In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154,

Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections — a Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and SFAS
No. 3

, which changes the requirements for the accounting and
reporting of a change in accounting principle. The Statement applies to all
voluntary changes in accounting principle and to changes required by an
accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does
not include specific transition provisions. This Statement requires
retrospective application to prior periods’ financial statements of changes in
accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the
period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. Zebra is
required to adopt this statement during the first quarter of 2006. We do not
expect the adoption of this Statement to have a material impact on our
financial condition or results of operations.

In November 2005, the FASB
issued FSP FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1,

The
Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain
Investments

, which addresses the determination as to when and
investment is considered impaired, whether that impairment is other than
temporary, and the measurement of an impairment loss.  This FSP also includes accounting
considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary
impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have
not been recognized as other-than-temporary impairments. The guidance in this
FSP amends SFAS No. 115,

Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,

and SFAS No. 124,

Accounting for Certain Investments Held by
Not-for-Profit Organizations,

and APB Opinion No. 18,

The Equity Method of

F-13

Accounting
for Investments in Common Stock.

This FSP is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15,
2005. We do not expect the adoption of this Statement to have a material
impact on our financial condition or results of operations.

Reclassifications

.
Certain amounts in the prior years’ financial statements have been reclassified
to conform to the current year’s presentation.

Note 3
Stock Based Compensation

As of December 31, 2005,
Zebra has three active stock option and stock purchase plans, which are
described below.

The Board of Directors adopted
the 1997 Stock Option Plan, effective February 11, 1997, and 9,562,500 shares

of
Class A Common Stock were reserved for issuance under the plan

. The 1997 Stock Option Plan is a flexible plan
that provides the committee that administers the Plan broad discretion to
fashion the terms of the awards to provide eligible participants with
stock-based incentives, including: (i) nonqualified and incentive stock options
for the purchase of Zebra’s Class A Common Stock and (ii) dividend equivalents.
The persons eligible to participate in the 1997 Stock Option Plan are
directors, officers, and employees of Zebra or any subsidiary of Zebra who, in
the opinion of the committee administering the plan, are in a position to make
contributions to the growth, management, protection and success of Zebra or its
subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2005, 2,353,355 shares were available under
the plan.

The options
granted under the 1997 Stock Option Plan have an exercise price equal to the
closing market price of Zebra’s stock on the date of grant. The options
generally vest over two- to five-year periods and have a legal life of ten
years from the date of grant. The Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors administers the plan.

The 1997 Director Plan was terminated
February 1, 2002. However, at December 31, 2005, 3,750 options issued under
this plan remained outstanding and unexercised. These options expire on the
earlier of (a) ten years following the grant date or (b) the second anniversary
of the termination of the non-employee director’s directorship for any reason
other than due to death or disability (as defined in the 1997 Director Plan). A
total of 118,125 shares were issued under this plan.

The Board of
Directors and stockholders adopted the 2001 Stock Purchase Plan and reserved
1,125,000 shares of Class A Common Stock for issuance under the plan. Under
this plan, employees who work a minimum of 20 hours per week may elect to
withhold up to 10% of their cash compensation through regular payroll
deductions to purchase shares of Class A Common Stock from Zebra over a period
not to exceed 12 months at a purchase price per share equal to the lesser of:
(1) 85% of the fair market value of the shares as of the date of the grant, or
(2) 85% of the fair market value of the shares as of the date of purchase. As
of December 31, 2005, 373,870 shares have been purchased under the plan.

Zebra’s Board of
Directors adopted the 2002 Director Plan, effective February 1, 2002. The 2002
Director Plan provides for the issuance of options to purchase up to 360,000
shares of Class A Common Stock, which shares are reserved and available for
purchase upon the exercise of options granted under the 2002 Director Plan.

Only directors who are not employees or officers
of Zebra are eligible to participate in the 2002 Director Plan. Under the 2002
Director Plan, each non-employee director was granted, on the effective date of
the plan, an option to purchase 45,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, and each
non-employee director subsequently elected to the Board will be granted an
option to purchase shares of Class A Common Stock on the date of his or her
election or appointment. Options granted under the 2002 Director Plan provide
for the purchase of Class A Common Stock at a price equal to the fair market
value on the date of grant. If there are not sufficient shares remaining and
available to all non-employee directors eligible for an automatic grant at the
time at which an automatic grant would otherwise be made, then each eligible
non-employee director shall receive an option to purchase a pro rata number of
shares. As of December 31, 2005, 187,932 shares were available under the plan.
Unless otherwise provided in an option agreement, options granted under the
2002 Director Plan shall become exercisable in five equal increments beginning
on the date of the grant and on each of the first four anniversaries thereof.
All options expire on the earlier of (a) ten years following the grant date,
(b) the first anniversary of the termination date of the non-employee director’s
directorship for any reason other than those listed in clause (c) below, or (c)
the termination of the non-employee director’s directorship by Zebra’s
stockholders for cause, or resignation for cause, in each case as defined in
the option agreement.

On February 7, 2006, Zebra’s Board of Directors approved the 2006 Zebra
Technologies Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2006 Plan) and will
submit such plan to the stockholders at our Annual Meeting of Stockholders
scheduled for May 9, 2006. If approved by the stockholders, the 2006 Plan will
become effective immediately and supersede the 1997 Stock Option Plan (the 1997
Plan) and the 2002 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (the 2002 Director
Plan). The aggregate number of

F-14

shares that would be available under the 2006 Plan is 5,500,000 (which
include 2,535,945 unissued shares from the 1997 Plan and the 2002 Director
Plan). The types of awards that would be available under the 2006 Plan are
incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights,
restricted stock, performance shares and units and performance-based cash
bonuses. Employees, directors and consultants of the Company and its
subsidiaries would be eligible to participate in the 2006 Plan.

For purposes of calculating
the compensation cost consistent with SFAS No. 123, the fair value of each
stock option granted prior to January 1, 2005, is estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. For stock options granted
on or after January 1, 2005, fair value is estimated on the date of grant using
a binomial model. The following table shows the weighted-average assumptions
used for stock option grants as well as the fair value of the options granted
based on those assumptions:

The fair value of the
employees’ purchase rights issued under the Stock Purchase Plan are estimated
as noted above with the following weighted-average assumptions used for
purchase rights granted. Expected lives of three months to one year have been
used along with these assumptions.

Stock option activity for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 was as follows:

F-15

The
following table summarizes information about fixed stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2005:

Note 4 Business Combinations

Retail
Systems International, Inc.

On February 11, 2005,
Zebra acquired certain assets of Retail Systems International, Inc. (RSI) for
$7,797,000. Located in Chula Vista, California, RSI manufactures labels, tags
and other printed media. The consolidated statements of earnings reflect the
results of operations of RSI since the effective date of the purchase. The pro forma
effect of this acquisition was not significant.

The following table (in
thousands) summarizes the adjusted fair values of the assets acquired at the
date of acquisition.

The purchase price was
allocated to identifiable tangible assets and intangible assets acquired based
on their estimated fair values. The intangible assets of $1,073,000 consist
mainly of customer relationships with a useful life of 5 years. The goodwill is
fully deductible for tax purposes.

Atlantek,
Inc.

On November 17, 2003, Zebra acquired Atlantek,
Inc. (Atlantek), by acquiring all of the outstanding stock of Atlantek for approximately
$13,680,000 in cash. Located in Wakefield, Rhode Island, Atlantek had been a
privately held company. Atlantek designs and manufactures thermal digital
printers. The consolidated statements of earnings reflect the results of
operations of Atlantek since the effective date of the acquisition. The pro
forma impact of this acquisition was not significant.

The following table (in
thousands) summarizes the adjusted fair values of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.

F-16

The purchase price was
allocated to identifiable tangible assets and intangible assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. Of the $7,884,000 of
acquired intangible assets, $714,000 was assigned to in-process technology
assets that were written-off at the date of the acquisition in accordance with
FASB Interpretation No. 4,

Applicability of FASB
Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method

.
The write-off of in-process technology is stated separately in the operating
expense section of the consolidated statements of earnings. The remaining
$7,170,000 of acquired intangible assets consists of current technology of
$4,837,000 with useful lives from 5 to 6 years and customer relationships of
$2,333,000 with a useful life of 8 years. The goodwill is not deductible for
tax purposes.

The transaction called for two
payments in addition to the original payment, which were contingent upon
revenue related to specific products for the first two years after the
acquisition. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the first of these payments was
made for $632,000 and added to goodwill. The final payment for $1,287,000 was
made in the first quarter of 2005 and added to goodwill.

Note 5 Stockholders’ Equity

Share count and par value data related to stockholders’ equity are as
follows:

During the third quarter of 2005, Zebra repurchased a
total of 1,866,375 shares. These shares are being reissued for exercise of
stock options and purchases under the stock purchase plan. Of the shares
repurchased, 185,000 were acquired through a program by which we sold put
options indexed in our own stock. No put options were outstanding as of
December 31, 2005.

Stockholder Rights Agreement.

Zebra’s Board of
Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Agreement under which stock purchase
rights were paid by dividend to stockholders of record on March 15, 2002 at the
rate of one Class A Right for each outstanding share of Class A Common Stock.
Each Class A Right, other than those held by the acquiring person, entitles the
registered holder to purchase one ten-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, at a price of $300
per one ten-thousandth of Class A Preferred Share after the distribution date.
The distribution date is 10 days after the date on which any person or group
announces that it has acquired 15% or more of Zebra’s outstanding common stock
or 10 days (or a later date as determined by the Board of Directors) after the
date on which any person or group announces or commences a tender offer that
would result in the person or group becoming an owner of 15% or more of the
outstanding common stock.

The Rights will expire on March
14, 2012 unless that date has been extended by the Board of Directors or unless
the Rights are redeemed or terminated earlier. A committee of Zebra’s
independent directors will review the Rights Plan at least every three years
and decide whether it should continue or be revoked. Zebra generally may amend
the Rights Plan or redeem the Rights at $0.001 per Right at any time prior to
the time a person or group has acquired at least 15% of the outstanding common
stock.

F-17

Note 6
Earnings Per Share

For the years ended December
31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, earnings per share were computed as follows (in
thousands, except per-share amounts):

The potentially dilutive
securities, which were excluded from the earnings per share calculation,
consisted of stock options with an exercise price greater than the average
market price of the Class A Common Stock. These options were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Potentially dilutive shares

804,490

13,800

79,068

No

te
7 Investments and Marketable Securities

We classify our investments and
marketable securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the
classifications defined in SFAS No. 115,

Accounting
for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.

SFAS
No. 115 requires that

changes in the market value of
available-for-sale securities are reflected in the accumulated other
comprehensive income caption of stockholders’ equity in the balance sheet,
until we dispose of the securities. Once these securities are disposed of,
either by sale or maturity, the accumulated changes in market value are
transferred to investment income. On the cash flow statements, changes in the
balances of

available-for-sale

securities are shown as purchases, sales and maturities of investments and
marketable securities under investing activities.

Changes in market value of

trading

securities are recorded in
investment income as they occur, and the related cash flow statement includes
changes in the balances of trading securities as operating cash flows.

The amortized cost, gross
unrealized holding gains, gross unrealized holding losses and aggregate fair
value of investment securities at December 31, 2005, were as follows (in
thousands):

F-18

The amortized cost, gross
unrealized holding gains, gross unrealized holding losses and aggregate fair
value of investment securities at December 31, 2004, were as follows (in
thousands):

Changes in unrealized gains and
losses on investment securities are included in these financial statements as
follows (in thousands):

All investments and marketable
securities are classified as available-for-sale securities; therefore, there
are no unrealized gains or losses on trading securities recorded in investment
income.

The following table shows the
number, aggregate market value and unrealized losses (in thousands) of
investments with market values that were less than amortized cost as of
December 31, 2005. These lower market values are caused by short-term fluctuations
in interest rates and are not a reflection of the credit worthiness of the
issuer.  Market values are expected to
recover to the amortized cost prior to maturity.

As of December 31, 2004, the
number, aggregate market value and unrealized losses (in thousands) of investments
with market values that were less than amortized cost were:

F-19

Zebra is a limited partner in two
non-registered partnerships. The partnerships seek to provide returns to its
partners by making strategic investments in a diversified portfolio of
investment funds. Zebra’s investment as a limited partner allows it to have
liability protection limited to the amount of its investments in the funds.

The contractual maturities of
debt securities at December 31, 2005, were as follows (in thousands):

Using the
specific identification method, the proceeds and realized gains on the sales of
available-for-sale securities were as follows (in thousands):

Note 8
Related-Party Transactions

Unique Building Corporation
(Unique), an entity controlled by certain officers and stockholders of Zebra,
leases a facility to Zebra under a lease described in Note 16. Management
believes that the lease payments are substantially consistent with amounts that
could have been negotiated with third parties on an arm’s-length basis and
represent market conditions at the time of the negotiations.

Lease payments related to the
lease, and recorded as a component of all functional areas, were included in
the consolidated financial statements as follows (in thousands):

Future minimum lease payments
related to the lease as of December 31, 2005, are as follows (in thousands):

F-20

Note 9
Inventories

The components of inventories,
net of allowances, are as follows (in thousands):

Note 10
Property and Equipment

Property and equipment, which
includes assets under capital leases, is comprised of the following (in
thousands):

Other items related to property
and equipment are as follows:

Note 11
Income Taxes

The geographical sources of
income before income taxes were as follows (in thousands):

F-21

Zebra does not provide for
deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries,
which totaled approximately $33,000,000 at December 31, 2005 and $34,000,000 at
December 31, 2004. Should such earnings be remitted to Zebra, foreign tax
credits would be available to substantially offset the U.S. income taxes due
upon repatriation.

The provision for income taxes
consists of the following (in thousands):

The provision for income taxes
differs from the amount computed by applying the U.S. statutory Federal income
tax rate of 35% to income before income taxes. The reconciliation of statutory
and effective income taxes is presented below (in thousands):

Deferred income taxes reflect
the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and such amounts as measured by
tax laws. Based on management’s assessment, it is more likely than not that the
deferred tax assets will be realized through future taxable earnings.

F-22

Tax effects of temporary
differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as
follows (in thousands):

Note 12
Goodwill and Other Intangible Asset Data

During the first quarter of 2002, we implemented SFAS
No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

,
which replaces the requirements to amortize intangible assets with indefinite
lives and goodwill with a requirement for an annual impairment test. SFAS No.
142 also set requirements for identifiable intangible assets.

Intangible asset data are as
follows (in thousands):

F-23

During the first quarter of
2005, a final contingent payment related to the Atlantek acquisition was made
for $1,287,000 and added to goodwill. In addition, we acquired certain assets
of RSI with an adjusted allocation of net goodwill of $6,017,000. See Note 4
for further details.

During 2005, we acquired
intangible assets in the amount of $14,827,000 for customer relationships,
patents and licenses to use certain technology. These intangible assets will
have a commercial life of 5 to 10 years.

Note 13
Other Assets

Other
assets consist of the following (in thousands):

Zebra
invested $10,028,000 in life insurance policies on 48 key executives in each
year above for a total cost of $20,056,000. These policies currently have a
cash surrender value of $21,602,000 and a guaranteed rate of return of 5.65%
through July 28, 2006.

Note 14
401(k) Savings and Profit Sharing Plans

Zebra has a Retirement Savings
and Investment Plan (the 401(k) Plan), which is intended to qualify under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualified employees may
participate in Zebra’s 401(k) Plan by contributing up to 15% of their gross
earnings to the plan subject to certain Internal Revenue Service restrictions.
Zebra matches each participant’s contribution of up to 6% of gross eligible
earnings at the rate of 50%. Zebra may contribute additional amounts to the 401(k)
Plan at the discretion of the Board of Directors, subject to certain legal
limits.

Zebra has a discretionary
profit-sharing plan for qualified employees, to which it contributes a
percentage of eligible payroll each year. Participants are not permitted to
make contributions under the profit-sharing plan.

Company contributions to these
plans, which were charged to operations, approximated the following (in
thousands):

Note 15
Derivative Instruments

In the normal course of business, portions of Zebra’s
operations are subject to fluctuations in currency values. We manage these
risks using derivative financial instruments.

F-24

Hedging of
Net Assets

We use forward contracts and options to manage
exposure related to our pound and euro denominated net assets. We record gains
and losses on these contracts and options in income each quarter along with the
translation gains and losses related to our net euro asset position, which
would ordinarily offset each other. Summary financial information related to
these activities follows (in thousands):

Hedging of Anticipated Sales

During 2003, we began managing the exchange rate risk
of anticipated euro denominated sales using forward contracts and designate
these contracts as cash flow hedges. Unrealized gains and losses on these
contracts are deferred in other comprehensive income until the contracts are
settled and the hedged sales are realized, at which time the deferred gains or
losses will be reported as an increase or decrease to sales. Summary financial
information related to the cash flow hedges of future revenues follows (in
thousands, except percentages):

The above year-to-date gains and losses are the net
pretax gains and losses released from other comprehensive income into earnings
during 2005 and 2004. We expect to release pretax losses in the amount of
$999,000 from other comprehensive income into earnings during 2005 along with
gains and losses on similar contracts entered into early in 2005. Currently,
the initial duration of our forecasted sales hedge contracts is six months.
Effectiveness testing is performed on each contract monthly. We have not
experienced any gains or losses due to ineffectiveness. If we were to
experience such gains or losses, we would record them as a foreign exchange
gain or loss. If we were to cancel or net settle a hedge designated as a cash
flow hedge prior to the scheduled settlement date, we would recognize the gain
or loss on that settlement immediately as a foreign exchange gain or loss.

F-25

Note 16
Commitments and Contingencies

Leases.

In
September 1989, Zebra entered into a lease agreement for its Vernon Hills
facility and certain machinery, equipment, furniture and fixtures with Unique
Building Corporation, a related party. The facility portion of the lease is the
only remaining portion in existence as of December 31, 2005, and is treated as
an operating lease. An amendment to the lease dated July 1997 added 59,150
square feet and extended the term of the existing lease through June 30, 2014.
The lease agreement includes a modification to the base monthly rental, which
goes into effect if the prescribed rent payment is less than the aggregate
principal and interest payments required to be made by Unique under an
Industrial Revenue Bond (IRB).

Minimum future obligations
under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2005 are as follows
(in thousands):

Rent expense for operating
leases charged to operations was as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Rent expense

$

7,822

$

6,404

$

5,591

In addition to the related
party lease noted above, the operating lease information includes a variety of
other properties around the world. These properties are used as manufacturing
facilities, distribution centers and sales offices. Lease terms range from six
months to 25 years with breaking periods specified in the lease agreements.

Letter of
credit.

In connection with the lease agreements
described above, Zebra has guaranteed Unique’s full and prompt payment under
Unique’s letter of credit agreement with a bank. The contingent liability of
Zebra under this guaranty as of December 31, 2005 is $700,000, which is the
limit of Zebra’s guaranty throughout the term of the IRB.

Legal proceedings.

On April 24, 2003, Paxar Americas, Inc.
(Paxar Americas) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Ohio against Zebra and certain of
its subsidiaries. Paxar Americas’ Complaint alleges that certain of Zebra’s
products infringe on one or more of eight identified Paxar Americas patents,
although not every product is accused of infringing each patent. Zebra filed an
Answer to Paxar Americas’ Complaint, denying Paxar Americas’ allegations of
infringement and asserting several affirmative defenses, including the
invalidity of Paxar Americas’ asserted patent claims. Paxar Americas moved to
amend its Complaint to add two patents and a trademark-based claim and the
Court granted the motion. Paxar Americas filed its Amended Complaint on March
31, 2005, dropping one of the eight originally asserted patents and adding two
newly asserted patents. Paxar Americas also filed a motion to withdraw another
of the originally asserted patents from the Amended Complaint. Zebra filed its
Answer denying all infringement and asserting affirmative defenses including
the invalidity of Paxar Americas’ asserted patent claims. On July 15, 2004, the
Court heard arguments from the parties regarding the proper construction of the
claims of the patents-in-suit and the parties submitted post-argument briefs.
On April 20, 2005, at the Court’s request, the parties identified disputed
claim terms regarding the newly asserted patents and provided their respective
positions regarding those terms to the Court. Discovery closed on August 16,
2005. No decision has yet been issued in connection with the July 15, 2004
claim construction hearing. At the Court’s request the parties included in
their summary judgment briefing additional arguments concerning claim
construction in view of patents added to Paxar Americas’ Amended Complaint as
well as developments in patent law subsequent to the claim construction
hearing. On October 7, 2005, the parties completed extensive summary judgment
briefing, and the Court heard arguments from the parties regarding summary
judgment motions and the additional

F-26

claim
construction issues on November 16, 2005. 
No decision has yet been issued in connection with the November 16, 2005
summary judgment and claim construction hearing.   The Court has scheduled a trial date
beginning on January 16, 2007.

We believe we have strong
defenses to Paxar Americas’ infringement claims, but the outcome of litigation
is inherently uncertain, particularly in cases such as this where sophisticated
factual issues must be assessed and complex technical issues must be decided.
As a result, we cannot accurately predict the outcome of this lawsuit, and we
are unable to conclude that a loss is likely to occur. In the event we are unsuccessful
in our defense of Paxar Americas’ infringement claims, we could be liable for
economic and other damages, which could be material. Based on our damage expert’s
report, we believe damages could be in the range of $100,000 to $20,000,000,
but Paxar claims damages in an amount substantially higher and has alleged
willful infringement, which, if proved, could treble damages. In addition, we
may be forced to incur ongoing licensing expenses or to change how we design,
manufacture and market certain of our products. We have and will continue to
incur substantial legal fees to prosecute and defend this lawsuit. Consistent
with the requirements of SFAS No. 5,

Accounting for Contingencies,

no liability has been recorded in
Zebra’s consolidated financial statements as of

December 31

, 2005.

On January 31, 2003, a Writ
of Summons was filed in the Nantes Commercial Court, Nantes, France, by
Printherm, a French corporation, and several of its shareholders (collectively,
“Printherm”), against Zebra Technologies France (“ZTF”), a French corporation
and wholly-owned subsidiary of Zebra. Printherm seeks damages in the amount of
€15,304,000 and additional unspecified damages in connection with ZTF’s
termination of negotiations in December 2000 respecting the proposed
acquisition by Zebra of the capital stock of Printherm. The negotiation was
terminated based on unsatisfactory results of the ongoing due diligence. We
believe that Printherm’s claims are without merit and that a loss is not likely
to occur. We will vigorously defend the action.

Printherm filed bankruptcy
proceedings on August 30, 2004, and the Commercial Court ordered its
liquidation on November 30, 2004. The case was put on hold until the Court
appointed liquidator filed a submission in August 2005, which started the
proceedings again. ZTF filed its answer on November 19, 2005, in anticipation
of a Court-ordered December 19, 2005 hearing date. In response to a request by
Printherm’s liquidator, the Court postponed the hearing date so as to provide
time for Printherm to respond to ZTF’s answer. The hearing is not expected to
occur until sometime during the second quarter of 2006.

Note 17
Segment Data and Export Sales

Zebra
is organized with two internal business units, bar code and card printers.
These business units have similar economic characteristics, products and
services, production processes, types of customers, distribution methods, and
regulatory environments. Additionally, there are significant shared services
supporting both business units. Because of these similarities, we have
aggregated our internal business units and have treated them as one reportable
segment as permitted by SFAS No. 131,

Disclosures
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.

Information regarding Zebra’s
operations by geographic area is contained in the following table. These
amounts (in thousands) are reported in the geographic area of the destination
of the final sale. We manage our
business based on these regions rather than by individual countries.

F-27

Net
sales by major product category are as follows (in thousands):

Note 18
Deferred Compensation Plan

Since
January 1, 2002, Zebra offers a deferred compensation plan that permits
executive management employees to defer portions of their compensation and to
select a method of investing these funds. The salaries that have been deferred
since the plan’s inception have been accrued and the only expense, other than
salaries, related to this plan is the gain/loss from the changes to the
deferred compensation liability, which is charged to compensation expense. To
fund this plan, Zebra purchases corporate-owned whole-life insurance contracts
on the related employees, of which Zebra is the beneficiary. The following
table shows the income, asset and liability amounts related to this plan (in
thousands):

Year ended December 31,




Gain on cash surrender value of
  life insurance policies included in investment income

$


$


$


December 31,


December 31,


Deferred compensation liability
  included in other long-term liability

$

5,521

$

3,894

Cash surrender value included in other assets

$

4,751

$

3,401

Note 19 Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities

During the third quarter of 2003, we
initiated a plan to close our engineering site in Varades, France. This plan
was announced in October 2003 and is accounted for under SFAS No. 146,

Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities

.
All exit costs associated with this activity are identified on a separate line
of our income statement, as part of operating expenses. Our consolidation plan
is intended to reduce costs and improve manufacturing efficiency.

Our Varades facility conducted the product
development for our line of card printers and included the European service
center for these printers. We transferred the product development activities to
Camarillo, California, where we have manufactured these printers since 2001. We
transferred the European card printer service operation to our Preston, United
Kingdom, facility where the Europe, Middle East and African distribution of
these printers already occurs. The Varades facility has been completely closed
by the end of 2004. As of December 31, 2005, we incurred the following exit
costs (in thousands):

We expect to incur no further costs for this
project.

F-28

During January 2004, we announced plans to
consolidate our Warwick, Rhode Island, printer manufacturing and repair service
into our Camarillo, California and Vernon Hills, Illinois locations. This
transition was substantially complete by the end of 2004. The Warwick facility
will continue to manufacture and distribute label printer supplies, as well as
house engineering and product management functions for mobile products, and the
key account sales. The following table shows the exit costs incurred as of
December 31, 2005 (in thousands).

During December 2004, we announced plans to
close and consolidate our Wakefield, Rhode Island, facility into our other
North American facilities. This transition was substantially complete by the
end of 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we incurred the following exit costs (in
thousands):

Zebra had a leased warehouse facility in
Wokingham, United Kingdom, that was not being utilized. The lease term was
through October 2010, with annual rent of £192,500. The facility had been
subleased through December 2003; however, due to current market conditions in
that area, efforts to market for subleasing the property since that time did
not result in a new subtenant. Therefore, during December 2005, we came to an
agreement with the landlord and paid £860,000 to surrender the remaining term
of the lease. This amount had been fully reserved during the first quarter of
2005.

We expect to incur no further costs for any
of these exit activities.

F-29

Liabilities and expenses related to exit
activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 were as follows (in thousands):

Note 20 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Stockholders’ equity contains certain items classified as other
comprehensive income, including:

•

Foreign currency translation adjustments

related to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional
currency other than the dollar. We are required to translate the subsidiary
functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of
historical, month-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of
rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustments component of other
comprehensive income.

•

Unrealized holding gains (losses) on foreign
currency hedging activities

relate to derivative
instruments used to hedge the currency exchange rates for forecasted euro
sales. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred
income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transaction
occurs. See Note 15 for more details.

•

Unrealized gains (losses) on investments
classified as available-for-sale

are deferred from
income statement recognition. See Note 7 for more details.

F-30

The components of other
comprehensive income included in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income are as follows (in thousands):

The components of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets
are as follows (in thousands):

Note 21 Major Customers

ScanSource, Inc. is our most
significant customer and our net sales to them as a percent of total net sales
were as follows:

Year ended December 31,




ScanSource

15.6

14.1

13.8

No other customer accounted for
10% or more of total net sales during these years.

F-31

Note 22
Quarterly Results of Operations (unaudited)

(Amounts in thousands, except
per share data)

F-32

(1)

Restated
for a 3-for-2 stock split in August 2004 paid in the form of a 50% stock
dividend.

F-33

ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION

Schedule II

Valuation
and Qualifying Accounts

(Amounts in thousands)

See accompanying report of independent
registered public accounting firm.

F-34