Item 1.Business

Trimble Navigation Limited, a California corporation (“Trimble” or “the Company” or “we” or “our” or “us”), provides technology solutions that enable professionals and field mobile workers to improve or transform their work processes. Our solutions are used across a range of industries including agriculture, architecture, civil engineering, construction, environmental management, government, natural resources, transportation and utilities. Representative Trimble customers include engineering and construction firms, contractors, surveying companies, farmers and agricultural companies, enterprise firms with large-scale fleets, energy, mining and utility companies, and state, federal and municipal governments.



Our products are sold based on return on investment and frequently provide other benefits such as lower operational costs, higher productivity, improved quality, enhanced safety and compliance, and reduced environmental impact. Product examples include: equipment that automates large industrial equipment such as tractors and bulldozers; surveying instruments; integrated systems that track fleets of vehicles and workers and provide real-time information and powerful analytics to the back-office; data collection systems that enable the management of large amounts of geo- referenced information; software solutions that connect all aspects of a construction site or farm; and building information modeling (BIM) software that is used throughout the design, build, and operation of buildings. We also manufacture components for in-vehicle navigation and telematics systems, and timing modules used in the synchronization of wireless networks.



Many of our products integrate positioning or location technologies with wireless communications and software or information technologies. Information about location or position is transmitted via a wireless link to a domain-specific software application which enhances the productivity of the worker, asset or work process. Position is provided through a number of technologies including the Global Positioning System (GPS), other Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) and their augmentation systems, and systems that use laser, optical, inertial or other technologies to establish position.



Software is a key element of most of our solutions. Our software may be delivered either via a licensed or embedded software model or in a hosted environment using a subscription-based Software as a Service (SaaS) model. Many of our software and services offerings can be used as stand-alone applications, or as part of a broader, more integrated industry workflow solution. Examples include software systems for conceptual and structural design, and software for business management/optimization functions in specific industries.



We design, develop and market our own products. The majority of our software products are engineered and developed in-house, with some use of third party applications, modules or contract development. Our manufacturing strategy includes a combination of in-house assembly and third-party subcontractors. Our global operations include major development, manufacturing, or logistics operations in the United States, Sweden, Finland, Germany, New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, China, and India. Products are sold through dealers, representatives, joint ventures, and other channels throughout the world, typically in more than 100 countries. These channels are supported by our own offices located in 34 countries around the world.



We began operations in 1978 and incorporated in California in 1981. Our common stock has been publicly traded on NASDAQ since 1990 under the symbol TRMB.



Technology Overview

Broadly, our technological capabilities span the design, development and integration of hardware, software and communications systems. These capabilities include domain-specific application software development, real-time and embedded software development, analytics, development of sensor technologies and systems - including those used for geographic positioning or location, 1, 2 or 3D measurement, asset management, and the integration of real-time connectivity and communications.  Our solutions typically integrate some combination of these technologies, in ways designed to specifically improve a work task or a work process within an industry.



Our capabilities in positioning and sensing technologies include high-precision satellite positioning using Global Navigation Satellite System, or GNSS, systems, laser measurement, alignment and 3D scanning, optical measurement, metric digital imaging, inertial measurement technologies, and RF Identification (RFID) technologies. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from applying Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), technology to terrestrial applications. GNSS includes the network of 24 orbiting U.S. Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites, the Russian GLONASS radio navigation satellite system, as well as the future European Community and Chinese radio navigation satellite systems. Our high precision GNSS products are based on proprietary receiver technology and, over time, advances in positioning, wireless communications, and information technologies have enabled us to add more capability to our products and thereby deliver more value to our users. One example is the Trimble RTX service, which is delivered via satellite or wireless networks to enable users in many parts of the world to determine high accuracy positions using a single GNSS receiver. Our laser and optical products either measure distances and angles to provide a









position in three dimensional space or are used as highly accurate laser references from which a position can be established.  Laser scanning and optical imaging systems produce clouds of 3D points, or produce high resolution digital imagery from which accurate measurements can be made.





We frequently integrate or embed wireless communications technologies in our solutions to facilitate real-time data flow, communication and situational awareness across sites and between work sites or vehicles and offices. Wireless communication techniques used include cellular, WiFi, Bluetooth, satellite communications and proprietary wireless communications technologies.



Business Strategy

Our business strategy is developed around an analysis of several key elements:



•Attractive markets- We focus on underserved markets that offer potential for revenue growth, profitability and market leadership.



•Innovative solutions that provide significant benefits to our customers- We seek to apply our technology to applications in which position data is important and where we can create unique value by enabling enhanced productivity in the field or field to back office. We look for opportunities in which the rate of technological change is high and which have a requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into a solution.



•Distribution channels to best access our markets- We select distribution channels that best serve the needs of individual markets. These channels can include independent dealers, joint ventures, OEM sales, distribution alliances with key partners as well as direct sales to end users. We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy and continue to develop international channels.



Business Segments and Markets

We are organized into four reporting segments encompassing our various applications and product lines: Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions, Mobile Solutions and Advanced Devices. Our segments are distinguished by the markets they serve. Each segment consists of businesses which are responsible for product development, marketing, sales, strategy and financial performance.



Engineering and Construction

The Engineering and Construction segment primarily serves customers working in architecture, engineering, construction, surveying, natural resources and government.



In the planning, design, construction and operation/maintenance of civil infrastructure such as roads, railways, airports, power plants and transmission lines, our solutions are used across the entire project lifecycle to improve productivity, reduce waste and re-work, and enable more informed decision making through enhanced situational awareness, data flow and project collaboration. At the same time, our solutions can improve worker safety and reduce environmental impact. Our suite of integrated products and technologies in this area includes software for optimized route selection and design, systems to automatically guide and control construction equipment such as bulldozers, graders and paving equipment, systems to monitor, track and manage assets, equipment and workers, and software to facilitate the sharing and communication of data in real time. Together, these solutions are designed









to transform how work is done within the civil engineering industry.



An example is the Connected Site, which integrates data and information across the entire construction process. This includes data from site positioning and machine control systems, construction asset management equipment and services and various software applications. Utilizing wireless and internet-based site communications infrastructure, Trimble Connected Site solutions include the ability to track and control equipment, perform remote machine diagnostics and reduce re-work. By leveraging the Connected Site technology, contractors gain greater insight into their operations, helping them to improve productivity and asset utilization while at the same time lowering costs and improving worker safety.



To bolster the software solutions we provide to the Connected Site, we formed a joint venture with Caterpillar in October of 2008, called VirtualSite Solutions, or VSS. VSS develops software for fleet management and connected worksite solutions. Its initial products are subscription-based software solutions that include asset management and machine diagnostics capabilities. VSS solutions, as part of the Connected Site portfolio, are being sold through an independent dealer channel under the name of SITECH. We expect to have all initially targeted trade areas covered by the end of 2013. A separate joint venture with Caterpillar, Caterpillar-Trimble Control Technologies (CTCT) was formed in 2002 to develop the next generation of advanced electronic guidance and control products for earthmoving machines. The joint venture develops machine control products that use site design information combined with accurate positioning technology to automatically control dozer blades and other machine tools. The joint venture supplies both Trimble and Caterpillar, who each market, distribute, service and support the products using both companies' independent distribution channels. Caterpillar offers products as a factory-installed option, while Trimble continues to address the aftermarket with products for earthmoving machines from Caterpillar and other equipment manufacturers.







We sell and distribute our products in the Engineering and Construction segment through multiple global networks of independent dealers with expertise and customer relationships in their respective segments, each supported by Trimble personnel. These channels are supplemented by relationships that create additional channel breadth including our joint ventures with Caterpillar and Nikon, direct strategic account relationships, as well as private branding arrangements with other companies.



Competitors in this segment are typically companies that provide optical, laser or GNSS positioning products as well as companies that produce software specific to the construction process. Our principal competitors are Topcon Corporation and









Hexagon AB.



Representative products sold in this segment include:

Trimble VX Spatial Station—Integrating the technologies of advanced optical and robotic surveying, metric imaging and 3D scanning, the Trimble® VX™ Spatial Station is a unique, highly versatile, accurate and complete 3D measurement solution designed for surveyors. Trimble VISION™ technology provides video-assisted remote instrument control and advanced 3D models and image-rendered 3D surfaces can be produced when the system is combined with Trimble RealWorks™ software.



Trimble R10 GNSS System—Introduced in the fourth quarter of 2012, the product includes new features including an enhanced Trimble HD-GNSS processing engine, Trimble SurePoint ™ technology, an electronic bubble and traceable tilt value system which replaces conventional spirit levels used on surveyors poles - and Trimble 360 satellite tracking, and the Trimble xFill™ service which enables customers to continue working during loss of radio or cellular communications by making use of Trimble's satellite based GNSS data services, providing coverage in many areas within the Americas, Europe, Russia and CIS, Africa, Asia and Australia. Our R10 GNSS system combines advanced receiver technology and a proven system design to provide maximum accuracy and productivity for a variety of surveying applications.



Trimble Access Software—Our Trimble Access software is a powerful field and office surveying solution that expedites data collection, processing, analysis and project information delivery through streamlined workflows and internet-enabled collaboration and control amongst project team members. With Trimble Access software, surveyors have access to powerful yet familiar tools for typical work such as topographic surveys, staking, or control as well as various streamlined workflows for specialized applications, such as road surveying, tunneling, monitoring and mining.



GeoSpatial Solutions—Our GeoSpatial solutions family enables mobile mapping companies to capture georeferenced data, extract features and attributes, and analyze conditions and change, thereby generating information to better manage assets and operations. Aerial and land mobile mapping systems incorporating imaging and 3D laser scanning, combined with powerful GIS, photogrammetry and feature extraction software, generate high accuracy as-built drawings and 3D models for the transportation, utilities, energy transmission and distribution industries.



Gatewing X100 Aerial Mobile Mapping System—The Gatewing X100 system integrates a revolutionary lightweight and autonomous unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) into a high-tech terrain mapping solution incorporating mission planning, automatic field image acquisition and fully digital and automated image processing software. The Gatewing X100 system expands our customer's capabilities by providing a solution that delivers data-rich mapping of areas with ease of access and reduced costs. The system is used across multiple industries, for applications such as topographic surveying, volume calculations in mining, erosion monitoring, and infrastructure mapping.



GCS Family of Grade Control Systems—Trimble grade control systems use GPS, total station and other positioning technology along with design information to position the blade or bucket for earthmoving and site preparation. Trimble offers a complete line of systems that are easy to use, fully upgradeable and flexible enough to meet a wide range of application and job site requirements. Use of these systems enables contractors to finish projects faster with less rework, improved material usage and lower costs.



Trimble Construction Manager Software—The Trimble Construction Manager software enables the management of construction assets from one centralized software interface. The software works with one of several hardware locator devices to help track and manage the use of assets on and off site, leading to improved equipment productivity, fuel consumption, and maintenance monitoring. VirtualSite Solutions, a joint venture between Caterpillar and Trimble, was formed to develop the next generation of software for fleet management and connected worksite solutions to be sold through the SITECH dealer distribution channel.



Tekla products—Tekla provides a suite of software including Tekla BIM, Tekla BIMSight, Tekla Structures, and Tekla Civil.  The Tekla suite of software can be used by contractors, structural engineers, steel detailers, and fabricators, as well as concrete detailers and manufacturers. The highly detailed as-built structural models are designed to make building contractors more efficient and productive, while also facilitating easy collaboration and sharing of data across different disciplines, thus making construction processes more precise and efficient.



Trimble SketchUp Software—SketchUp ® software enables architects, engineers and professionals in related disciplines to design, document and validate building plans by constructing interactive 3D models at any degree of complexity. SketchUp offers an easy-to-learn user interface and accessible pricing options which have served to widely proliferate the use of 3D models. SketchUp Pro software allows project stakeholders across multiple disciplines to exchange CAD and BIM data in a variety of standard formats and adds functionality for documentation, quantitative reporting, and other advanced modeling operations.











Proliance Software—Proliance® software allows infrastructure-intensive organizations to optimize the Design-Build-Operate project lifecycle for complex capital projects, construction and real estate programs, and extensive facility portfolios. Our Proliance software was designed for large building owner/operators, real estate developers, and engineering-driven organizations managing $250 million or more annually in new project construction or facility renovations.



Trimble Layout Solutions—Trimble layout solutions meet the needs of general, concrete, mechanical, electrical and plumbing contractors. Using the Trimble MEP layout solution, mechanical, electrical and plumbing contractors can increase productivity significantly by providing precise location of pipe, duct, and cable tray hangers and avoiding costly mistakes in the building process.



Spectra Precision Branded Products—Our Spectra Precision® products include a broad range of laser based tools for interior, drywall and ceilings, HVAC, and mechanical contractors. Designed to replace traditional methods of measurement and leveling for a wide range of interior construction applications, our laser tools are easy to learn and use and include rotating lasers for horizontal leveling and vertical alignment, as well as laser pointers and a laser based distance measuring device. The line of products also includes surveying instruments such as total stations, GNSS receivers and field data collectors.

Field Solutions

Our Field Solutions segment addresses the agriculture and geographic information system (GIS) markets.

Our agriculture products consist of guidance and positioning systems, automated application systems and information management solutions that enable farmers to improve crop performance, profitability and environmental quality. Trimble precision agriculture solutions can assist farmers throughout every step of their farming process—beginning with land preparation and throughout the planting, nutrient and pest management, and harvesting phases of a crop cycle. We provide manual and automated navigation guidance for tractors and other farm equipment used in spraying, planting, cultivation and harvesting applications. The benefits to the farmer include faster machine operation, higher yields, and lower consumption of chemicals than conventional equipment. We also provide positioning solutions for leveling agricultural fields in irrigation applications and aligning drainage systems to better manage water flow in fields. In addition, we provide solutions to automate applications of pesticide and seeding. Our Connected Farm strategy enables information management solutions for data management, field to office data transfer and record keeping.

We use multiple distribution channels to access the agricultural market, including independent dealers and partners such as CNH Global. A significant portion of our sales came through CNH Global and dealer networks. Competitors in this market are either vertically integrated implement companies such as John Deere, or agricultural instrumentation suppliers such as Raven, Hemisphere GPS, and Novariant.

Our GIS product line is centered on handheld data collectors that gather information in the field to be incorporated into GIS databases. Our handheld unit enables this data to be collected and automatically stored while confirming the location of the asset. By utilizing a combination of wireless technologies this information can be communicated from the field worker to the back-office GIS and also gives the field worker the ability to download information from the database. This capability provides significant advantages to users including improved productivity, accuracy and access to information in the field.

Distribution for GIS products is primarily through a network of independent dealers and business partners, supported by Trimble personnel. Primary markets for our GIS products and solutions include both governmental and commercial users. Users are most often municipal governments and natural resource agencies. Commercial users include utility companies. Competitors in this market are typically survey instrument companies utilizing GNSS technology such as Topcon and Leica.

Representative products sold in this segment include:

CFX/FMX—Our CFX and FMX are touchscreen displays offering affordable guidance, steering and precision agriculture capabilities. They provide GNSS-based functionality for vehicle operators to steer tractors, sprayers, fertilizer applicators, air seeders and large tillage tools that require consistent pass-to-pass accuracy to help save fuel, increase efficiency and reduce input costs for agricultural operations.

Field-IQ system—Our Field-IQ system is a section control and variable rate application control system that prevents seed and fertilizer overlap, controls the rate of material applications and monitors seed delivery and fertilizer blockage.

Autopilot System—Our GNSS-enabled, agricultural navigation system connects to a tractor’s steering system and automatically steers the tractor along a precise path to within three centimeters or less. This enables both higher machine productivity and more precise application of seed and chemicals, thereby reducing costs to the farmer.









EZ-Steer System—Our value-added assisted steering system, when combined with any of our guidance display systems, automatically steers agricultural vehicles along a path within 20 centimeters or less. This system installs in less than thirty minutes and is designed to reduce gaps and overlaps in spraying, fertilizing, and other field applications, as well as reduce operator fatigue.

Trimble Connected Farm solution—Our end-to-end solution combines in-cab precision control, field record-keeping and seamless field to office information management.

GreenSeeker and WeedSeeker Sensors—Our crop sensing technology reduces farmers’ costs and environmental impact by controlling the application of nitrogen, herbicide, and other crop inputs for optimum plant growth.

Juno Series—Our Juno®family includes compact and cost-effective GPS handhelds designed to equip an entire workforce for data collection and fieldwork.

GeoExplorer Series—Our GeoExplorer®family combines a GNSS receiver in a rugged handheld making it easy to collect and maintain data about objects in the field.

Fieldport Software—Our Fieldport®software focuses on automating field service processes and operational efficiency for water and wastewater utility customers.

UtilityCenter Software—Our UtilityCenter®software is a GIS-based enterprise suite of modules oriented towards the electric and gas utilities market. Modules include Outage Management or OMS, Mobile Asset Management, Data Collection, Staking, Network Tracing & Isolation and Field-based Editing.

Mobile Solutions

Our Mobile Solutions segment provides both hardware and software applications for managing mobile work, mobile workers, and mobile assets. The software is provided in both a client server model or web-based. Our software is provided through our hosted platform for a monthly subscription service fee or as a perpetual license with annual maintenance and support fees.

Our vehicle solutions typically include an onboard proprietary hardware device consisting of a GPS receiver, business logic, sensor interface, and a wireless modem. Our solution usually includes the communication service from/to the vehicle to our data center and access over the internet to the application software.

Our mobile worker solutions include a rugged handset device and software designed to automate service technician work in the field at the point of customer contact. The mobile worker handset solutions also synchronize to a client server at the back office for integration with other mission-critical business applications.

Our scheduling and dispatch solution is an enterprise software program to optimize scheduling and routing of field service technicians. For dynamic capacity management, our capacity planner, capacity controller, and intelligent appointer modules round out this innovative service delivery automation technology.

Our market strategy targets opportunities in specific vertical markets where we believe we can provide a unique value to the end-user by tailoring our solutions for a particular industry. Major markets include transportation and logistics, telecommunications, utilities, field service, construction logistics, direct store delivery, forestry, public safety, and oil and gas. In August 2011, we acquired privately-held PeopleNet, a provider of solutions to the transportation and logistics market.  PeopleNet provides fleets with software and hardware solutions that help manage regulatory compliance, fuel costs, driver safety, and customer visibility.  In June 2012, Trimble acquired privately-held GEOTrac Systems Inc., a provider of fleet management and worker safety solutions for the oil and gas industry. In October 2012, we acquired privately-held TMW Systems, a provider of enterprise software to transportation and logistics companies.  TMW's transportation software platform serves as a central hub from which the core operations of transportation organizations are managed, data is stored and analyzed, and mission critical business processes are automated.

Our enterprise strategy focuses on sales to large enterprise accounts with more than 1,000 vehicles or routes. Here, in addition to a Trimble-hosted solution, we can also integrate our service directly into the customer’s IT infrastructure, giving them improved control of their information. In this market, we sell directly to end-users. Sales cycles tend to be long due to field trials followed by an extensive decision-making process. Our principal competitors in this segment are Qualcomm, Fleetmatics, Teletrac, and McLeod.

Representative products sold in this segment include:

Fleet Productivity—Our fleet productivity solution offerings are comprised primarily of the GeoManager, PeopleNet, and FleetWorks mobile platforms. The GeoManager system provides field service companies different levels of service that run from snapshots of fleet activity to real-time fleet dispatch capability via access to the web-based platform through a secure internet









connection. The PeopleNet system includes solutions encompassing route management, safety and compliance, end-to-end vehicle management, and supply chain communications.  PeopleNet's products are used by greater than 1,500 transportation fleets in the US and Canada.   The CarCube/FleetWorks solution is tailored for transportation and logistics companies in Europe and Australia.

Taskforce—The Taskforce software solution provides scheduling and dispatch solutions for field service technicians by synchronizing the right human and physical resources required to optimize a field service resource network. The system manages significant numbers of dynamic scheduling resources in an unpredictable field service environment to increase productivity, field force utilization, and control-to-field employee ratios.

Enterprise Software—TMW Systems provides enterprise software to transportation and logistics companies.   The company's software platform automates business processes spanning the entire surface transportation lifecycle, delivering visibility, control, and decision support for the intricate relationships and complex processes involved in the movement of freight.    TMW's enterprise software currently integrates with PeopleNet's fleet productivity solutions, and jointly they serve more than 3,000 fleets around the world.

Consumer Packaged Goods, or CPG—This software solution operates in the Microsoft CE/Pocket or WinMobile PC environment and addresses the pre-sales, delivery, route sales, and full service vending functions performed by mobile workers. The software handles all communications from/to the mobile computer as well as from/to the host and any other ERP or decision support systems.

Public Safety—We provide a suite of solutions for the public safety sector including our PocketCitation system which is an electronic ticketing system that enables law enforcement officers to issue traffic citations utilizing a mobile handheld device. Within this sector, we also provide desktop software which enables accident investigators and other public safety professionals to reconstruct and simulate vehicle accidents.

Cengea Solutions—Cengea provides spatially-enabled land and supply chain management software solutions to improve business processes across the forestry, agriculture and environment/natural resources industries.

Advanced Devices

Advanced Devices includes the product lines from our Embedded Technologies, Timing, Applanix, Trimble Outdoors, Military and Advanced Systems (MAS), and ThingMagic businesses. With the exception of Trimble Outdoors and Applanix these businesses share several common characteristics: they are hardware centric, generally market to original equipment manufacturers, or OEM, system integrators or service providers, and have products that can be utilized in a number of different end-user markets and applications. The various operations that comprise this segment were aggregated on the basis that no single operation accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue, operating income or assets.

Within Embedded Technologies and Timing, we supply GNSS modules, licensing and complementary technologies, and GNSS-integrated sub-system solutions for applications requiring precise position, time or frequency. Embedded Technologies and Timing serves a broad range of vertical markets including telecommunications, automotive electronics, and commercial electronics. Sales are made directly to OEMs, system integrators, value-added resellers and service providers who incorporate our components into a complete system-level solution. We have a cooperative licensing deal with Nokia for our Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), patents related to designated wireless products and services involving location technologies, such as GPS, assisted GPS, or Galileo. We also have a licensing agreement with Marvell Semiconductors for our full GPS Digital Signal Processor (DSP) software as well as tools for development support and testing. Competitors in this market include Symmetricom, Inc. and u-blox.

Our MAS business supplies GPS receivers and embedded modules that use the military’s GPS advanced capabilities. The modules are principally used in aircraft navigation and timing applications. Military products are sold directly to either the U.S. Government or defense contractors. Sales are also made to authorized foreign end users. Competitors in this market include Rockwell Collins, L3 and Raytheon.

Our Trimble Outdoors business utilizes GPS-enabled smartphones and feature phones to provide information for outdoor recreational activities. Some of the recreational activities include hiking, biking, backpacking, hunting, fishing, and boating.  Consumers purchase the Trimble Outdoors product through our wireless operator partners which include AT&T, Verizon, Sprint and T-Mobile or from our smartphone channels which include the Apple iTunes and Google Play stores. Competitors in this market includeAlltrails and Motion X.

Our Applanix business is a leading provider of advanced products and enabling solutions that maximize productivity through mobile mapping and positioning to professional markets worldwide. Applanix develops, manufactures, sells, and supports high-value, precision products that combine GNSS with inertial sensors for accurate measurement of position and attitude, flight management systems, and scalable mobile mapping solutions used in airborne, land, and marine applications. Sales are made by our direct sales force to end users, systems integrators, and OEMs, and through regional agents. Competitors include Leica, IGI and Novatel.









Our ThingMagic business is a leading provider of Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) reader modules, finished/fixed-position RFID readers and design services. ThingMagic RFID readers support demanding high-volume applications deployed by some of the world’s largest industrial automation firms, manufacturers, healthcare organizations, retailers and consumer companies. ThingMagic consulting, design and development services assist customers with the integration of auto-identification and sensing technologies into everyday products and solutions. Sales are made directly to OEMs, system integrators, value-added resellers and solution providers who incorporate our technology into point products or complete system-level solutions. Competitors include Motorola, Impinj, Alien Technologies and Sirit.

Representative products sold in this segment include:

GPS Receiver Modules—The Lassen®, Copernicus®, Condor™, and Panda™families of GPS modules are full-function GPS modules in a variety of form factors, some smaller than your fingertip.

TM3000 Asset Tracking Device—Our TM3000 product is a flexible, open platform that enables a broad range of applications such as: fleet management, mobile asset tracking and recovery, and driver monitoring and assistance. This device integrates wireless communications, a positioning function, and an application engine in a package designed to meet the needs of service-focused businesses.

Thunderbolt GPS Disciplined Clock—Our Thunderbolt®clock is a fifth-generation product from our GPS Timing and Synchronization division, which outputs precision time and frequency. It also serves as the architectural basis for GPS disciplined clocks sold to manufacturers of CDMA, WiMax and LTE infrastructure.

Applanix POS/AV System—Our integrated GNSS/inertial system for airborne surveying measures aircraft position to an accuracy of a few centimeters and aircraft attitude (angular orientation) to an accuracy of 30 arc seconds or better. This system is typically interfaced to large format cameras and scanning lasers for producing geo-referenced topographic maps of the terrain.

Applanix DSS Digital Sensor System—Our digital airborne imaging solution produces high-resolution orthophoto map products. Certified by the USGS, the system consists of a mapping grade digital camera that is tightly integrated with a GNSS/Inertial system, flight management system, or FMS, and processing software for automatic geo-referencing of each pixel.

Force 524D Module—This dual frequency, embedded GPS module is used in a variety of military airborne applications.

Trimble Outdoors Service—Our website (www.trimbleoutdoors.com) allows consumers to plan trips that sync with their GPS-enabled cell phones to enable off road navigation. Consumers can also research specific trips on-line as part of trip pre-planning.  After a trip users are able to share outdoor and off-road experiences on-line with their friends and family on the Trimble Outdoors website or through Facebook and Twitter.

Trimble Indoor Mobile Mapping Solution—Our Indoor Mobile Mapping Solution, or TIMMS, is the optimal fusion of technologies for capturing spatial data of indoor and other GNSS-denied areas. It produces both LiDAR and spherical video and enables the creation of accurate, real-life representations (maps, models) of interior spaces with all of their contents.

ThingMagic RFID Readers—Our RFID readers include the Mercury®family of embedded reader modules for the integration of RFID into OEM products including printers, handheld scanners and other stationary and mobile devices. Our broad portfolio of finished/fixed-position RFID readers are used to develop asset tracking, personnel identification, secure access and other solutions that accelerate productivity and address customer needs for manageability, scalability, security, low total cost of ownership, and enterprise network integration.

Acquisitions and Joint Ventures

Our growth strategy is centered on developing and marketing innovative and complete value-added solutions to our existing customers, while also marketing them to new customers and geographic regions. In some cases, this has led to partnering with or acquiring companies that bring technologies, products or distribution capabilities that will allow us to establish a market beachhead, penetrate a market more effectively, or develop solutions more quickly than if we had done so solely through internal development. The following companies were acquired during fiscal 2012 and are combined in the results of operations since the date of acquisition:

Vico Software, Inc.

On October 31, 2012, we acquired the assets of privately-held Vico Software, Inc. (Vico) of Boulder, Colorado, a provider of 5D virtual construction software and consulting services.  The Vico business performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

Refraction Technology, Inc.









On October 4, 2012, we acquired the assets of privately-held Refraction Technology, Inc. (REF TEK) of Plano, Texas, a leading provider of seismic sensors and high-frequency data logging systems.  The REF TEK business performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

TMW Systems, Inc.

On October 2, 2012, we acquired privately-held TMW Systems Holding LLC, including its operating subsidiary, TMW Systems, Inc. (TMW) of Beachwood, Ohio, a provider of enterprise software to transportation and logistics companies.  TMW’s performance is reported under our Mobile Solutions business segment.

Logicway

On September 6, 2012, we acquired privately-held Logicway of Oldenzaal, Netherlands, a provider of software for automating payroll and expenses with a specific focus on the transportation and logistics industry.  Logicway’s performance is reported under our Mobile Solutions business segment.

WinEstimator

On August 6, 2012, we acquired privately-held WinEstimator, Inc., a provider of construction cost estimating and cost-modeling software.  WinEstimator’s performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

GEOTrac Systems Inc.

On June 8, 2012, we acquired privately-held GEOTrac Systems Inc. of Calgary, Canada, a provider of wireless fleet management and worker safety solutions for the oil and gas industry. GEOTrac Systems Inc.’s performance is reported under our Mobile Solutions business segment.

SketchUp

On June 1, 2012, we acquired SketchUp, a popular 3D modeling platform, and related assets from Google Inc. SketchUp’s performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

Gatewing

On April 5, 2012, we acquired privately-held Gatewing of Gent, Belgium, a provider of lightweight unmanned aerial vehicles for photogrammetry and rapid terrain mapping applications. Gatewing’s performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

Plancal

On January 12, 2012, we acquired privately-held Plancal of Horgen, Switzerland, a 3D CAD/CAE and ERP software provider for the mechanical, electrical, plumbing, eating, ventilation and air conditioning industries in Western Europe. Plancal’s performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

StruCad

On January 11, 2012, we acquired the StruCad and StruEngineer business from AceCad Software based in Derby, UK to expand our construction solutions. The addition of the software products is expected to extend Tekla’s building information modeling solutions for structural steel contractors to automate project estimating and management, modeling and detailing. StruCad’s performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

Patents, Licenses and Intellectual Property

We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We hold approximately 1000 U.S. issued and enforceable patents and approximately 300 non-U.S. patents, the majority of which cover GNSS technology and other applications such as optical and laser technology. We also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of Trimble and its products and services globally. We prefer to own the intellectual property used in our products, either directly or through subsidiaries. From time to time we license technology from third parties.

Sales and Marketing









We tailor the distribution channel to the needs of our products and regional markets through a number of sales channel solutions around the world. We sell our products worldwide primarily through dealers, distributors, and authorized representatives, occasionally granting exclusive rights to market certain products within specific countries. This channel is supported and supplemented (where third party distribution is not available) by our regional sales offices throughout the world. We also utilize distribution alliances, OEM relationships, and joint ventures with other companies as a means to serve selected markets, as well as direct sales to end users.

During fiscal 2012, sales to customers in the United States represented 47%, Europe represented 22%, Asia Pacific represented 16%, and other regions represented 15% of our total revenue.  During fiscal 2011, sales to customers in the United States represented 45%, Europe represented 24%, Asia Pacific represented 15%, and other regions represented 16% of our total revenue. During fiscal 2010, sales to customers in the United States represented 46%, Europe represented 22%, Asia Pacific represented 18%, and other regions represented 14% of our total revenue.

Seasonality of Business

* Our individual segment revenue may be affected by seasonal buying patterns. Historically, the second fiscal quarter has been the strongest quarter for the Company driven by the construction buying season. However, as a result of several acquisitions made in the last two years, we may experience less seasonality in the future.

Backlog

In most of our markets, the time between order placement and shipment is short. Orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. In general, customers may cancel or reschedule orders without penalty. For these reasons, we do not believe that orders are an accurate measure of backlog and, therefore, we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future revenue or material to understanding our business.

Manufacturing

Manufacturing of many of our GNSS products is subcontracted to Flextronics International Limited in Mexico. We utilize Flextronics for Survey, Field Solutions and Mobile Solutions products. We utilize Benchmark Electronics Inc. in China for our Component Technologies products. We utilize Jabil Mexico for our Construction and Mobile Solutions products.  Our contract manufacturing partners are responsible for significant material procurement, assembly and testing. We continue to manage product design through pilot production for the subcontracted products, and we are directly involved in qualifying suppliers and key components used in all our products. Our current contract with Flextronics continues in effect until either party gives the other ninety days written notice.

We manufacture our laser and optics-based products, as well as some of our GNSS products,  at our plants in Dayton, Ohio; Danderyd, Sweden and Shanghai, China. Some of these products or portions of these products are also subcontracted to third parties for assembly.

Our design manufacturing and distribution sites in Dayton, Ohio; Sunnyvale, California; Danderyd, Sweden; Eersel, Netherlands and Shanghai, China are registered to ISO9001:2000, covering the design, production, distribution, and servicing of all our products.

Research and Development

We believe that our competitive position is maintained through the development and introduction of new products that incorporate improved features, better performance, smaller size and weight, lower cost, or some combination of these factors. We invest substantially in the development of new products. We also make significant investment in the positioning, communication and information technologies that underlie our products and will likely provide competitive advantages.

Our research and development expenditures, net of reimbursed amounts were$256.5 millionfor fiscal 2012, $197.0 million for fiscal 2011, and $150.1 million for fiscal 2010.

* We expect to continue investing in research and development with the goal of maintaining or improving our competitive position, as well as the goal of entering new markets.

Employees

At the end of fiscal 2012, we employed 6,561 employees, including 17% in manufacturing, 32% in engineering, 33% in sales and marketing, and 18% in general and administrative positions. Approximately 51% of employees are in locations outside the United States.









Some employees in Sweden are represented by unions.  Some employees in Germany and France are represented by works councils. We also employ temporary and contract personnel that are not included in the above headcount numbers. We have not experienced work stoppages or similar labor actions.

Available Information

The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on the Company’s web site throughwww.trimble.com/investors.html, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained on our web site is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing or telephoning us at our principal executive offices at the following address or telephone number:

Trimble Navigation Limited

935 Stewart Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94085

Attention: Investor Relations Telephone: 408-481-8000

Executive Officers

The names, ages and positions of the Company’s executive officers as of February 21, 2013 are as follows:



NameAgePositionSteven W. Berglund61President and Chief Executive OfficerRajat Bahri48Chief Financial OfficerBryn A. Fosburgh50Vice PresidentChristopher W. Gibson51Vice PresidentMark A. Harrington57Vice PresidentJürgen D. Kliem55Vice PresidentJames A. Kirkland53Vice President and General CounselJulie A. Shepard55Vice President, FinanceJames A. Veneziano51Vice President

Steven W. Berglund—Steven Berglund has served as president and chief executive officer of Trimble since March 1999. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Berglund was president of Spectra Precision, a group within Spectra Physics AB. Mr. Berglund’s business experience includes a variety of senior leadership positions with Spectra Physics, and manufacturing and planning roles at Varian Associates.  Hebegan his career as a process engineer at Eastman Kodak. He attended the University of Oslo and the University of Minnesota where he received a B.S. in chemical engineering. Mr. Berglund received his M.B.A. from the University of Rochester. Mr. Berglund is the current chair of the board of directors of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group and a member of the board of trustees of World Educational Services.  He is also a member of the construction sector board of the Association of Equipment Manufacturers.

Rajat Bahri—Rajat Bahri joined Trimble as chief financial officer in January 2005. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Bahri’s business experience includes 15 years within the financial organization of Kraft Foods, Inc. and General Foods Corporation, including service as the chief financial officer for Kraft Canada, Inc., chief financial officer of Kraft Pizza Company, and operations controller for Kraft Jacobs Suchard Europe. Mr. Bahri received a Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Delhi in 1985 and an M.B.A. from Duke University in 1987. In 2005, he was elected to the board of STEC, Inc., a memory storage manufacturer.

Bryn A. Fosburgh—Mr.Fosburgh currently serves as vice president for Trimble's heavy and highway construction business, and Trimble's Buildings group, which includes the following markets: architecture, owner, structures, MEP, and general contractor markets. From 2009 to 2010, Mr. Fosburgh served as vice president for Trimble's Construction Division, with responsibility for a number of corporate functions and geographical regions. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Fosburgh was vice president for Trimble's Construction and Agriculture Divisions, and from 2005 to 2007, Mr. Fosburgh served as vice president and general manager of Trimble's Engineering and Construction Division. Mr. Fosburgh joined Trimble in 1994 and has held numerous roles, including vice president and general manager for Trimble's geomatics and engineering division, and division vice president of survey and infrastructure. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Fosburgh was a civil engineer and also held various positions for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Defense Mapping Agency. Mr. Fosburgh received a B.S. in geology from the University of Wisconsin in Green Bay in 1985 and an M.S. in civil engineering from Purdue University in 1989.









Christopher W. Gibson—Christopher W. Gibson currently serves as vice president for Trimble's Survey, Geospatial, Geographic Information System (GIS), Infrastructure, Rail, Land Administration and Environmental Solutions businesses.  Mr. Gibson joined Trimble in 1998 as European finance and operations director. In 2009, he was appointed to serve as vice president responsible for Trimble’s Survey Division, and in December 2010, those responsibilities were expanded to include oversight of geographic regions and divisions, including Building Construction, Construction Tools, and the Hilti joint venture. From 2008 to 2009, Mr. Gibson served as the general manager for the Survey Division, and from 2005 to 2008, he was general manager for the Global Services Division. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Gibson’s business experience includes a number of financial management roles with Tandem Computers, and financial analyst roles with Unilever subsidiaries. Mr. Gibson received a BA in Business Studies in 1985 from Thames Polytechnic, now the University of Greenwich, and was admitted as a Fellow to the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants in 1994.

Mark A. Harrington—Mark Harrington has served as a vice president of Trimble since 2004, and currently serves as vice president for Trimble's Agriculture, Forestry, Water and Energy Utilities and Public Safety Divisions, with responsibility for several corporate functions and geographical regions. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Harrington served as vice president for Trimble's Survey and Mapping and GIS Divisions, and from 2004 to 2007, he served as vice president of strategy and business development. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Harrington served as vice president of finance at Finisar Corporation, chief financial officer for Cielo Communications, Inc., and Vixel Corporation, vice president of finance for Spectra-Physics Lasers, Inc. and vice president of finance for Spectra-Physics Analytical, Inc. Mr. Harrington began his career at Varian Associates, Inc. Mr. Harrington received his B.S. in Business Administration from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.

Jürgen D. Kliem—Jürgen Kliem currently serves as vice president for several businesses within the Advanced Devices segment, and is also responsible for various corporate functions, including key accounts and government funded projects. Mr. Kliem previously served as vice president of strategy and business development from 2008 until 2012. From 2002 to 2008, Mr. Kliem served as general manager of Trimble's Survey Division, and prior to that, Mr. Kliem was responsible for Trimble's Engineering and Construction Division in Europe. Mr. Kliem held various leadership roles at Spectra Precision, which was acquired by Trimble, and at Geotronics, a company acquired by Spectra Precision. Before joining Geotronics, Mr. Kliem worked in a privately-held surveying firm addressing cadastral, construction, plant and engineering projects. Mr. Kliem received a Diplom Ingenieur degree from the University of Essen, Germany in 1982.

James A. Kirkland—James A. Kirkland joined Trimble as vice president and general counsel in July 2008. Prior to joining Trimble, he worked for SpinVox Ltd. from October 2007 to January 2008 as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development. From October 2003 to September 2007, he served as general counsel and executive vice president, strategic development at Covad Communications. Mr. Kirkland also served as senior vice president of spectrum development and general counsel at Clearwire Technologies, Inc. Mr. Kirkland began his career in 1984 as an associate at Mintz Levin and in 1992 he was promoted to partner. Mr. Kirkland received his BA from Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. in 1981 and his J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1984.

Julie A. Shepard—Julie Shepard joined Trimble in December of 2006 as vice president of finance, and was appointed principal accounting officer in May 2007. Prior to joining Trimble, Ms. Shepard served as vice president of finance and corporate controller at Quantum Corporation, from 2005 to 2006, and prior to that, from 2004 to 2005, as an independent consultant to Quantum Corporation. Ms. Shepard brings with her over 20 years of experience in a broad range of finance roles, including vice president of finance at Nishan Systems. Ms. Shepard began her career at Price Waterhouse and is a Certified Public Accountant. She received a B.S in Accounting from California State University.

James A. Veneziano—James A. Veneziano has served as a vice president of Trimble since 2009 and is currently responsible for Trimble's Mobile Solutions, Data Services and Hosting, Global Services, portions of the Advanced Devices segment and Strategy and Business Development. Mr. Veneziano joined Trimble in 1990 as a manufacturing engineer in the Company's Operations group. In 1993, he was appointed director of Operations. In 1998, Mr. Veneziano was appointed director of marketing for Agriculture and Mapping and GIS. From 2000 to 2005, Mr. Veneziano served as the general manager of Trimble's Agriculture business. From 2005 to 2009, he was the general manager of Trimble's Construction business. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Veneziano worked for Hewlett-Packard in a variety of manufacturing positions including development engineer and engineering supervisor as well as new product introduction manager. He received a B.S. in electrical engineering from Colorado State University in Fort Collins in 1984.





