Item1.Business



Trimble
Navigation Limited, a California corporation (“Trimble” or “the Company” or “we”
or “our” or “us”), provides advanced positioning product solutions, typically to
commercial and government users.  The principal application areas
include surveying, agriculture, construction, asset management, mapping and
mobile resource management. Our products provide benefits that can include lower
operational costs, higher productivity, improved quality, and compliance.
Product examples include agricultural and construction equipment, guidance
systems, surveying instruments, systems that track fleets of vehicles, and data
collection systems that enable the management of large amounts of geo-referenced
information. In addition, we also manufacture components for in-vehicle
navigation and telematics systems, and timing modules used in the
synchronization of wireless networks.



Our
products often combine knowledge of location or position with a wireless link to
provide a solution for a specific application.  Position is provided
through a number of technologies including the Global Positioning System, or
GPS, other Global Navigation Satellite Systems, or GNSS and their augmentation
systems, and systems that use laser or optical technologies to establish
position.  Wireless communication techniques include both public
networks, such as cellular, and private networks, such as business band radio.
Some of our products are augmented by our software; this includes embedded
firmware that enables the positioning solution and application software that
allows the customer to make use of the positioning information.



We design
and market our own products. Our manufacturing strategy includes a combination
of in-house assembly and third party subcontractors. Our global operations
include major development, manufacturing, or logistics operations in the United
States, Sweden, Germany, New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, the
Netherlands, China, and India. Products are sold through dealers,
representatives, joint ventures, and other channels throughout the world. These
channels are supported by our sales offices located in 19
countries.



We began
operations in 1978 and incorporated in California in 1981. Our common stock has
been publicly traded on NASDAQ since 1990 under the symbol TRMB.



On
January 17, 2007, our board of directors approved a 2-for-1 split of all
outstanding shares of the Company’s Common Stock, payable February 22, 2007 to
stockholders of record on February 8, 2007. All shares and per share information
presented have been adjusted to reflect the stock split on a retroactive basis
for all periods presented.



Technology
Overview



A
significant portion of our revenue is derived from applying Global Navigation
Satellite System, or GNSS, technology to terrestrial
applications.  The GNSS includes the network of 24 orbiting U.S.
Global Positioning System, or GPS, radio navigation satellites and associated
ground control that is funded and maintained by the U.S. Government and is
available worldwide free of direct user fees, and the Russian GLONASS radio
navigation satellite system. Both the European Community and China have
announced plans to establish future operational radio navigation satellite
systems. GNSS positioning is based on a technique that precisely measures
distances from four or more satellites.  The satellites continuously
transmit precisely timed radio signals using extremely accurate atomic
clocks.  A GNSS receiver measures distances from the satellites in
view by determining the travel time of a signal from the satellite to the
receiver, and then uses those distances to compute its position. Under normal
circumstances, a stand-alone GNSS receiver is able to calculate its position at
any point on earth, in the earth's atmosphere, or in lower earth orbit, to
approximately 10 meters, 24 hours a day. Much better accuracies are possible
through a technique called “differential GNSS.” In addition to providing
position, GNSS provides extremely accurate time measurement.



GNSS
accuracy is dependent upon the locations of the receiver and the number of GNSS
satellites that are above the horizon at any given time. Reception of GNSS
signals requires line-of-sight visibility between the satellites and the
receiver, which can be blocked by buildings, hills, and dense foliage. The
receiver must have a line of sight to at least four satellites to determine its
latitude, longitude, and time. The accuracy of GNSS may also be limited by
distortion of GNSS signals from ionospheric and other atmospheric
conditions.



Our GNSS
products are based on proprietary receiver technology. Over time, the advances
in positioning, wireless communications, and information technologies have
enabled us to add more capability to our products and thereby deliver more value
to our users. GPS is being modernized and GLONASS modernization is
planned.  For example, the developments in wireless technology and
deployments of next generation wireless    networks have
enabled less expensive wireless communications.  These developments
provide the efficient transfer of position data to locations away from the
positioning field device, allowing the data to be accessed by more users,
thereby increasing productivity.  This allows us to integrate
visualization and design software into some of our systems, as well as offer
positioning services, all of which make our customers more efficient at what
they do.





Our laser
and optical products either measure distances and angles to provide a position
in three dimensional space or are used as highly accurate laser references from
which a position can be established.  The key elements of these
products are typically a laser, which is generally a commercially available
laser diode, and a complex mechanical assembly.  These elements are
augmented by software algorithms to provide measurements and
application-specific solutions.



Business
Strategy



Our
business strategy is developed around an analysis of several key
elements:



·Attractive markets– We
      focus on underserved markets that offer potential for revenue growth,
      profitability, and market
leadership.



·Innovative solutions that
      provide significant benefits to our customers– We seek to apply
      our technology to applications in which position data is important and
      where we can create unique value by enabling enhanced productivity in the
      field or field to back office.  We look for opportunities in
      which the rate of technological change is high and which have a
      requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into a
      solution.



·Distribution channels to best
      access our markets– We select distribution channels that best
      serve the needs of individual markets. These channels can include
      independent dealers, direct sales, joint ventures, OEM sales, and
      distribution alliances with key partners. We view international expansion
      as an important element of our strategy and continue to develop
      international channels.



Business
Segments and Markets



We are
organized into four reporting segments encompassing our various applications and
product lines: Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions, Mobile Solutions
and Advanced Devices. Our segments are distinguished by the markets they serve.
Each segment consists of businesses which are responsible for product
development, marketing, sales, strategy, and financial performance.



Engineering
and Construction



Products
in the Engineering and Construction segment improve productivity and accuracy
throughout the entire construction process including the initial survey,
planning, design, site preparation, and building phases.  Our products
are intended to both improve the productivity of each phase, as well as
facilitate the entire process by improving information flow from one phase to
the next.



Our
Engineering and Construction product solutions typically integrate a wide range
of positioning technologies including GPS/GNSS, laser, optical, 3D scanning, and
inertial technologies with application software, wireless communications and
services to provide complete solutions.  Our integrated solutions
allow customers to collect, manage, and analyze complex
information.  An example is the Connected Site solutions for
development projects.  The approach consists of mapping and
understanding the workflow of a specific industry segment and then ensuring
there is software and hardware integration between each segment of the workflow,
such as the building of a water supply and treatment plant for a
village.  The work requires mapping and evaluation of water resources,
engineering and design, construction and life cycle management.  The
Connected Site plays an important role at each and every stage.  It
ensures fast, accurate exchange of data and information among field and office
teams, contractors, and management.  Because of its inherent
flexibility and ability to evolve with a project, the Connected Site can deliver
significant contributions to the sustainable infrastructure
development.



To
introduce products in this segment, we have formed a joint venture with
Caterpillar, called VirtualSite Solutions (VSS). VSS develops software for fleet
management and connected worksite solutions.

We sell
and distribute our products in the Engineering and Construction segment
primarily through a global network of independent dealers that are supported by
Trimble personnel.  This channel is supplemented by relationships that
create additional channel breadth including our joint ventures with Caterpillar
and Nikon, as well as private branding arrangements with other
companies.





We also
design and market handheld data collectors and data collection software for
field use by surveyors, contractors, and other professionals. These products are
sold directly through dealers and other survey manufacturers.



Competitors
in this segment are typically companies that provide optical, laser, or GNSS
positioning products. Our principal competitors are Topcon Corporation, and
Leica Geosystems, Inc.  Price points in this segment range from less
than $1,000 for certain laser systems to approximately $100,000 for a
high-precision, three-dimensional, machine control system.



Representative
products sold in this segment include:



Trimble S8 Total Station– Our
S8 Total Station is our most advanced optical instrument designed to deliver
unsurpassed performance for both typical surveying and specialized engineering
applications such as monitoring and tunneling. It features Trimble FineLock™
technology, a smart tracker sensor with a narrow field of view that enables the
Trimble S8 to detect a target without interference from surrounding prisms. Our
S8 combined with our 4D Control software creates a powerful solution for
real-time and post-processed monitoring of permanent structures such as dams,
short-term construction activities, and side slopes in mines.



Trimble R8 GNSS System– Our
R8 GNSS System is a multi-channel, multi-frequency, multi-constellation Global
Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) receiver, antenna, and data-link radio
combined in one compact unit. It features Trimble R-Track™ technology, powered
by the most advanced RTK engine in the industry, supporting all GPS signals,
including GPS Modernization (L2C signal and L5 signals) as well as GLONASS and
the Galileo test signals GIOVE-A and GIOVE-B. This enhanced survey system also
features capabilities to customize, remotely configure, and connect to Trimble
R8 GNSS base and rover receivers from the office, saving additional trips to the
field. Our R8 GNSS combines advanced receiver technology and a proven system
design to provide maximum accuracy and productivity for a variety of surveying
applications.



Trimble VX Spatial Station–
Our VX™Spatial Station
is an advanced spatial imaging system that combines optical, 3D scanning, and
imaging capabilities to measure objects in 3D to produce 2D and 3D deliverables
for spatial imaging projects.  It enables users to blend extremely
accurate ground-based information with airborne data to provide comprehensive
datasets for use in the geospatial information industry. With Trimble VISION™
technology, surveyor productivity is enhanced with the ability to remotely see
and measure on their data controller via live video feed from the instrument and
verify that they have captured all the necessary data before leaving the
jobsite. By capturing metric images with the Trimble VX in the field, surveyors
can continue taking additional measurements back in the office and further
attribute data using the industry standard Trimble RealWorks™
software.



Trimble Access Software– Our
Trimble Access Software is a powerful field and office surveying solution that
expedites data collection, processing, analysis and project information delivery
through streamlined workflows and Internet-enabled collaboration and control
amongst project team members. With Trimble Access software, surveyors have
access to powerful yet familiar tools for typical work such as topographic
surveys, staking, or control as well as various streamlined workflows for
specialized applications, such as road surveying, tunneling, monitoring, and
mining. These specialized applications are designed to simplify a specific type
of project for reduced learning curves and improved efficiencies in the
field.  Our Trimble Access Software brings the field and office teams
closer together by enabling data sharing and collaboration in a secure
environment - surveys can be completed faster with less time spent traveling
back and forth to the office.



GCS Family of Grade Control Systems –Grade control systems meet construction contractors' needs with
productivity-enhancing solutions for earthmoving, site prep, and roadwork. Our
GCS family provides upgrade options that deliver earthmoving contractors the
flexibility to select a system that meets their daily needs today, and later add
on to meet their changing needs. For example, a single control system such as
the GCS300 can provide for low-cost point of entry into grade control, and over
time can be upgraded to the GCS400 dual sensor system or to the full 3D GCS900
Grade Control System.



Trimble Layout Solutions –Trimble Layout solutions such as Trimble MEP and LM80 meet the needs of
general, concrete, mechanical, electrical, and plumbing
contractors.   For example, using the Trimble MEP layout
solution, mechanical, electrical and plumbing contractors can increase
productivity significantly.  Trimble MEP utilizes the Trimble RTS
Series Robotic Total Station, a Trimble Nomad, and our layout solutions provide
precise location of pipe, duct, and cable tray hangers.   We
recently acquired Quickpen, which adds a line of estimating, CAD, fabrication,
and tool & equipment management solutions, such as AutoBid®, DuctDesigner 3D®, PipeDesigner 3D®, and Vulcan is designed to
make building contractors more efficient and productive.





Spectra Precision Laser Portable
Tools –Our Spectra Precision®Laser family includes a
broad range of laser based tools for the interior, drywall and ceilings, HVAC,
and mechanical contractor. Designed to replace traditional methods of
measurement and leveling for a wide range of interior construction applications,
our laser tools are easy to learn and use. Our Spectra Precision Laser product
portfolio includes rotating lasers for horizontal leveling and vertical
alignment, as well as laser pointers and a laser based distance measuring
device. They are available through independent and national construction supply
houses both in the U.S. and in Europe.



Proliance Software–
Proliance® Software allows infrastructure-intensive organizations to optimize
the Plan-Build-Operate project lifecycle for complex capital projects,
construction and real estate programs, and extensive facility portfolios. Our
Proliance Software was designed for large building owner/operators, real estate
developers, and engineering-driven organizations managing $250 million or more
annually in new project construction or facility renovations.



GeoSpatial Solutions –Our
GeoSpatial Solutions family enables mobile mapping companies to capture
georeferenced data, extract features and attributes, and analyze conditions and
change, thereby generating information to better manage assets and
operations.  Aerial LIDAR / Imaging Systems and vehicle-based asset
inventory systems, combined with powerful photogrammetry software, generate high
accuracy as-built drawings for the transportation, utilities, energy
transmission, and distribution industries.



Trimble Construction Manager
Software– Trimble Construction Manager software enables the management
of construction assets from one centralized software interface.  The
software works with one of several hardware locator devices to help track and
manage the use of assets on and off site, leading to improved equipment
productivity, fuel consumption, and maintenance
monitoring.  VirtualSite Solutions, a joint venture between
Caterpillar and Trimble, was formed in October 2008 to develop the next
generation of software for fleet management and connected worksite solutions to
be sold through the SITECH dealer distribution channel.



Field
Solutions



Our Field
Solutions segment addresses the agriculture and geographic information system
(GIS) markets.



Our
agriculture products consist of guidance and positioning systems, automated
application systems, and information management solutions.  We provide
manual and automated navigation guidance for tractors and other farm equipment
used in spraying, planting, cultivation, and harvesting applications. The
benefits to the farmer include faster machine operation, higher yields, and
lower consumption of chemicals than conventional equipment. We also provide
positioning solutions for leveling agricultural fields in irrigation
applications and aligning drainage systems to better manage water flow in
fields.  In addition, we provide solutions to automate applications of
pesticide and seeding.  Our information management products offer
solutions for data management, field to office data transfer, and record
keeping.



We use
multiple distribution channels to access the agricultural market, including
independent dealers and partners such as CNH Global. Competitors in this market
are either vertically integrated implement companies such as John Deere, or
agricultural instrumentation suppliers such as Raven, Hemisphere GPS, and
Novariant.



Our GIS
product line is centered on handheld data collectors that gather information in
the field to be incorporated into GIS databases. Our handheld unit enables this
data to be collected and automatically stored while confirming the location of
the asset. By utilizing a combination of wireless technologies this information
can be communicated from the field worker to the back-office GIS and also gives
the field worker the ability to download information from the database. This
capability provides significant advantages to users including improved
productivity, accuracy, and access to information in the field.



Distribution
for GIS products is primarily through a network of independent dealers and
business partners, supported by Trimble personnel. Primary markets for our GIS
products and solutions include both governmental and commercial users. Users are
most often municipal governments and natural resource
agencies.  Commercial users include utility companies. Competitors in
this market are typically survey instrument companies utilizing GPS technology
such as Topcon and Thales.



Approximate
product price points in this segment range from $1,000 for a GIS handheld unit
to $35,000 for a fully automated, farm equipment control system.



Representative
products sold in this segment include:



AgGPS EZ-Guide 500– OurAgGPS@ EZ-Guide@ 500 is a
lightbar guidance system with a color LCD display, data logging functions, and
multiple accuracy options. Lightbar systems provide GPS-based guidance for
vehicle operators to steer tractors, sprayers, fertilizer applicators, air
seeders, and large tillage tools that require consistent pass-to-pass accuracy
to help save fuel, increase efficiency, and reduce input costs for agricultural
operations.





AgGPS EZ-Boom 2010–OurAgGPS EZ-Boom®2010
automated application control system helps growers cut input costs and reduce
operator fatigue by providing precise automatic control of field spraying
applications.  It works with ourAgGPS EZ-Guide 500 lightbar
guidance system,AgGPS
FmX®™
integrated display,AgGPS EZ-Steer®assisted
steering system, or theAgGPS Autopilot™ automated
steering system.



AgGPS AutopilotSystem– Our GPS-enabled,
agricultural navigation system connects to a tractor’s steering system and
automatically steers the tractor along a precise path to within three
centimeters or less.  This enables both higher machine productivity
and more precise application of seed and chemicals, thereby reducing costs to
the farmer.



AgGPS EZ-SteerSystem– Our value-added
assisted steering system, when combined with any of our guidance display
systems, automatically steers agricultural vehicles along a path within 20
centimeters or less.  This system installs in less than thirty minutes
and is designed to reduce gaps and overlaps in spraying, fertilizing, and other
field applications, as well as reduce operator fatigue.



Trimble Connected Farm–Our end-to-end
solution combines in-cab precision control, field record-keeping, and seamless
field to office information management.



GreenSeeker and WeedSeeker
Sensors–Our crop sensing technology reduces farmers’ costs and environmental
impact by controlling the application of nitrogen, herbicide, and other crop
inputs for optimum plant growth.



JunoSeries– Our Juno family
includes compact and cost-effective GPS handhelds designed to equip an entire
workforce for data collection and fieldwork. The handhelds have a
high-sensitivity GPS receiver, Bluetooth and Wireless LAN technology, a built-in
3 Megapixel digital camera, a MicroSD/SDHC storage slot, and an optional 3.5G
broadband cellular modem for wireless data communications.



GeoExplorer2008Series– Our GeoExplorer
family combines a GPS receiver in a rugged handheld unit running industry
standard Microsoft Windows Mobile version 6.0, making it easy to collect and
maintain data about objects in the field. The GeoExplorer®series features three models
ranging in accuracy from a decimeter to 1-3 meters, thereby allowing the user to
select the system most appropriate for their data collection and maintenance
needs.



Fieldport Software –Our
Fieldport Software focuses on automating field service processes, operational
efficiency and profitability for water and wastewater utility
customers.



UtilityCenter Software–Our UtilityCenter Software
is a GIS-based enterprise suite of modules oriented towards the electric and gas
utilities market. Modules include Outage Management (OMS), Mobile Asset
Management, Data Collection, Staking, Network Tracing & Isolation and
Field-based Editing.



Mobile
Solutions



Our
Mobile Solutions segment provides both hardware and software applications for
managing mobile work, mobile workers, and mobile assets. The software is
provided in both a client server model or web-based.  Our software is
provided through our hosted platform for a monthly subscription service fee or
as a perpetual license with annual maintenance and support fees.



Our
vehicle solutions typically include an onboard proprietary hardware device
consisting of a GPS receiver, business logic, sensor interface, and a wireless
modem. Our solution usually includes the communication service from/to the
vehicle to our data center and access over the internet to the application
software.



Our
mobile worker solutions include a rugged handset device and software designed to
automate service technician work in the field at the point of customer
contact.   The mobile worker handset solutions also synchronize
to a client server at the back office for integration with other
mission-critical business applications.



Our
scheduling and dispatch solution is an enterprise software program to optimize
scheduling and routing of field service technicians. For dynamic capacity
management, our capacity planner, capacity controller, and intelligent appointer
modules round out this innovative service delivery automation
technology.





One
element of our market strategy targets opportunities in specific vertical
markets where we believe we can provide a unique value to the end-user by
tailoring our solutions for a particular industry.  Sample markets
include telecommunications, utilities field service, construction supply, direct
store delivery, forestry, and public safety.  For example, our
construction supply ready mix concrete solution combines a suite of sensors with
our in-vehicle wireless platform providing fleets with updated vehicle status
that requires no driver interaction – referred to as “auto-status.”



We also
sell our vehicle solutions using a horizontal market strategy that focuses on
providing turnkey solutions to a broad range of service fleets that span a large
number of market segments. Here, we leverage our capabilities without the same
level of customization. These solutions are sold to the general service fleets
as well as transportation and distribution fleets both on a direct basis and
through dealer channels.



Our
enterprise strategy focuses on sales to large enterprise accounts with more than
1,000 vehicles or routes. Here, in addition to a Trimble-hosted solution, we can
also integrate our service directly into the customer’s IT infrastructure,
giving them improved control of their information. In this market, we sell
directly to end-users. Sales cycles tend to be long due to field trials followed
by an extensive decision-making process.



Approximate
prices for hardware fall in the range of $400 to $3,000, while the monthly
subscription service fees range from approximately $25 to approximately $55 per
month per unit, depending on the customer service level.



Representative
products sold in this segment include:



Fleet Productivity –Our fleet
productivity solution offerings are comprised of the GeoManager and TrimView™
mobile platforms. The GeoManager system provides different levels of service
that run from snapshots of fleet activity to real-time fleet dispatch capability
via access to the web-based platform through a secure internet connection. The
GeoManager system includes truck communication service and computer backbone
support of the service. TrimView is sold to fleets where system integration into
back office applications is required for more robust information
flow.



Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG) –This software solution operates in the Microsoft CE/Pocket or WinMobile
PC environment and addresses the pre-sales, delivery, route sales, and full
service vending functions performed by mobile workers.  Customers
within the CPG market purchase a combination of both license software and
handheld PCs.  The software handles all communications from/to the
mobile computer as well as from/to the host and any other ERP or decision
support systems.



Field Service–Our handset-based mobile
solution enables technicians to maintain and repair residential and commercial
appliances, office equipment, medical equipment, refrigeration equipment,
fountain, and manufacturing equipment, and manage a variety of service functions
including wireless dispatching of service calls, real-time messaging, spare
parts management, and work order and workflow management.  Trimble
Field Service customers have benefited from increased service calls per day, an
increase in first call resolution, and reduction in administrative workload to
name a few results.



Public Safety –We provide a
suite of solutions for the public safety sector including our PocketCitation™
system which is an electronic ticketing system that enables law enforcement
officers to issue traffic citations utilizing a mobile handheld device. This
system scans the traffic offender’s driver’s license and automatically populates
the appropriate information into the citation. We provide a variation of this
solution which enables law enforcement officers to complete electronic traffic
citations within 30 seconds. Within this sector, we also provide desktop
software which enables accident investigators and other public safety
professionals to reconstruct and simulate vehicle accidents.



Taskforce –The Taskforce
software solution provides scheduling and dispatch solutions for field service
technicians by synchronizing the right human and physical resources required to
optimize a field service resource network.  The system manages
significant numbers of dynamic scheduling resources in an unpredictable field
service environment to increase productivity, field force utilization, and
control-to-field employee ratios.



Blue Ox – Forestry Fleet Management–The Blue Ox
system optimizes the efficiency with which wood is transported from the forest
to the mills.  It utilizes real time information that is input into a
Trimble rugged handheld PC in the woods to communicate with Trimble tablet PCs
in each truck to identify available loads of wood.  From this
information, the system then selects the most optimal delivery pattern, and
routes the trucks appropriately.  In sum, a landowner is able to move
more wood with fewer trucks, all the while providing valuable operating
information through a full suite of reports.  This solution creates an
immediate savings for the landowner.





Advanced
Devices



Advanced
Devices includes the product lines from our Component Technologies, Applanix,
Trimble Outdoors, and Military and Advanced Systems (MAS) businesses. With the
exception of Trimble Outdoors and Applanix these businesses share several common
characteristics:  they are hardware centric, generally market to
original equipment manufacturers (OEM), system integrators or service providers,
and have products that can be utilized in a number of different end-user markets
and applications. The various operations that comprise this segment were
aggregated on the basis that no single operation accounted for more than 10% of
our total revenue, operating income or assets.



Within
Component Technologies, we supply GPS modules, licensing and complementary
technologies, and GPS-integrated sub-system solutions for applications requiring
precise position, time or frequency.  Component Technologies serves a
broad range of vertical markets including telecommunications, automotive
electronics, and commercial electronics.  Sales are made directly to
OEMs, system integrators, value-added resellers, and service providers who
incorporate our components into a complete system-level solution.



Component
Technologies has developed GPS technologies which it makes available for
license. These technologies can run on certain digital signal processors (DSP)
or microprocessors, removing the need for dedicated GPS baseband signal
processor chips.  We have a cooperative licensing deal with Nokia for
our Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) patents related to designated
wireless products and services involving location technologies, such as GPS,
assisted GPS, or Galileo. We also have a licensing agreement with Marvell
Semiconductors for our full GPS Digital Signal Processor software as well as
tools for development support and testing.



Our MAS
business supplies GPS receivers and embedded modules that use the military’s GPS
advanced capabilities. The modules are principally used in aircraft navigation
and timing applications. Military products are sold directly to either the U.S.
Government or defense contractors. Sales are also made to authorized foreign end
users. Competitors in this market include Rockwell Collins, L3, and
Raytheon.



Our
Trimble Outdoors business utilizes GPS-enabled cell phones to provide
information for outdoor recreational activities. Some of the recreational
activities include hiking, biking, backpacking, boating, and water sports.
Consumers purchase the Trimble Outdoors product through our wireless operator
partners which include Sprint-Nextel, SouthernLINC Wireless, and Boost
Mobile.



Our
Applanix business is a leading provider of advanced products and enabling
solutions that maximize productivity through mobile mapping and positioning to
professional markets worldwide. Applanix develops, manufactures, sells, and
supports high-value, precision products that combine GPS with inertial sensors
for accurate measurement of position and attitude, flight management systems,
and scalable mobile mapping solutions used in airborne, land, and marine
applications. Sales are made by our direct sales force to end users, systems
integrators, and OEMs, and through regional agents. Competitors include Leica,
IGI, and Novatel.



Representative
products sold in this segment include:



GPS Receiver Modules– The
Lassen®, Copernicus® , CondorTM, and
PandaTMfamilies of GPS modules are full-function GPS modules in a variety of form
factors, some smaller than your fingertip.



TM3000Asset Tracking Device –Our
TM3000product
is a flexible, open platform that enables a broad range of applications such as:
fleet management, mobile asset tracking and recovery, and driver monitoring and
assistance.  This device integrates wireless communications, a
positioning function, and an application engine in a package designed to improve
the profits for service-focused businesses.



Thunderbolt GPS Disciplined Clock– Our Thunderbolt® clock is a fifth-generation product from our GPS
Timing and Synchronization division, which outputs precision time and
frequency.  It also serves as the architectural basis for GPS
disciplined clocks sold to manufacturers of CDMA and WiMax
infrastructure.



Applanix POS/AVSystem– Our integrated
GPS/inertial system for airborne surveying measures aircraft position to an
accuracy of a few centimeters and aircraft attitude (angular orientation) to an
accuracy of 30 arc seconds or better. This system is typically interfaced to
large format cameras and scanning lasers for producing geo-referenced
topographic maps of the terrain.



Applanix DSS Digital Sensor System– Our digital airborne imaging solution produces high-resolution
orthophoto map products.  Certified by the USGS, the system consists
of a mapping grade digital camera that is tightly integrated with a
GNSS/Inertial system, flight management system (FMS), and processing software
for automatic geo-referencing of each pixel. Our DSS can be used stand-alone or
integrated with other airborne mapping sensors. Our DSS has been used by
organizations worldwide in a variety of market segments that include ortho
mapping, utility and transportation corridor mapping, and rapid response
applications.





Force 524D Module– This dual frequency,
embedded GPS module is used in a variety of military airborne
applications.



Trimble Outdoors Service– Our trip planning and
navigation software works with GPS-enabled cell phones and conventional GPS
receivers. This software enables consumers to research specific trips on-line as
part of trip pre-planning. In addition, users are able to share outdoor and
off-road experiences on-line with their friends and family.



Acquisitions
and Joint Ventures



Our
growth strategy is centered on developing and marketing innovative and complete
value-added solutions to our existing customers, while also marketing them to
new customers and geographic regions. In some cases, this has led to partnering
with or acquiring companies that bring technologies, products or distribution
capabilities that will allow us to establish a market beachhead, penetrate a
market more effectively, or develop solutions more quickly than if we had done
so solely through internal development. Since 1999, this has led us to form
five joint ventures and acquire forty three companies through the end of
fiscal 2009.  Most of these acquisitions have been small, both in
dollar terms and in number of people added to the Trimble employee
base.  The following companies and joint ventures were acquired or
formed during fiscal 2009 and are combined in the results of operations since
the date of acquisition orformation:



Beijing
Kegong Trimble Navigation Technology



On
October 15, 2009, Beijing Kegong Trimble Navigation Technology, a joint venture
formed by the China Aerospace Science & Industry Academy of Information
Technology (CASIC-IT) and us, began operations. We and CASIC-IT both maintain a
50% ownership. Beijing Kegong Trimble Navigation Technology combines the
commercial expertise, knowledge and technologies of both CASIC-IT and Trimble.
The joint venture will develop, manufacture, and distribute Global Navigation
Satellite System (GNSS) receivers and systems based on the Chinese Compass
satellite system.



Farm
Works



On July
16, 2009, we acquired the assets of privately-held CTN Data Service, LLC,
creator of Farm Works software, located in Hamilton, Indiana. Farm Works
provides integrated office and mobile software solutions for both the farmer and
agriculture service professional. Farm Works’ performance is reported under our
Field Solutions business segment.



Accutest



On June
5, 2009, we acquired Accutest Engineering Solutions Ltd, based in Derbyshire,
UK. Accutest is a leading provider of vehicle diagnostics and telematics
technologies for the automotive industry. Accutest’s performance is reported
under our Mobile Solutions business segment.



NTech



On June
4, 2009, we acquired privately-held NTech Industries, based in Ukiah, Calif.
NTech is a leading provider of crop-sensing technology that allows farmers to
reduce costs and environmental impact by controlling the application of
nitrogen, herbicide, and other crop inputs.  NTech’s performance is
reported under our Field Solutions business segment.



QuickPen



On March
12, 2009, we acquired privately-held QuickPen International based in Englewood,
Colorado. QuickPen is a leading provider of Building Information Modeling (BIM)
software for the heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), mechanical
construction, and plumbing industries. QuickPen’s performance is reported under
our Engineering and Construction business segment.



Patents,
Licenses and Intellectual Property



We hold
approximately 750 U.S. issued and enforceable patents and approximately 140
non-U.S. patents, the majority of which cover GPS technology and other
applications such as optical and laser technology.





We prefer
to own the intellectual property used in our products, either directly or
through subsidiaries. From time to time we license technology from third
parties.



There are
approximately 379 trademarks registered to Trimble and its subsidiaries
including "Trimble," the globe triangle design, SITECH, and Spectra Precision,
among others that are registered in the United States and other countries.
Additional trademarks are pending registration.



Sales
and Marketing



We tailor
the distribution channel to the needs of our products and regional markets
through a number of sales channel solutions around the world. We sell our
products worldwide primarily through dealers, distributors, and authorized
representatives, occasionally granting exclusive rights to market certain
products within specific countries. This channel is supported and supplemented
(where third party distribution is not available) by our regional sales offices
throughout the world. We also utilize distribution alliances, OEM relationships,
and joint ventures with other companies as a means to serve selected
markets.



During
fiscal 2009, sales to customers in the United States represented 50%, Europe
represented 23%, Asia Pacific represented 17%, and other regions represented 10%
of our total revenue. During fiscal 2008, sales to customers in the United
States represented 49%, Europe represented 25%, Asia Pacific represented 14%,
and other regions represented 12% of our total revenue. During fiscal 2007,
sales to customers in the United States represented 50%, Europe represented 27%,
Asia Pacific represented 12%, and other regions represented 11% of our total
revenue.



Warranty



The
warranty periods for our products are generally between 90 days and three years.
Selected military programs may require extended warranty periods up to 5.5 years
and certain Nikon products have a five-year warranty period. We support our GPS
products through a circuit board replacement program from locations in the
United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, and the United States. The repair and
calibration of our non-GPS products are available from company-owned or
authorized facilities. We reimburse dealers and distributors for all authorized
warranty repairs they perform.



While we
engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively
monitoring and evaluating the quality of component suppliers, our warranty
obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage, and service
delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product
failure rates, material usage, or service delivery costs differ from the
estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty accrual and related costs may be
required.



Seasonality
of Business



* Our
individual segment revenue may be affected by seasonal buying patterns.
Typically, the second fiscal quarter has been the strongest quarter for the
Company driven by the construction buying season. However during the recent
past, this pattern has been disrupted by the global economic
crisis.



Backlog



In most
of our markets, the time between order placement and shipment is
short.  Orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed
basis.  In general, customers may cancel or reschedule orders without
penalty.  For these reasons, we do not believe that orders are an
accurate measure of backlog and, therefore, we believe that backlog is not a
meaningful indicator of future revenue or material to understanding our
business.



Manufacturing



Manufacturing
of many of our GNSSproducts is subcontracted
to Flextronics International Limited in Mexico. We utilize Flextronics for most
of Survey, Field Solutions, and Mobile Solutions products. We also utilize
Benchmark Electronics Inc. in China and Mexico for our Component
Technologiesproducts
and many of our Construction products. Flextronics is responsible for
substantially all material procurement, assembly, and testing. We continue to
manage product design through pilot production for the subcontracted products,
and we are directly involved in qualifying suppliers and key components used in
all our products. Our current contract with Flextronics continues in effect
until either party gives the other ninety days written notice.





We
manufacture GPS, laser, and optics-based products at our plants in Dayton, Ohio;
Danderyd, Sweden; and Shanghai, China. Some of these products or portions of
these products are also subcontracted to third parties for
assembly.



Our
design and manufacturing sites in Dayton, Ohio; Sunnyvale, California; Danderyd,
Sweden; and Kaiserslautern, Germany are registered to ISO9001:2000, covering the
design, production, distribution, and servicing of all our
products.



Research
and Development



We
believe that our competitive position is maintained through the development and
introduction of new products that incorporate improved features, better
performance, smaller size and weight, lower cost, or some combination of these
factors. We invest substantially in the development of new products. We also
make significant investment in the positioning, communication, and information
technologies that underlie our products and will likely provide competitive
advantages.



Our
research and development expenditures, net of reimbursed amounts were $136.6
million for fiscal 2009, $148.3 million for fiscal 2008, and 131.5 million for
fiscal 2007.



* We
expect to continue investing in research and development with the goal of
maintaining or improving our competitive position, as well as the goal of
entering new markets.



Employees



As of
January 1, 2010, we employed 3,794 employees, including 20% in manufacturing,
28% in engineering, 39% in sales and marketing, and 13% in general and
administrative positions. Approximately 44% of employees are in locations
outside the United States.



Our
employees are not represented by unions except for those in
Sweden.  Some employees in Germany are represented by works councils.
We also employ temporary and contract personnel that are not included in the
above headcount numbers. We have not experienced work stoppages or similar labor
actions.



Available
Information



The
Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of
charge on the Company’s web site throughwww.trimble.com/investors.html, as
soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with
or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained on
our web site is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K.



In
addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no
cost by writing or telephoning us at our principal executive offices at the
following address or telephone number:



Trimble
Navigation Limited



Stewart Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94085



Attention:
Investor Relations   Telephone: 408-481-8000



Executive
Officers



The
names, ages, and positions of the Company's executive officers as of February
21, 2010 are as follows:



NameAgePositionSteven
      W. Berglund58President
      and Chief Executive OfficerRajat
      Bahri45Chief
      Financial OfficerRick
      Beyer52Vice
      PresidentBryn
      A. Fosburgh47Vice
      PresidentChristopher
      W. Gibson49Vice
      PresidentMark
      A. Harrington54Vice
      PresidentJürgen
      Kliem52Vice
      PresidentJames
      A. Kirkland50Vice
      President and General CounselJulie
      Shepard52Vice
      President, FinanceDennis
      L. Workman65Vice
      President and Chief Technical
Officer





Steven W.
Berglund– Steven Berglund has served as president and chief executive
officer of Trimble since March 1999.  Prior to joining Trimble, Mr.
Berglund was president of Spectra Precision, a group within Spectra Physics
AB.  Mr. Berglund’s business experience includes a variety of senior
leadership positions with Spectra Physics, manufacturing and planning roles at
Varian Associates, and began his career as a process engineer at Eastman Kodak.
He attended the University of Oslo and the University of Minnesota where he
received a B.S. in chemical engineering.  Mr. Berglund received his
M.B.A. from the University of Rochester.  In December 2007, Mr.
Berglund was elected to the board of directors of Verigy Ltd. a semiconductor
test equipment manufacturer.



Rajat
Bahri– Rajat Bahri joined Trimble as chief financial officer in January
2005.  Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Bahri’s business experience
includes 15 years within the financial organization of Kraft Foods, Inc. and
General Foods Corporation, including service as the chief financial officer for
Kraft Canada, Inc., chief financial officer of Kraft Pizza Company, and
operations controller for Kraft Jacobs Suchard Europe.  Mr. Bahri
received a Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Delhi in 1985 and an
M.B.A. from Duke University in 1987.  In 2005, he was elected to the
board of STEC, Inc., a memory storage manufacturer.



Richard A.
Beyer– Rick Beyer joined Trimble in March 2004 as president of Trimble
Mobile Solutions and in May 2006, Beyer was appointed a vice president of
Trimble. In 2007, Mr. Beyer was appointed vice president of the Mobile Resources
Sector, with responsibility for Trimble’s Mobile Solutions Business Divisions.
Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Beyer held senior executive positions within the
wireless mobile solutions industry since 1987. Part of the original senior
executive team that launched Qualcomm's OmniTRAC's mobile satellite
communication solution, Mr. Beyer also held the positions of general manager at
Rockwell Collins, on-board computing division, executive vice president of
Norcom Networks president of Husky Technologies, now part of Itronix, and CEO of
TracerNet, which was acquired by Trimble.  He holds a B.A. from Olivet
College.



Bryn A.
Fosburgh–Bryn Fosburgh joined
Trimble in 1994 as a technical service manager for surveying, mining, and
construction. In 2009, Mr. Fosburgh was appointed as vice president for
Trimble’s Construction Division, and he also has responsibility for a number of
corporate functions and geographical regions.  From 2007 to 2009, Mr.
Fosburgh was vice president for Trimble’s Construction and Agriculture
Divisions, which included responsibility for a number of corporate functions and
geographical regions.  Mr. Fosburgh served as vice president and
general manager of Trimble’s Engineering and Construction Division from 2005 to
2007.  Mr. Fosburgh has held numerous other roles with Trimble,
including vice president and general manager of the Geomatics and Engineering
Division, division vice president of Survey and Infrastructure, and director of
development for Land Survey. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Fosburgh was a civil engineer
and also held various engineering, research and operational positions for the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Defense Mapping Agency.  Mr. Fosburgh
received a B.S. in geology from the University of Wisconsin in Green Bay in 1985
and an M.S. in civil engineering from Purdue University in 1989.



Christopher W.
Gibson– Christopher W. Gibson joined Trimble in 1998 as European finance
and operations director.  In 2009, he was appointed to serve as vice
president responsible for Trimble’s Survey Division. Mr. Gibson has served in a
variety of leadership roles, including European managing director, division vice
president for worldwide sales, general manager of the Global Services Business,
and most recently, as general manager for the Survey Division.  Prior
to Trimble, Mr. Gibson’s business experience includes a number of financial
management roles with Tandem Computers, and financial analyst roles with
Unilever subsidiaries.  Mr. Gibson received a BA in Business Studies
in 1985 from Thames Polytechnic, now the University of Greenwich, and was
admitted as a Fellow to the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants in
1994.



Mark A.
Harrington –Mark Harrington joined Trimble in January 2004 as a vice
president, primarily responsible for strategy and business
development.  In 2009, Mr. Harrington was appointed vice president for
Trimble’s Agriculture and Mapping and Geographical Information System Divisions,
and also has responsibility for a number of corporate functions and geographical
regions. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Harrington’s was vice president for Trimble’s
Survey and Mapping and Geographical Information System, as well as the
responsibility for a number of corporate functions and geographical
regions.   Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Harrington held several
executive finance positions,  including vice president of finance at
Finisar Corporation, chief financial officer for Cielo Communications,
Inc.,  and Vixel Corporation, vice president of finance for
Spectra-Physics Lasers, Inc. and vice president of finance for Spectra-Physics
Analytical, Inc. Mr. Harrington began his career at Varian Associates, Inc. Mr.
Harrington received his B.S. in Business Administration from the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln.



Jürgen Kliem– Jürgen Kliem was appointed vice president of strategy and business
development in October 2008. From 2002 to 2008, Mr. Kliem served as general
manager of Trimble’s Survey Division, and prior to that, Mr. Kliem was
responsible for Trimble’s Engineering and Construction Division in Europe. Mr.
Kliem held various leadership roles Spectra Precision, which was acquired by
Trimble, and at Geotronics, a company acquired by Spectra Precision. Before
joining Geotronics, Mr. Kliem worked in a privately-held surveying firm
addressing cadastral, construction, plant and engineering
projects.  Mr. Kliem received a Diplom Ingenieur degree from the
University of Essen, Germany in 1982.





James A.
Kirkland– James A.
Kirkland joined Trimble as vice president and general counsel in July 2008.
Prior to joining Trimble, he worked for SpinVox Ltd. from October 2007 to
January 2008 as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development.  From
October 2003 to September 2007, he served as general counsel and executive vice
president, strategic development at Covad Communications.  Mr.
Kirkland also served as senior vice president of spectrum development and
general counsel at Clearwire Technologies, Inc. Mr. Kirkland began his career in
1984 as an associate at Mintz Levin and in 1992 he was promoted to
partner.  Mr. Kirkland received his BA from Georgetown University in
Washington, D.C. in 1981 and his J.D. from Harvard Law School in
1984.



Julie
Shepard–
Julie Shepard joined Trimble in December of 2006 as vice president of finance,
and was appointed principal accounting officer in May 2007.  Prior to
joining Trimble, Ms. Shepard served as vice president of finance and corporate
controller at Quantum Corporation, from 2005 to 2006, and prior to that, from
2004 to 2005, as an independent consultant to Quantum
Corporation.  Ms. Shepard brings with her over 20 years of experience
in a broad range of finance roles, including vice president of finance at Nishan
Systems. Ms. Shepard began her career at Price Waterhouse and is a Certified
Public Accountant. She received a B.S in Accounting from California State
University.



Dennis L.
Workman– Dennis Workman has served as vice president of Trimble since
1999. Mr. Workman was appoint as Trimble’s chief technical officer in March
2006, and also has responsibility for the Advanced Devices division. Since
joining Trimble in 1995, Mr. Workman has held a variety of management roles,
including senior director and chief technical officer of the Mobile and Timing
Technologies business group, general manager of Trimble's Automotive and Timing
group, director of engineering for Software & Component Technologies, and
director of the Timing vertical market.  Prior to Trimble, Mr. Workman
held various senior-level technical positions at Datum Inc., including chief
technical officer. Mr. Workman received a B.S. in mathematics and physics from
St. Mary’s College in 1967.



