Item 1.Business

Trimble Navigation Limited, a California corporation (“Trimble” or “the Company” or “we” or “our” or
“us”), provides integrated positioning, wireless, and software technology solutions that enable field and mobile workers to be more productive. Trimble customers include engineering and construction firms, contractors, surveying companies,
farmers and agricultural companies, enterprise firms with large-scale fleets, energy, mining and utility companies, and state, federal and municipal governments. Our products are sold based on return on investment and provide benefits that can
include lower operational costs, higher productivity, improved quality, safety, compliance and reduced environmental impact. Product examples include: equipment that automates large industrial equipment such as tractors and bulldozers; surveying
instruments; integrated systems that track fleets of vehicles and provide real-time information to the back-office; data collection systems that enable the management of large amounts of geo-referenced information; software solutions that connect
all aspects of a construction site or farm; and building information modeling (BIM) software that is used throughout the design, build-out, and maintenance of construction projectsto produce, communicate and analyze building models. We also
manufacture components for in-vehicle navigation and telematics systems, and timing modules used in the synchronization of wireless networks.

Generally, our products integrate the knowledge of location or position, with a wireless link that transmits this knowledge into a domain-specific
software application that enhances the productivity of the worker or asset. Position is provided through a number of technologies including the Global Positioning System, or GPS, other Global Navigation Satellite Systems, or GNSS and their
augmentation systems, and systems that use laser, optical, inertial or other technologies to establish position. Wireless communication techniques include both public networks, such as cellular and private networks, such as business band radio. Many
of our products are augmented by our software; this includes embedded firmware that enables positioning solutions, application software that allows the customer to make use of positioning information and other software solutions that are delivered
as either licensed software or in a hosted environment using a Software as a Service, or SaaS model.

We design and market our own products.
Our manufacturing strategy includes a combination of in-house assembly and third-party subcontractors. Our global operations include major development, manufacturing, or logistics operations in the United States, Sweden, Finland, Germany, New
Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, China, and India. Products are sold through dealers, representatives, joint ventures, and other channels throughout the world. These channels are supported by our sales offices located in 32
countries.

We began operations in 1978 and incorporated in California in 1981. Our common stock has been publicly traded on NASDAQ since 1990
under the symbol TRMB.

Technology Overview

A significant portion of our revenue is derived from applying Global Navigation Satellite System, or GNSS, technology to terrestrial applications. The GNSS includes the network of 24 orbiting U.S. Global
Positioning System, or GPS, radio navigation satellites and associated ground control that is funded and maintained by the U.S. Government and is available worldwide free of direct user fees, and the Russian GLONASS radio navigation satellite
system. Both the European Community and China are in the process of establishing operational radio navigation satellite systems. GNSS positioning is based on a technique that precisely measures distances from four or more satellites. The satellites
continuously transmit precisely timed radio signals using extremely accurate atomic clocks. A GNSS receiver measures distances from the satellites in view by determining the travel time of a signal from the satellite to the receiver, and then uses
those distances to compute its position. Under normal circumstances, a stand-alone GNSS receiver is able to calculate its position at any point on earth, in the earth’s atmosphere, or in lower earth orbit, to approximately 10 meters, 24 hours a
day. Much better accuracies are possible through a technique called “differential GNSS.” In addition to providing position, GNSS provides extremely accurate time measurement.







GNSS accuracy is dependent upon the locations of the receiver and the number of GNSS satellites that are
above the horizon at any given time. Reception of GNSS signals requires line-of-sight visibility between the satellites and the receiver, which can be blocked by buildings, hills, and dense foliage. The receiver must have a line of sight to at least
four satellites to determine its latitude, longitude, and time. The accuracy of GNSS may also be limited by distortion of GNSS signals from ionospheric and other atmospheric conditions.

Our GNSS products are based on proprietary receiver technology. Over time, the advances in positioning, wireless communications, and information technologies have enabled us to add more capability to our
products and thereby deliver more value to our users. GPS is being modernized and GLONASS modernization is planned. For example, the developments in wireless technology and deployments of next generation wireless networks have enabled less expensive
wireless communications. These developments provide the efficient transfer of position data to locations away from the positioning field device, allowing the data to be accessed by more users, thereby increasing productivity. This allows us to
integrate visualization and design software into some of our systems, as well as offer positioning services, all of which make our customers more efficient at what they do.

Our laser and optical products either measure distances and angles to provide a position in three dimensional space or are used as highly accurate laser references from which a position can be
established. The key elements of these products are typically a laser, which is generally a commercially available laser diode, and a complex mechanical assembly. These elements are augmented by software algorithms to provide measurements and
application-specific solutions.

Our software products deliver solutions to our customers to optimize their business processes and workflows
to improve productivity. Our software products range from field service and location oriented solutions on handheld and other small footprint devices, to scaleable server-based solutions that integrate field data with enterprise back office
applications and to domain-specific tools that assist the design and build process. These software solutions are built on configurable and enterprise-grade scalable platforms that can be tailored to the workflows that our customers follow to
implement their customized business processes. They also integrate various field devices and data collection points to provide a connected view of various field assets and activities. We complement our core offerings with other elective software
that are delivered as either licensed software or in a hosted environment using Software as a Service, or SaaS model. Our mobile resource management suite of products is a subscription-based SaaS offering. Our software products, whether they run on
a device, on a backend server behind the firewall or in our hosting center, allow our customers to derive the best results out of our GNSS, laser, optical and handheld products.

Business Strategy

Our business strategy is developed around an analysis of several key
elements:



•Attractive markets—We focus on underserved markets that offer potential for revenue growth, profitability and market leadership.



•Innovative solutions that provide significant benefits to our customers—We seek to apply our technology to applications in which position
data is important and where we can create unique value by enabling enhanced productivity in the field or field to back office. We look for opportunities in which the rate of technological change is high and which have a requirement for the
integration of multiple technologies into a solution.



•Distribution channels to best access our markets—We select distribution channels that best serve the needs of individual markets. These
channels can include independent dealers, joint ventures, OEM sales, distribution alliances with key partners as well as direct sales to end users. We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy and continue to develop
international channels.







Business Segments and Markets

We are organized into four reporting segments encompassing our various applications and product lines: Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions, Mobile Solutions and Advanced Devices. Our segments
are distinguished by the markets they serve. Each segment consists of businesses which are responsible for product development, marketing, sales, strategy and financial performance.

Engineering and Construction

Products in the Engineering and Construction segment address
the Civil Engineering, Building Construction, Surveying, Geospatial, Energy, Cadastral and Land Management Industries. Our Connected Site solutions improve productivity, accuracy, safety and environmental impact throughout the entire construction
process, providing advanced technologies and improved information flow across all phases of the construction process from initial feasibility, through survey, planning, design, site preparation, construction, and operations and maintenance.

To bolster the software solutions we provide to the Connected Site, we
formed a joint venture with Caterpillar in October of 2008, called VirtualSite Solutions, or VSS. VSS develops software for fleet management and connected worksite solutions. Its initial products are subscription-based software solutions that
include asset management and machine diagnostics capabilities. VSS solutions, as part of the Connected Site portfolio, are being sold through an independent dealer channel under the name of SITECH. We expect there to be approximately 110 SITECH
dealers world-wide by the end of 2012. A separate joint venture with Caterpillar, Caterpillar-Trimble Control Technologies or CTCT was formed in 2002 to develop the next generation of advanced electronic guidance and control products for earthmoving
machines. The joint venture develops machine control products that use site design information combined with accurate positioning technology to automatically control dozer blades and other machine tools. The joint venture supplies both Trimble and
Caterpillar, who each market, distribute, service and support the products using both companies’ independent distribution channels. Caterpillar offers products as a factory-installed option, while Trimble continues to address the aftermarket
with products for earthmoving machines from Caterpillar and other equipment manufacturers.

In addition to the Connected Site, we offer
productivity solutions targeted at the building construction sector called BIM solutions. We deliver solutions that link office-based processes and information with field personnel which include taking BIM and other design data to the field for
highly accurate positioning and layout of foundations and mechanical, electrical, and plumbing systems. BIM solutions are being adopted by the construction, engineering and architectural communities to produce, communicate and analyze building
models.







Trimble’s BIM focus is on the deployment of integrated solutions for the contracting community, with enhanced use further in the construction process including “BIM to Field”.
Trimble’s “BIM to Field” vision extends the design data created in the office down to field level systems for precise delivery of design and construction elements. The result is a more efficient and accurate project, reduced waste and
re-work and faster project completion times, enabled through the collaboration of the project’s trade groups, interconnected through the use of office and field tools.

We also design and market handheld data collectors, high productivity survey and mapping equipment and data collection software for field use by surveyors, contractors, and other professionals. These
products are primarily sold directly through a global distribution network. In addition, we design and market aerial and land mobile mapping data collection systems and office software for use by mapping companies, surveyors and other professionals
to collect, manage and analyze geospatial data and information.

We sell and distribute our other products in the Engineering and Construction
segment primarily through a global network of independent dealers that are supported by Trimble personnel. This channel is supplemented by relationships that create additional channel breadth including our joint ventures with Caterpillar and Nikon,
as well as private branding arrangements with other companies.

Competitors in this segment are typically companies that provide optical,
laser or GNSS positioning products as well as companies that produce software specific to the construction process. Our principal competitors are Topcon Corporation and Hexagon.

Representative products sold in this segment include:

Trimble S8 Total Station—Our S8
Total Station is our most advanced optical instrument designed to deliver unsurpassed performance for both typical surveying and specialized engineering applications such as monitoring and tunneling. Our S8 combined with our 4D Control software
creates a powerful solution for real-time and post-processed monitoring of permanent structures such as dams, short-term construction activities, and side slopes in mines.

Trimble R8 GNSS System—Our R8 GNSS System is a multi-channel, multi-frequency, multi-constellation GNSS receiver, antenna and data-link radio combined in one compact unit. This enhanced survey
system also features capabilities to customize, remotely configure and connect to Trimble R8 GNSS base and rover receivers from the office, saving additional trips to the field. Our R8 GNSS combines advanced receiver technology and a proven system
design to provide maximum accuracy and productivity for a variety of surveying applications.

Trimble VX Spatial Station—Our
VX™Spatial Station is an advanced spatial imaging system that combines optical, 3D scanning, and imaging capabilities to measure objects in 3D to produce 2D and 3D deliverables for spatial imaging projects. It enables users to blend
extremely accurate ground-based information with airborne data to provide comprehensive datasets for use in the geospatial information industry.

Trimble Access Software—Our Trimble Access software is a powerful field and office surveying solution that expedites data collection, processing, analysis and project information delivery
through streamlined workflows and Internet-enabled collaboration and control amongst project team members. With Trimble Access software, surveyors have access to powerful yet familiar tools for typical work such as topographic surveys, staking, or
control as well as various streamlined workflows for specialized applications, such as road surveying, tunneling, monitoring and mining.

GCS Family of Grade Control Systems—Grade control systems meet construction contractors’ needs with productivity-enhancing solutions for
earthmoving, site prep, and roadwork. Our GCS family provides upgrade options that deliver earthmoving contractors the flexibility to select a system that meets their daily needs today, and later add on to meet their changing needs.







Trimble Layout Solutions—Trimble Layout solutions such as Trimble MEP and LM80 meet the needs of
general, concrete, mechanical, electrical and plumbing contractors. For example, using the Trimble MEP layout solution, mechanical, electrical and plumbing contractors can increase productivity significantly by providing precise location of pipe,
duct, and cable tray hangers and avoiding costly mistakes in the building process. Our acquisition of Tekla Corporation (Tekla) added a line of BIM software, that can be shared by contractors, structural engineers, steel detailers, and
fabricators, as well as concrete detailers and manufacturers. The highly detailed as-built structural models are designed to make building contractors more efficient and productive, thus making construction and buildings more sustainable.

Spectra Precision Laser Portable Tools—Our Spectra Precision®Laser family includes a broad range of laser based tools for the interior, drywall and ceilings, HVAC, and
mechanical contractor. Designed to replace traditional methods of measurement and leveling for a wide range of interior construction applications, our laser tools are easy to learn and use and include rotating lasers for horizontal leveling and
vertical alignment, as well as laser pointers and a laser based distance measuring device.

Proliance
Software—Proliance®software allows infrastructure-intensive organizations to optimize the
Plan-Build-Operate project lifecycle for complex capital projects, construction and real estate programs, and extensive facility portfolios. Our Proliance software was designed for large building owner/operators, real estate developers, and
engineering-driven organizations managing $250 million or more annually in new project construction or facility renovations.

GeoSpatial
Solutions—Our GeoSpatial solutions family enables mobile mapping companies to capture georeferenced data, extract features and attributes, and analyze conditions and change, thereby generating information to better manage assets and
operations. Aerial and land mobile mapping systems incorporating imaging and laser scanning, combined with powerful GIS, photogrammetry and feature extraction software, generate high accuracy as-built drawings for the transportation, utilities,
energy transmission and distribution industries.

Trimble Construction Manager Software—Trimble Construction Manager software
enables the management of construction assets from one centralized software interface. The software works with one of several hardware locator devices to help track and manage the use of assets on and off site, leading to improved equipment
productivity, fuel consumption, and maintenance monitoring. VirtualSite Solutions, a joint venture between Caterpillar and Trimble, was formed to develop the next generation of software for fleet management and connected worksite solutions to be
sold through the SITECH dealer distribution channel.

Field Solutions

Our Field Solutions segment addresses the agriculture and geographic information system (GIS) markets.

Our agriculture products consist of guidance and positioning systems, automated application systems and information management solutions that enable farmers to improve crop performance, profitability and
environmental quality. Trimble precision agriculture solutions can assist farmers throughout every step of their farming process—beginning with land preparation and throughout the planting, nutrient and pest management, and harvesting phases of
a crop cycle. We provide manual and automated navigation guidance for tractors and other farm equipment used in spraying, planting, cultivation and harvesting applications. The benefits to the farmer include faster machine operation, higher yields,
and lower consumption of chemicals than conventional equipment. We also provide positioning solutions for leveling agricultural fields in irrigation applications and aligning drainage systems to better manage water flow in fields. In addition, we
provide solutions to automate applications of pesticide and seeding. Our information management products offer solutions for data management, field to office data transfer and record keeping.







We use multiple distribution channels to access the agricultural market, including independent dealers and
partners such as CNH Global. A significant portion of our sales came through CNH Global and dealer networks. Competitors in this market are either vertically integrated implement companies such as John Deere, or agricultural instrumentation
suppliers such as Raven, Hemisphere GPS, and Novariant.

Our GIS product line is centered on handheld data collectors that gather information
in the field to be incorporated into GIS databases. Our handheld unit enables this data to be collected and automatically stored while confirming the location of the asset. By utilizing a combination of wireless technologies this information can be
communicated from the field worker to the back-office GIS and also gives the field worker the ability to download information from the database. This capability provides significant advantages to users including improved productivity, accuracy and
access to information in the field.

Distribution for GIS products is primarily through a network of independent dealers and business
partners, supported by Trimble personnel. Primary markets for our GIS products and solutions include both governmental and commercial users. Users are most often municipal governments and natural resource agencies. Commercial users include utility
companies. Competitors in this market are typically survey instrument companies utilizing GNSS technology such as Topcon and Leica.

Representative products sold in this segment include:

CFX-750—Our CFX-750™ product is our newest touchscreen display offering affordable guidance, steering and precision agriculture capabilities. The CFX-750 display provides GNSS-based
functionality for vehicle operators to steer tractors, sprayers, fertilizer applicators, air seeders and large tillage tools that require consistent pass-to-pass accuracy to help save fuel, increase efficiency and reduce input costs for agricultural
operations.

Field-IQ system—Our Field-IQ™system is a section control and variable rate application control system
that prevents seed and fertilizer overlap, controls the rate of material applications and monitors seed delivery and fertilizer blockage.

Autopilot System—Our GNSS-enabled, agricultural navigation system connects to a tractor’s steering system and automatically steers the
tractor along a precise path to within three centimeters or less. This enables both higher machine productivity and more precise application of seed and chemicals, thereby reducing costs to the farmer.

EZ-Steer System—Our value-added assisted steering system, when combined with any of our guidance display systems, automatically steers
agricultural vehicles along a path within 20 centimeters or less. This system installs in less than thirty minutes and is designed to reduce gaps and overlaps in spraying, fertilizing, and other field applications, as well as reduce operator
fatigue.

Trimble Connected Farm—Our end-to-end solution combines in-cab precision control, field record-keeping and seamless
field to office information management.

GreenSeeker and WeedSeeker Sensors—Our crop sensing technology reduces farmers’
costs and environmental impact by controlling the application of nitrogen, herbicide, and other crop inputs for optimum plant growth.

Juno Series—Our Juno®family includes compact and
cost-effective GPS handhelds designed to equip an entire workforce for data collection and fieldwork.

GeoExplorer 2008
Series—Our GeoExplorer®family combines a GNSS receiver in a rugged handheld unit running
industry standard Microsoft Windows Mobile version 6.0, making it easy to collect and maintain data about objects in the field.







Fieldport Software—Our Fieldport®software focuses on automating field service processes and operational efficiency for water and wastewater utility
customers.

UtilityCenter Software—Our UtilityCenter®software is a GIS-based enterprise suite of modules oriented towards the electric and gas utilities market. Modules include Outage Management or OMS, Mobile Asset
Management, Data Collection, Staking, Network Tracing & Isolation and Field-based Editing.

Mobile Solutions

Our Mobile Solutions segment provides both hardware and software applications for managing mobile work, mobile workers, and mobile assets. The software is
provided in both a client server model or web-based. Our software is provided through our hosted platform for a monthly subscription service fee or as a perpetual license with annual maintenance and support fees.

Our vehicle solutions typically include an onboard proprietary hardware device consisting of a GPS receiver, business logic, sensor interface, and a
wireless modem. Our solution usually includes the communication service from/to the vehicle to our data center and access over the internet to the application software.

Our mobile worker solutions include a rugged handset device and software designed to automate service technician work in the field at the point of customer contact. The mobile worker handset solutions
also synchronize to a client server at the back office for integration with other mission-critical business applications.

Our scheduling and
dispatch solution is an enterprise software program to optimize scheduling and routing of field service technicians. For dynamic capacity management, our capacity planner, capacity controller, and intelligent appointer modules round out this
innovative service delivery automation technology.

One element of our market strategy targets opportunities in specific vertical markets
where we believe we can provide a unique value to the end-user by tailoring our solutions for a particular industry. Sample markets include transportation and logistics, telecommunications, utilities, field service, construction supply, direct
store delivery, forestry, public safety, and transportation and logistics. In August 2011 we acquired privately-held PeopleNet, a leading provider of solutions to the transportation and logistics market. PeopleNet provides fleets with software
and hardware solutions that help manage regulatory compliance, fuel costs, driver safety, and customer visibility.

Our enterprise strategy
focuses on sales to large enterprise accounts with more than 1,000 vehicles or routes. Here, in addition to a Trimble-hosted solution, we can also integrate our service directly into the customer’s IT infrastructure, giving them improved
control of their information. In this market, we sell directly to end-users. Sales cycles tend to be long due to field trials followed by an extensive decision-making process.

Representative products sold in this segment include:

Fleet Productivity—Our
fleet productivity solution offerings are comprised of the GeoManager and PeopleNet mobile platforms. The GeoManager™ system provides different levels of service that run from snapshots of fleet activity to real-time fleet dispatch capability
via access to the web-based platform through a secure internet connection. The PeopleNet system includes solutions encompassing route management, safety and compliance, end-to-end vehicle management, and supply chain communications, and
PeopleNet’s products are used by approximately 1,500 transportation fleets in the US and Canada.

Consumer Packaged Goods, or
CPG—This software solution operates in the Microsoft CE/Pocket or WinMobile PC environment and addresses the pre-sales, delivery, route sales, and full service vending functions performed by mobile workers. The software handles all
communications from/to the mobile computer as well as from/to the host and any other ERP or decision support systems.







Field Service—Our handset-based mobile solution enables technicians to maintain and repair
residential and commercial appliances, office equipment, medical equipment, refrigeration equipment, fountain, and manufacturing equipment, and manage a variety of service functions including wireless dispatching of service calls, real-time
messaging, spare parts management, and work order and workflow management. Trimble Field Service customers have benefited from increased service calls per day, an increase in first call resolution, and reduction in administrative workload to name a
few results.

Public Safety—We provide a suite of solutions for the public safety sector including our PocketCitation™ system
which is an electronic ticketing system that enables law enforcement officers to issue traffic citations utilizing a mobile handheld device. Within this sector, we also provide desktop software which enables accident investigators and other
public safety professionals to reconstruct and simulate vehicle accidents.

Taskforce—The Taskforce™ software solution
provides scheduling and dispatch solutions for field service technicians by synchronizing the right human and physical resources required to optimize a field service resource network. The system manages significant numbers of dynamic scheduling
resources in an unpredictable field service environment to increase productivity, field force utilization, and control-to-field employee ratios.

Cengea Solutions—Cengea provides spatially-enabled land and supply chain management software solutions to improve business processes across the forestry, agriculture and environment/natural
resources industries.

Advanced Devices

Advanced Devices includes the product lines from our Embedded Technologies, Timing, Applanix, Trimble Outdoors, and Military and Advanced Systems, or MAS, and ThingMagic businesses. With the exception of
Trimble Outdoors and Applanix these businesses share several common characteristics: they are hardware centric, generally market to original equipment manufacturers, or OEM, system integrators or service providers, and have products that can be
utilized in a number of different end-user markets and applications. The various operations that comprise this segment were aggregated on the basis that no single operation accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue, operating income or
assets.

Within Embedded Technologies and Timing, we supply GNSS modules, licensing and complementary technologies, and GNSS-integrated
sub-system solutions for applications requiring precise position, time or frequency. Embedded Technologies and Timing serves a broad range of vertical markets including telecommunications, automotive electronics, and commercial electronics. Sales
are made directly to OEMs, system integrators, value-added resellers and service providers who incorporate our components into a complete system-level solution.

Embedded Technologies and Timing has developed GPS technologies which it makes available for license. These technologies can run on certain digital signal processors, or DSP, or microprocessors, removing
the need for dedicated GPS baseband signal processor chips. We have a cooperative licensing deal with Nokia for our Global Navigation Satellite System, or GNSS, patents related to designated wireless products and services involving location
technologies, such as GPS, assisted GPS, or Galileo. We also have a licensing agreement with Marvell Semiconductors for our full GPS Digital Signal Processor software as well as tools for development support and testing.

Our MAS business supplies GPS receivers and embedded modules that use the military’s GPS advanced capabilities. The modules are principally used in
aircraft navigation and timing applications. Military products are sold directly to either the U.S. Government or defense contractors. Sales are also made to authorized foreign end users. Competitors in this market include Rockwell Collins, L3 and
Raytheon.

Our Trimble Outdoors business utilizes GPS-enabled cell phones to provide information for outdoor recreational activities. Some of
the recreational activities include hiking, biking, backpacking, boating, and water sports. Consumers purchase the Trimble Outdoors product through our wireless operator partners which include Sprint-Nextel, SouthernLINC Wireless, and Boost Mobile.







Our Applanix business is a leading provider of advanced products and enabling solutions that maximize
productivity through mobile mapping and positioning to professional markets worldwide. Applanix develops, manufactures, sells, and supports high-value, precision products that combine GNSS with inertial sensors for accurate measurement of position
and attitude, flight management systems, and scalable mobile mapping solutions used in airborne, land, and marine applications. Sales are made by our direct sales force to end users, systems integrators, and OEMs, and through regional agents.
Competitors include Leica, IGI and Novatel.

Our ThingMagic business is a leading provider of Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Radio Frequency
Identification (RFID) reader modules, finished/fixed-position RFID readers and design services. ThingMagic RFID readers support demanding high-volume applications deployed by some of the world’s largest industrial automation firms,
manufacturers, healthcare organizations, retailers and consumer companies. ThingMagic consulting, design and development services assist customers with the integration of auto-identification and sensing technologies into everyday products and
solutions. Sales are made directly to OEMs, system integrators, value-added resellers and solution providers who incorporate our technology into point products or complete system-level solutions. Competitors include Motorola, Impinj, Alien
Technologies and Sirit.

Representative products sold in this segment include:

GPS Receiver Modules—The Lassen®, Copernicus®, CondorTM, and PandaTMfamilies of GPS modules are full-function GPS modules in a variety of form factors, some smaller than your
fingertip.

TM3000 Asset Tracking Device—Our TM3000 product is a flexible, open platform that enables a broad
range of applications such as: fleet management, mobile asset tracking and recovery, and driver monitoring and assistance. This device integrates wireless communications, a positioning function, and an application engine in a package designed to
improve the profits for service-focused businesses.

Thunderbolt GPS Disciplined Clock—Our Thunderbolt®clock is a fifth-generation product from our GPS Timing and Synchronization division, which outputs precision
time and frequency. It also serves as the architectural basis for GPS disciplined clocks sold to manufacturers of CDMA, WiMax and LTE infrastructure.

Applanix POS/AV System—Our integrated GNSS/inertial system for airborne surveying measures aircraft position to an accuracy of a few centimeters and aircraft attitude (angular orientation) to
an accuracy of 30 arc seconds or better. This system is typically interfaced to large format cameras and scanning lasers for producing geo-referenced topographic maps of the terrain.

Applanix DSS Digital Sensor System—Our digital airborne imaging solution produces high-resolution orthophoto map products. Certified by the USGS, the system consists of a mapping grade digital
camera that is tightly integrated with a GNSS/Inertial system, flight management system, or FMS, and processing software for automatic geo-referencing of each pixel.

Force 524D Module—This dual frequency, embedded GPS module is used in a variety of military airborne applications.

Trimble Outdoors Service—Our trip planning and navigation software works with GPS-enabled cell phones and conventional GPS receivers. This software enables consumers to research specific trips
on-line as part of trip pre-planning. In addition, users are able to share outdoor and off-road experiences on-line with their friends and family.

Trimble Indoor Mobile Mapping Solution—Our Indoor Mobile Mapping Solution, or TIMMS, is the optimal fusion of technologies for capturing spatial data of indoor and other GNSS-denied
areas. It produces both LiDAR and spherical video and enables the creation of accurate, real-life representations (maps, models) of interior spaces with all of their contents.







ThingMagic RFID Readers—Our RFID readers include the Mercury®family of embedded reader modules for the integration of RFID into OEM products including printers, handheld
scanners and other stationary and mobile devices. Our broad portfolio of finished/fixed-position RFID readers are used to develop asset tracking, personnel identification, secure access and other solutions that accelerate productivity and address
customer needs for manageability, scalability, security, low total cost of ownership, and enterprise network integration.

Acquisitions and
Joint Ventures

Our growth strategy is centered on developing and marketing innovative and complete value-added solutions to our existing
customers, while also marketing them to new customers and geographic regions. In some cases, this has led to partnering with or acquiring companies that bring technologies, products or distribution capabilities that will allow us to establish a
market beachhead, penetrate a market more effectively, or develop solutions more quickly than if we had done so solely through internal development. The following companies were acquired during fiscal 2011 and are combined in the results of
operations since the date of acquisition:

PeopleNet

On August 5, 2011, we acquired privately-held PeopleNet, headquartered in Minnetonka, Minnesota, and its affiliates. PeopleNet is a leading provider of integrated onboard computing and mobile
communications systems for effective fleet management. PeopleNet provides fleets with software and hardware solutions that help manage regulatory compliance, fuel costs, driver safety and customer visibility. PeopleNet’s performance
is reported under our Mobile Solutions business segment.

Tekla Corporation

On July 8, 2011, we acquired Tekla Corporation, headquartered in Espoo, Finland, and its subsidiaries. Tekla is a leading provider of BIM software and offers model driven solutions for customers in
the infrastructure and energy industries (in particular energy distribution, public administration and civil engineering and utilities). Tekla’s building and construction performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business
segment and Tekla’s infrastructure and energy performance is reported under our Field Solutions business segment.

Yamei

On June 7, 2011, we acquired Yamei Electronics Technology, Co. Ltd, a Chinese wholly-owned foreign entity (WOFE) of Digisec Group which is
incorporated in the Cayman Islands. Yamei manufactures automotive electronics products used for anti-theft GPS monitoring and tracking, RFID-based smart key and start and on-board diagnostics systems. Yamei’s performance is reported under our
Mobile Solutions business segment.

Dynamic Survey Solutions

On May 10, 2011, we acquired seismic survey software provider Dynamic Survey Solutions, Inc. of Essex, Vermont. Dynamic Survey Solutions, Inc. is a leader in seismic survey software. Dynamic Survey
Solutions’ performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

Ashtech

On May 3, 2011, we acquired privately-held Ashtech S.A.S., headquartered in Carquefou, France, and its affiliates. Ashtech is a leading provider of
precision GNSS products for positioning, guidance, navigation and timing, with a wide range of solutions for diverse applications in science, education, government, industry and commerce. Ashtech’s performance is reported under our Engineering
and Construction business segment.







Beartooth Mapping

On April 19, 2011, we acquired privately-held Beartooth Mapping, Inc. based in Billings, Montana. Beartooth is a leading provider of print and digital maps for outdoor enthusiasts using MyTopo
software and web services. Beartooth’s performance is reported under our Advanced Devices business segment.

OmniSTAR

On March 24, 2011, we acquired certain assets related to the OmniSTAR™ land-based GNSS signal corrections business from Fugro N.V. OmniSTAR
provides space-based GNSS correction services that can improve the accuracy of a GNSS receiver for precise positioning applications. The correction services business performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

GEDO CE Trolley System

On
February 11, 2011, we acquired the GEDO CE Trolley System and software from Sinning Vermessungsbedarf GmbH of Bavaria, Germany. The new trolley system and software provide surveying and documentation for railway track maintenance and
modernization. The GEDO CE Trolley System’s performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

Mesta

On February 9, 2011, we acquired a suite of software solutions from Mesta Entreprener AS, a subsidiary of Mesta Konsern AS. Mesta Konsern
AS is one of Norway’s largest contracting groups for road and highway construction as well as related operations and maintenance. Mesta’s performance is reported under our Engineering and Construction business segment.

Patents, Licenses and Intellectual Property

We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications
for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We hold approximately 1000 U.S. issued and enforceable patents and approximately
275 non-U.S. patents, the majority of which cover GNSS technology and other applications such as optical and laser technology. We also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of Trimble and its
products and services globally. We prefer to own the intellectual property used in our products, either directly or through subsidiaries. From time to time we license technology from third parties.

Sales and Marketing

We tailor the
distribution channel to the needs of our products and regional markets through a number of sales channel solutions around the world. We sell our products worldwide primarily through dealers, distributors, and authorized representatives, occasionally
granting exclusive rights to market certain products within specific countries. This channel is supported and supplemented (where third party distribution is not available) by our regional sales offices throughout the world. We also utilize
distribution alliances, OEM relationships, and joint ventures with other companies as a means to serve selected markets, as well as direct sales to end users.

During fiscal 2011, sales to customers in the United States represented 45%, Europe represented 24%, Asia Pacific represented 15%, and other regions represented 16% of our total revenue. During fiscal
2010, sales to customers in the United States represented 46%, Europe represented 22%, Asia Pacific represented 18%, and other regions represented 14% of our total revenue. During fiscal 2009, sales to customers in the United States represented 50%,
Europe represented 23%, Asia Pacific represented 17%, and other regions represented 10% of our total revenue.







Seasonality of Business

* Our individual segment revenue may be affected by seasonal buying patterns. Typically, the second fiscal quarter has been the strongest quarter for the Company driven by the construction buying season.
However, based upon recent acquisitions, this trend may not be as pronounced.

Backlog

In most of our markets, the time between order placement and shipment is short. Orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. In
general, customers may cancel or reschedule orders without penalty. For these reasons, we do not believe that orders are an accurate measure of backlog and, therefore, we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future revenue or
material to understanding our business.

Manufacturing

Manufacturing of many of our GNSS products is subcontracted to Flextronics International Limited in Mexico. We utilize Flextronics for most Survey and Field Solutions products. We also utilize
Benchmark Electronics Inc. in China for our Component Technologies products. In 2011 Benchmark Mexico manufactured most of our Construction and Mobile Solutions products that in 2012 will be manufactured at Jabil Mexico. Flextronics is
responsible for significant material procurement, assembly, and testing. We continue to manage product design through pilot production for the subcontracted products, and we are directly involved in qualifying suppliers and key components used in
all our products. Our current contract with Flextronics continues in effect until either party gives the other ninety days written notice.

We
manufacture GNSS, laser and optics-based products at our plants in Dayton, Ohio; Danderyd, Sweden; and Shanghai, China. Some of these products or portions of these products are also subcontracted to third parties for assembly.

Our design and manufacturing sites in Dayton, Ohio; Sunnyvale, California; Danderyd, Sweden; Kaiserslautern, Germany; and Shanghai, China are registered
to ISO9001:2000, covering the design, production, distribution, and servicing of all our products.

Research and Development

We believe that our competitive position is maintained through the development and introduction of new products that incorporate improved
features, better performance, smaller size and weight, lower cost, or some combination of these factors. We invest substantially in the development of new products. We also make significant investment in the positioning, communication and
information technologies that underlie our products and will likely provide competitive advantages.

Our research and development
expenditures, net of reimbursed amounts were $197.0 million for fiscal 2011, $150.1 million for fiscal 2010, and $136.6 million for fiscal 2009.

* We expect to continue investing in research and development with the goal of maintaining or improving our competitive position, as well as the goal of entering new markets.

Employees

At the end of fiscal 2011, we
employed 5,301 employees, including 17% in manufacturing, 31% in engineering, 38% in sales and marketing, and 15% in general and administrative positions. Approximately 54% of employees are in locations outside the United States.







Our employees are not represented by unions except for those in Sweden. Some employees in Germany and France
are represented by works councils. We also employ temporary and contract personnel that are not included in the above headcount numbers. We have not experienced work stoppages or similar labor actions.

Available Information

The
Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on the Company’s web site throughwww.trimble.com/investors.html,
as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained on our web site is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing or telephoning us at our principal executive offices at
the following address or telephone number:

Trimble Navigation Limited

935 Stewart Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94085

Attention: Investor Relations Telephone: 408-481-8000

Executive Officers

The
names, ages and positions of the Company’s executive officers as of February 21, 2012 are as follows:



NameAgePositionSteven W. Berglund60President and Chief Executive OfficerRajat Bahri47Chief Financial OfficerBryn A. Fosburgh49Vice PresidentChristopher W. Gibson51Vice PresidentMark A. Harrington56Vice PresidentJürgen D. Kliem54Vice PresidentJames A. Kirkland52Vice President and General CounselJulie A. Shepard54Vice President, Finance

Steven W. Berglund—Steven Berglund has served as president and chief executive officer of Trimble
since March 1999. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Berglund was president of Spectra Precision, a group within Spectra Physics AB. Mr. Berglund’s business experience includes a variety of senior leadership positions with Spectra Physics,
manufacturing and planning roles at Varian Associates, and began his career as a process engineer at Eastman Kodak. He attended the University of Oslo and the University of Minnesota where he received a B.S. in chemical engineering.
Mr. Berglund received his M.B.A. from the University of Rochester. Mr. Berglund is a member of the board of directors of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group and a member of the board of trustees of World Educational Services.

Rajat Bahri—Rajat Bahri joined Trimble as chief financial officer in January 2005. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Bahri’s
business experience includes 15 years within the financial organization of Kraft Foods, Inc. and General Foods Corporation, including service as the chief financial officer for Kraft Canada, Inc., chief financial officer of Kraft Pizza Company, and
operations controller for Kraft Jacobs Suchard Europe. Mr. Bahri received a Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Delhi in 1985 and an M.B.A. from Duke University in 1987. In 2005, he was elected to the board of STEC, Inc., a memory
storage manufacturer.

Bryn A. Fosburgh—Mr. Bryn Fosburgh joined Trimble in 1994 and currently serves as vice
president for Trimble’s heavy and highway construction business, Caterpillar-related joint ventures and the majority of the







Mobile Solutions segment. From 2009 to 2010, Mr. Fosburgh served as vice president for Trimble’s Construction Division, with responsibility for a number of corporate functions and
geographical regions. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Fosburgh was vice president for Trimble’s Construction and Agriculture Divisions, and from 2005 to 2007, Mr. Fosburgh served as vice president and general manager of Trimble’s
Engineering and Construction Division. Mr. Fosburgh has held numerous roles, including vice president and general manager for Trimble’s Geomatics and Engineering Division, and division vice president of Survey and Infrastructure. Prior to
Trimble, Mr. Fosburgh was a civil engineer and also held various positions for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Defense Mapping Agency. Mr. Fosburgh received a B.S. in geology from the University of Wisconsin in Green Bay in 1985 and
an M.S. in civil engineering from Purdue University in 1989.

Christopher W. Gibson—Christopher W. Gibson joined Trimble in
1998 as European finance and operations director. In 2009, he was appointed to serve as vice president responsible for Trimble’s Survey Division, and in December 2010, those responsibilities were expanded to include oversight of geographic
regions and divisions, including Building Construction, Construction Tools, and the Hilti joint venture. From 2008 to 2009, Mr. Gibson served as the general manager for the Survey Division, and from 2005 to 2008, he was general manager for
the Global Services Division. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Gibson’s business experience includes a number of financial management roles with Tandem Computers, and financial analyst roles with Unilever subsidiaries. Mr. Gibson received a
BA in Business Studies in 1985 from Thames Polytechnic, now the University of Greenwich, and was admitted as a Fellow to the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants in 1994.

Mark A. Harrington—Mark Harrington has served as a vice president of Trimble since 2004, and currently serves as vice president for Trimble’s Agriculture and Mapping and
Geographical Information System Divisions, with responsibility for several corporate functions and geographical regions. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Harrington served as vice president for Trimble’s Survey and Mapping and Geographical
Information Systems Divisions, and from 2004 to 2007, he served as vice president of strategy and business development. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Harrington served as vice president of finance at Finisar Corporation, chief financial officer for
Cielo Communications, Inc., and Vixel Corporation, vice president of finance for Spectra-Physics Lasers, Inc. and vice president of finance for Spectra-Physics Analytical, Inc. Mr. Harrington began his career at Varian Associates, Inc.
Mr. Harrington received his B.S. in Business Administration from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.

Jürgen D.
Kliem—Jürgen Kliem was appointed vice president of strategy and business development in October 2008. From 2002 to 2008, Mr. Kliem served as general manager of Trimble’s Survey Division, and prior to that, Mr. Kliem
was responsible for Trimble’s Engineering and Construction Division in Europe. Mr. Kliem held various leadership roles at Spectra Precision, which was acquired by Trimble, and at Geotronics, a company acquired by Spectra Precision. Before
joining Geotronics, Mr. Kliem worked in a privately-held surveying firm addressing cadastral, construction, plant and engineering projects. Mr. Kliem received a Diplom Ingenieur degree from the University of Essen, Germany in 1982.

James A. Kirkland—James A. Kirkland joined Trimble as vice president and general counsel in July 2008. Prior to joining
Trimble, he worked for SpinVox Ltd. from October 2007 to January 2008 as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development. From October 2003 to September 2007, he served as general counsel and executive vice president, strategic development at Covad
Communications. Mr. Kirkland also served as senior vice president of spectrum development and general counsel at Clearwire Technologies, Inc. Mr. Kirkland began his career in 1984 as an associate at Mintz Levin and in 1992 he was promoted
to partner. Mr. Kirkland received his BA from Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. in 1981 and his J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1984.

Julie A. Shepard—Julie Shepard joined Trimble in December of 2006 as vice president of finance, and was appointed principal accounting officer in May 2007. Prior to joining
Trimble, Ms. Shepard served as vice president of finance and corporate controller at Quantum Corporation, from 2005 to 2006, and prior to that, from 2004 to 2005, as an independent consultant to Quantum Corporation. Ms. Shepard brings with
her over 20 years of experience in a broad range of finance roles, including vice president of finance at Nishan Systems. Ms. Shepard began her career at Price Waterhouse and is a Certified Public Accountant. She received a B.S in Accounting
from California State University.







