Item 1.Business



Trimble Navigation Limited, a California corporation is a leading provider of technology solutions that enable professionals and field mobile workers to improve or transform their work processes.  Our solutions are used across a range of industries including agriculture, architecture, civil engineering, survey and land administration, construction, geospatial, environmental management, government, natural resources, transportation and utilities.  Representative Trimble customers include engineering and construction firms, contractors, surveying companies, farmers and agricultural companies, enterprise firms with large-scale fleets, energy, mining and utility companies, and state, federal and municipal governments.

Our focus is on integrating our broad technological and application capabilities to create system-level solutions that transform how work is done within the industries we serve. Our products are sold based on return on investment and provide benefits such as lower operational costs, higher productivity, improved quality, enhanced safety and regulatory compliance, and reduced environmental impact.  Representative products include equipment that automates large industrial equipment such as tractors and bulldozers; integrated systems that track fleets of vehicles and workers and provide real-time information and powerful analytics to the back-office; data collection systems that enable the management of large amounts of geo-referenced information; software solutions that connect all aspects of a construction site or a farm; and building information modeling (BIM) software that is used throughout the design, build, and operation of buildings.

Our customers increasingly demand integration of individual point solutions, whether hardware sensors or software applications, in order to improve their complete work processes.  Our solutions provide the connections between hardware and applications, rather than requiring customers to integrate point solutions on their own.   We also increasingly provide additional services (training, consulting, and integration services) to link our solutions with existing customer workflow solutions, such as ERP systems.

Many of our products integrate positioning or location technologies with wireless communications and software or information technologies.  Information about location or position is transmitted via a wireless link to a domain-specific software application which enhances the productivity of the worker, asset or work process.  Position is provided through a number of technologies including the Global Positioning System (GPS), other Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) and their augmentation systems, and systems that use laser, optical, inertial or other technologies to establish position.  Integration of wireless communications in our solutions facilitates real-time data flow, communication and situational awareness across sites and between work sites or vehicles and offices.

Software is a key element of most of our solutions and accounts for a steadily increasing portion of our business.



Our software products range from embedded real-time firmware, through field service and location oriented solutions on handheld and other small footprint devices, to scalable server-based solutions that integrate field data with large scale enterprise back-office applications.  Many of our software solutions are built on configurable and enterprise grade scalable platforms that can be tailored to the workflows that our customers follow to implement their customized business processes.  Our software capabilities include extensive 3-D modeling, analysis and design platforms, civil engineering alignment selection solutions, design and data preparation software, BIM software, cloud-based collaboration solutions, applications for advanced surveying and geospatial data collection and analysis, as well as a large suite of domain-specific software applications used across a host of industries including agriculture, construction, utilities, transportation and natural resources. Our software is sold as a perpetual license or as a subscription, and can be delivered for on-premise installation or in a hosted environment as Software as a Service (SaaS).  Our software products allow our customers to improve their productivity, gain insight into their projects and operations, to enhance their decision making and to gain maximum benefit from a broad range of other Trimble products and systems.

Our global operations include major development, manufacturing, or logistics operations in the United States, Sweden, Finland, Germany, New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, China, and India.  Products are typically sold through dealers, representatives, joint ventures, and other channels throughout the world, in more than 100 countries.  These channels are supported by our own offices located in 35 countries around the world.  We also sell products directly to end-users.

We began operations in 1978 and incorporated in California in 1981.  Our common stock has been publicly traded on NASDAQ since 1990 under the symbol TRMB.

Business Strategy

Our growth strategy is centered on multiple elements:

•Focus on attractive markets with significant growth and profitability potential- We focus on large markets historically underserved by technology that offer significant potential for long-term revenue growth, profitability and market leadership.  Our core industries such as construction, agriculture, and transportation markets are each multi-trillion dollar









global industries which operate in increasingly demanding environments with technology adoption in the early phases relative to other industries.  With the emergence of mobile computing capabilities, the increasing technological know-how of end users and compelling return on investment,we believe many of our markets are ripe for substituting Trimble’s technology and solutions in place of traditional operating methods.

•Domain knowledge and technological innovation that benefit a diverse customer baseWe have over time redefined our technological focus from hardware-driven point solutions to integrated work process solutions by developing domain expertise and heavily reinvesting in R&D, capital expenditures and acquisitions. We have been spending approximately 13% of revenue historically on R&D and currently have approximately 1100 unique patents. We intend to continue to leverage our divisional structure to take advantage of our technology portfolio and deep domain knowledge to quickly and cost-effectively deliver specific, targeted solutions to each of the vertical markets we serve.  We look for opportunities where the need for technological change is high and which have a requirement for the integration of multiple technologies into complete vertical solutions.

•Increasing focus on software and services- Software and services are increasingly important elements of our solutions and are core to our growth strategy.  Trimble generally has an open application programming interface (API) philosophy and open vendor environment which leads to increased adoption of our software offerings.   Professional services constitute an additional growth channel that helps our customers integrate and optimize the use of our offerings in their environment.  The increased recurring revenue from these solutions will provide us with enhanced business visibility over time.

•Geographic expansion with localization strategy -We view international expansion as an important element of our strategy and we continue to position ourselves in geographic markets that will serve as important sources of future growth. We currently have a physical presence in over 35 countries and third party representation in over 100 countries.  In 2014, 52% of our sales occurred in countries outside of the U.S.

•Optimized distribution channels to best access our markets- We utilize vertically-focused distribution channels that leverage domain expertise to best serve the needs of individual markets domestically and abroad. These channels include independent dealers, joint ventures, original equipment manufacturers (OEM) sales, and distribution alliances with key partners, such as CNH Global, Caterpillar and Nikon, as well as direct sales to end-users, that provide us with broad market reach and localization capabilities to effectively serve our markets.

•Strategic acquisitions- Organic growth continues to be our primary focus, while acquisitions serve to enhance our market position.  We acquire businesses that bring technology, products, or distribution capabilities that augment our portfolio and allow us to penetrate existing markets more effectively, or to establish a market beachhead.  Our level of success in targeting and effectively integrating acquisitions is an important aspect of our growth strategy.

Business Segments and Markets

We are organized into four reporting segments encompassing our various applications and product lines: Engineering and Construction, Field Solutions, Mobile Solutions and Advanced Devices.  Our segments are distinguished by the markets they serve.  Each segment consists of businesses which are responsible for product development, marketing, sales, strategy and financial performance.

Engineering and Construction

The Engineering and Construction segment primarily serves customers working in architecture, engineering, construction, surveying, natural resources and government.  Within this segment our most substantial product portfolios are focused on heavy civil construction, building construction, and geospatial.

Heavy Civil Construction.Our heavy civil construction products are used in the planning, design, construction and operation/maintenance of civil infrastructure such as roads, railways, airports, land management, power plants and transmission lines.  Our solutions are used across the entire project lifecycle to improve productivity, reduce waste and re-work, and enable more informed decision making through enhanced situational awareness, data flow and project collaboration.  At the same time, our solutions can improve worker safety and reduce environmental impact.  Our suite of integrated solutions and technologies in this area includes field and office software for optimized route selection and design, systems to automatically guide and control construction equipment such as bulldozers, loaders, graders and paving equipment, systems to monitor, track and manage assets, equipment and workers, and software to facilitate the sharing and communication of data in real time.  Together, these solutions are designed to transform how work is done within the heavy civil construction industry.

A key part of our heavy civil construction market portfolio is the Connected Site, which integrates data and information across the entire construction process and across mixed fleets.  This includes data from site positioning and machine control systems, construction asset management equipment and services, and various software applications.  Utilizing wireless and internet-based site communications infrastructure, our Connected Site solutions include the ability to track and control equipment, perform remote machine diagnostics and reduce re-work.  By leveraging the Connected Site technology, contractors gain greater insight into their operations, helping them to lower costs and improve productivity, worker safety, and asset utilization.









To bolster the software solutions we provide to the Connected Site, we formed a joint venture with Caterpillar in October of 2008, called VirtualSite Solutions (VSS).  VSS develops software for fleet management and connected worksite solutions, including subscription-based software as a service solutions.  VSS solutions are part of the Connected Site portfolio, and are sold through a world-wide independent dealer channel under the name of SITECH.  A separate joint venture with Caterpillar, Caterpillar-Trimble Control Technologies (CTCT) was formed in 2002 to develop the next generation of advanced electronic guidance and control products for earthmoving machines.  The joint venture develops machine control and guidance products that use site design information combined with accurate positioning technology to automatically control dozer blades and other machine tools.  Caterpillar generally offers joint venture products as a factory-installed option, while Trimble focuses on the aftermarket with products for mixed fleets of earthmoving machines from Caterpillar and other equipment manufacturers to allow improved management of construction sites and projects.  Effective in January 2014, Caterpillar and Trimble amended the joint ventures and related agreements between the parties to expand the range of productivity applications and services the companies will provide, and to support development of comprehensive unified fleet solutions for the construction industry.

During 2014, we announced a new collaboration with Bentley Systems to provide advanced levels of information mobility in road and site construction.  We introduced the Trimble CCS900 Compaction Control System to improve efficiency in bulk earthworks and landfill compaction.  When using the system, machine operators can make more uniform and efficient passes, report compaction production data in the field, and ensure target compaction is reached with minimal fuel usage and machine wear.  We also announced that the Trimble CenterPoint RTX Correction Service, which provides location accuracy down to four centimeters when used in conjunction with GNSS signals, is now available for heavy civil construction applications.

Building Construction

.

During 2014, we acquired Gehry Technologies, which provides design and project management solutions, consulting services, and project collaboration software tools to enable designers, builders and operators to collaborate more efficiently.  In part as a result of this acquisition, we introduced Trimble Connect, a powerful and promising cloud-based collaboration platform that empowers teams involved in the design, construction, and operation of buildings.  We also acquired London-based Manhattan Software, a leader in the IWMS space, which extends our portfolio of design-build-operate solutions by providing building owners, facilities and real estate managers with integrated, end-to-end systems for property, asset and facilities management.

We continued to extend our portfolio of building construction solutions in 2014.  Our acquisitions in this area include Amtech Group Limited, which provides mechanical, electrical and plumbing specification, design, estimating, procurement, construction management and operation solutions, MAYBIM, which provides 3D BIM software and services to mechanical, electrical and plumbing contractors, and Field 3D, an easy-to-use 3D collaboration software solution for BIM that enables stakeholders in a construction workflow to access complete 3D model information for a building on smartphones and tablets.

During the year, we announced advances in several of our software packages for geospatial analysis and modeling.  These included enhanced point cloud processing and management in Trimble Business Center, which enables users to visualize and edit large point clouds while simultaneously working with high-resolution imagery.  We released Sketchup 2015, adding major enhancements to the world’s most widely used 3D modeling software.  This release includes expansion of the 3D Warehouse, which makes millions of 3D designs available to end users, increased efficiency and interoperability with BIM workflows, and an extension for SketchUp software to enable architects, engineers and geospatial professionals to create models from 3D scanning data collected with Trimble 3D laser scanners.

We announced a major customer win with AECOM, one of the world's largest providers of professional, technical and management support services for transportation, facilities, environment, energy, water and government.  AECOM will deploy multiple solutions from Trimble's design-build-operate software portfolio to improve project workflows, increase visibility and accuracy while enhancing team collaboration for construction projects.









Geospatial.



In 2014 we launched Trimble InSphere, a cloud based software platform which enables surveyors, engineers and geographic information systems (GIS) professionals to centrally manage their activities.InSphere applications include Equipment Manager, Data Manager, Data Marketplace and Trimble TerraFlex.  Users have the ability to track and manage capital assets with Equipment Manager, an online tracking system linking directly with field equipment location.  Data Manager allows users to manage surveying and GIS data in one central location so others may access it at any time from any location and from a mobile device, allowing project tasks to operate in a real time environment.  Data Marketplace allows the user to search and quickly buy additional layers of mapping and survey data to create more robust end deliverables across multiple industries.  Trimble TerraFlex allows GIS data collection across a fleet of mobile smart devices and professional devices to be aggregated into a single cloud hosted map and exported into different enterprise solutions with file formats or standard cloud services. Trimble InSphere provides the necessary tools for GIS field crews as well as survey and engineering firms to manage business operations by providing the information and services needed to make better decisions on how to use resources and assets.

We sell and distribute our products in the Engineering and Construction segment through multiple global networks of independent dealers with expertise and customer relationships in their respective segments, each supported by Trimble personnel.  In 2014, we further expanded our network of SITECH Technology Dealers, which serves the heavy civil construction industry, by adding new dealerships in Poland, northern and northwest Mexico, northeastern Canada, Romania, Ireland, and the United Kingdom, as well as new SITECH locations in the United States for the Midwest, Nebraska, Kansas, Northwestern Missouri and the intermountain region.  In November, we announced that we have established more than one hundred SITECH technology dealers worldwide across all regions, including the Americas, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia, China, and the South Pacific.  We also announced BuildingPoint, an initiative to form a global network of distribution partners to serve the needs of the building construction industry.  As of the end of December 2014, there were three BuildingPoint dealers already in place, in the midwestern US, Texas, and Switzerland.

Competitors in this segment are typically companies that provide optical, laser or GNSS positioning products as well as companies that produce software specific to the construction process. Our principal competitors are Topcon Corporation, Hexagon AB and Autodesk.  We compete principally on the basis of innovative, differentiated products, service, quality, and geographic reach.

Field Solutions

Our Field Solutions segment primarily addresses the agriculture and GIS markets.

Agriculture.Our precision agriculture products consist of guidance and positioning systems, automated application systems and information management solutions that enable farmers to improve crop performance, profitability and environmental quality.  Trimble precision agriculture solutions can assist farmers throughout every step of their farming process, beginning with land preparation and continuing through the planting, nutrient and pest management, and harvesting phases of a crop cycle.  We provide manual and automated navigation guidance for tractors and other farm equipment used in spraying, planting, cultivating, and harvesting applications.  The benefits to the farmer include faster machine operation, higher yields, and lower consumption of fuel and chemicals than conventional equipment.  In addition, we provide solutions to automate application of pesticide and seeding.  Our water solutions help farmers minimize their water costs and distribute water more efficiently, and include applications for leveling agricultural fields for irrigation, aligning drainage systems to better manage water flow in fields, monitoring precipitation, and controlling linear and pivot irrigation systems.

During 2014, we continued to develop our precision agriculture portfolio in a number of areas.  We introduced Trimble OnSwath technology as part of the Autopilot™ automated steering system.  Using OnSwath, the farmer can decrease idle driving time, fuel consumption, soil compaction, crop damage and working time in the field.  We also demonstrated our NextSwath technology,









which enables any farm machine to calculate the best possible path to turn around and approach the next crop row or swath.  In the water management area, we introduced the Trimble Irrigate-IQ precision irrigation solution in North America.  This solution enables farmers to remotely control irrigators via the web, and the Connected Farm Irrigate application enables control of complete pivot irrigation systems on a smartphone or tablet.

Solutions which use data to enhance farm productivity are an increasing focus in our agriculture business.  Our Connected Farm solution transfers data wirelessly between the field and office as well as between vehicles operating in the same field.  Data can be accessed from the cloud to help manage field records, analyze fleet efficiency, and monitor precipitation data on an acre by acre basis.  As a result, farmers make more informed decisions leading to higher yields, better quality crops, increased profitability, and reduced environmental impact.  Connected Farm also enables better collaboration between farmers and their trusted advisors, such as agronomists, on services such as soil and crop health analysis and nutrient management and variable rate application (VRA).

During the year we also continued to add to a set of industry leading agronomic services.  We released the new RainWave® Contour Map precipitation monitoring solution that maps precise rainfall amounts within an entire field or farm.  We also launched Connected Farm Field, a field data management tool for the farmer; and Connected Farm Advisor, a field data management tool for the farmer's trusted advisor.  The two applications make it easier to collect and manage data and easily collaborate through Connected Farm.  We extended our Connected Farm solution to include a new agronomic service, the Soil Information System, which provides farmers with in-depth 3-D soil data to support more informed decisions about crop production goals.

With the release of Trimble PurePixel Precision Vegetation Health Solution, we provide processing of multi-spectral crop images.  The system delivers a color-coded visual representation of a field’s crop health or maturity level, enabling farmers and their trusted advisers to be more efficient in locating, identifying and solving crop production issues.  In 2014 we added the Trimble UX5 unmanned aircraft system to our portfolio.  When used for aerial imaging and mapping, the UX5 enables service providers to capture aerial images for scouting and monitoring crop health, and detecting pests, weeds and nitrogen deficiencies.  In December we announced that the Federal Aviation Administration has granted an exemption that will allow us to conduct commercial operation of our UX5 solution in the U.S.

We also added to our agriculture product portfolio via acquisitions.  In 2014 we acquired IRON Solutions, which provides market information, analytics-based intelligence and a cloud-based enterprise system to improve dealer and producer productivity, and C3 Consulting, a provider of unique soil information as well as decision recommendations to farmers' trusted advisors, such as agronomists, Trimble resellers or agricultural retail suppliers.

We use multiple distribution approaches to access the agricultural market, including independent dealers and direct selling to enterprise accounts.  A significant portion of our sales are through CNH Global and affiliated dealer networks.  Competitors in this market are vertically integrated farm equipment and implement companies such as John Deere and agricultural instrumentation companies such as Raven and Ag Junction.  As we expand our business in agronomic services and data oriented applications, we expect to increasingly compete with major input suppliers such as Monsanto.  We compete principally on the basis of robust performance, ease of use, price, interoperability, interconnectedness and the completeness of our solutions.

Geographic Information Systems.Our GIS product line provides trustworthy systems to collect authoritative field data and integrate that data into GIS databases.  Our handheld data collection systems allow users to quickly log positions and descriptive information about their assets, ensure the integrity and accuracy of GIS information and ultimately, enable better decision-making.  Through a combination of wireless technologies and software solutions, fieldwork results are seamlessly delivered to the back-office GIS, and mobile workers can also access GIS information remotely.  This capability provides significant advantages to users including improved productivity, accuracy and access to information in the field.

Our 2014 launch of Trimble InSphere also supports the enhancement of our GIS offerings.   InSphere integrates data from the GIS data collection products as well as survey data collection to enhance interoperability between the two major types of data that are relevant to GIS markets.  We launched a number of hardware devices with enhanced functionality and GNSS accuracy for data collection and enhanced our software solutions to support greater workflow integration with other GIS systems. In 2014 we acquired WeoGeo, a provider of technology for managing spatial data and selling different data types using an online marketplace.

Primary markets for our GIS products and solutions include both governmental and commercial users.  Distribution for GIS products is primarily through a network of independent dealers and business partners, supported by Trimble personnel.  Competitors in this market are typically survey instrument companies utilizing GNSS technology such as Topcon and Leica.  We compete principally on the basis of robust performance, ease of use, price, interoperability and interconnectedness.









Mobile Solutions

Our Mobile Solutions segment primarily consists of two businesses, Transportation and Logistics and Field Service Management.

Transportation and Logistics.In the transportation and logistics market, we offer a suite of solutions marketed under the Trimble, PeopleNet, GEOTrac, TMW and ALK Technologies brands.  Together, this range of products provides a comprehensive fleet and transportation management, analytics, routing, mapping, and reporting solution to enable the transportation and logistics industry to achieve greater overall fleet performance while ensuring regulatory compliance.  Our fleet productivity and enterprise software offerings are comprised primarily of the PeopleNet, TMW, Vusion, PC*Miler, CoPilot and FleetWorks mobile platforms.  Our enterprise strategy focuses on sales to large enterprise accounts with more than 1,000 vehicles or routes.  In addition to Trimble-hosted solutions, we also integrate our applications and services directly into the customer’s IT infrastructure.

Field Services Management.Trimble’s Field Service Management offerings provide owners and operators of fleets of vehicles, such as service vehicles, with visibility into field and fleet operations so they can increase efficiency and productivity.  The Field Service Management suite includes applications for fleet management, work management and scheduling, worker safety and mobility that improve the effectiveness of work, workers and assets in the field. This cloud-based portfolio allows Trimble to offer customers industry-specific, enterprise-level solutions for enhanced performance and ease of use.  Our market strategy targets opportunities in specific vertical markets where we believe we can provide unique value to the end-user by tailoring our solutions.  Major markets include telecommunications, utilities, mobile workers, construction logistics, forestry, public safety, and oil and gas.

In 2014, we introduced a new cloud-based platform for field service management called Trimble Horizon.  Trimble Horizon offers customers an extensible platform allowing them to rely on Trimble as a single provider for all their mobile worker needs.

The Mobile Solutions segment generally sells directly to end-users.  Sales cycles tend to be long due to field trials followed by an extensive decision-making process.  Key competitors in this segment include Omnitracs, Fleetmatics, Teletrac, and McLeod, among others.  We compete principally on the basis of interconnectedness, customer support and service, price, innovative product offerings, quality, and provision of a complete solution.

Advanced Devices

Advanced Devices includes the product lines from our Embedded Technologies, Timing, Applanix, Trimble Outdoors, Military and Advanced Systems (MAS), and ThingMagic businesses.  With the exception of Trimble Outdoors and Applanix, these businesses share several common characteristics: they are hardware centric, generally market to OEMs, system integrators and service providers, and have products that can be utilized in a number of different end user markets and applications.  The various operations that comprise this segment were aggregated on the basis that these operations, taken as a whole, do not exceed 10% of our total revenue, operating income or assets.

Within Embedded Technologies and Timing, we supply GNSS modules, licensing and complementary technologies, and GNSS-integrated sub-system solutions for applications requiring precise position, time or frequency.  Embedded Technologies and Timing serve a broad range of vertical markets including telecommunications, automotive electronics, and commercial electronics.  Sales are made directly to OEMs, system integrators, value-added resellers and service providers who incorporate our components into









a complete system-level solution.  Competitors in this market include Microsemi and u-blox.  We compete principally on the basis of product performance, price and quality.

Our MAS business supplies GPS receivers and embedded modules that use the military’s advanced GPS capabilities.  The modules are principally used in aircraft navigation and timing applications.  Military products are sold directly to either the U.S. government or defense contractors.  Sales are also made to authorized foreign end-users.  Competitors in this market include Rockwell Collins, L3 and Raytheon.

Our Trimble Outdoors business utilizes GPS-enabled smartphones, desktop mapping software, and printed map services to provide information for outdoor recreational and light professional activities.  Trimble Outdoors products are used in hiking, hunting, fishing, and professional activities such as emergency search and rescue and natural resource management.  Consumers purchase the Trimble Outdoors product from smartphone channels which include the Apple iTunes and Google Play stores, direct from Trimble Outdoors family of Web outlets, and through consumer reseller channels.  Competitors in this market include Alltrails and Motion X.  We compete principally on the basis of price, innovative products and ease of use.

Our Applanix business is a leading provider of advanced products and enabling solutions that maximize productivity through mobile mapping and positioning to professional markets worldwide.  Applanix develops, manufactures, sells, and supports high-value, precision products that combine GNSS with inertial sensors for accurate measurement of position and attitude, flight management systems, and scalable mobile mapping solutions used in airborne, land, and marine applications.  Sales are made by our direct sales force to end-users, systems integrators, and OEMs, and through regional agents.  Competitors include OxTS, IGI and Novatel.  We compete principally on the basis of product features, performance and domain knowledge.

Our ThingMagic business is a provider of Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) reader modules, finished/fixed-position RFID readers and design services.  ThingMagic RFID readers support demanding high-volume applications deployed by some of the world’s largest industrial automation firms, manufacturers, healthcare organizations, retailers and consumer companies.  ThingMagic consulting, design and development services assist customers with the integration of auto-identification and sensing technologies into everyday products and solutions.  Sales of our ThingMagic products are made directly to OEMs, system integrators, value-added resellers and solution providers who incorporate our technology into point products or complete system-level solutions.  Competitors include Impinj, Caen and NordicID.  We compete principally on the basis of product performance and quality.

Patents, Licenses and Intellectual Property

We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws.  We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate.  We hold approximately 1100 unique issued and enforceable patents, the majority of which cover GNSS based technologies and other applications such as optical and laser technology.  We are not dependent on any one patent.  We also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of Trimble and its products and services globally.  We prefer to own the intellectual property used in our products, either directly or through subsidiaries.  From time to time we license technology from third parties.

Competition

Our markets are highly competitive and we expect that both direct and indirect competition will increase in the future.  Within each of our markets, we encounter direct competition from other GNSS, software, optical and laser suppliers such as Hexagon and Topcon, and competition may intensify from various larger U.S. and non-U.S. competitors.  Our hardware products are increasingly subject to competition from existing and new entrants from emerging markets such as China, which compete aggressively on price at the lower priced end of the market.  Our integrated hardware and software products may also be subject to increasing competition from mass market devices such as smartphones and tablets combined with relatively inexpensive applications, which have not been heavily used for commercial applications in the past.

Many of our products and solutions are focused on specific industries.  In each of these industries we face competition from  companies providing point solutions or more traditional, less technology intensive products and services, which often have greater financial resources and more established and recognized brands in those industries.  Competing in vertical markets with these more established industry participants requires that we successfully establish a market position and market new and sometimes unfamiliar technology and automated solutions to customers that have not previously used such products.   We also increasingly offer enterprise level solutions designed to meet the specific needs of our target industries.  In doing so, we face competition from larger and more well established providers of enterprise software and services with whom we have not previously competed. See also "Risk Factors - We face substantial competition in our markets which could decrease our revenue and growth rates or impair our operating results and financial condition."









Sales and Marketing

We tailor our distribution to the needs of our products and regional markets around the world.  Most of our products are sold worldwide primarily through indirect channels, including distributors, dealers and authorized representatives. Occasionally we grant exclusive rights to market certain products within specific countries.  These channels are supported by our regional sales offices throughout the world.  We also utilize distribution alliances, OEM relationships, and joint ventures with other companies as a means to serve selected markets, as well as direct sales to end-users.

During fiscal 2014, sales to customers in the United States represented 48%, Europe represented 24%, Asia Pacific represented 14%, and other regions represented 14% of our total revenue.

Seasonality of Business

Construction purchases tend to occur in early spring, and U.S. governmental agencies tend to utilize funds available at the end of the government’s fiscal year for additional purchases at the end of our third fiscal quarter in September of each year.   Our agricultural equipment business revenues have historically been the highest in the first quarter, followed by the second quarter, reflecting buying in anticipation of the spring planting season in the Northern hemisphere. However, overall as a company, as a result of diversification of our business across segments and the increased impact of subscription revenues, we may experience less seasonality in the future.



Backlog

In most of our markets, the time between order placement and shipment is short.  Orders are generally placed by resellers and customers on an as-needed basis.  In general, customers may cancel or reschedule orders without penalty.  For these reasons, we do not believe that backlog is a meaningful indicator of future revenue or material to understanding our business.

Manufacturing

Manufacturing of many of our GNSS products is subcontracted to Flextronics International Limited in Mexico.  We utilize Flextronics for Survey, Field Solutions and Mobile Solutions products.  We utilize Benchmark Electronics Inc. in China for our Embedded Technologies and Timing  products.  We utilize Jabil Mexico for our Construction and Mobile Solutions products.  Our contract manufacturing partners are responsible for significant material procurement, assembly and testing.  We continue to manage product design through pilot production for the subcontracted products, and we are directly involved in qualifying suppliers and key components used in all our products.  Our current contract with Flextronics continues in effect until either party gives the other ninety days written notice.  We also utilize original design manufacturers for some of our products.

We manufacture our laser and optics-based products, as well as some of our GNSS products, at our plants in Dayton, Ohio; Danderyd, Sweden and Shanghai, China.  Some of these products or portions of these products are also subcontracted to third parties for assembly.

Our design manufacturing and distribution sites in Dayton, Ohio; Sunnyvale, California; Danderyd, Sweden; Eersel, Netherlands and Shanghai, China are registered to ISO9001:2000, covering the design, production, distribution, and servicing of all our products.

Research and Development

We believe that our competitive position is maintained through the development and introduction of new products and services that incorporate improved features and functionality, better performance, smaller size and weight, lower cost, or some combination of these factors.  We invest substantially in the development of new products.  We also make significant investment in the positioning, communication and information technologies that underlie our products and will likely provide competitive advantages.

Our research and development expenditures, net of reimbursed amounts were $318.0 million for fiscal 2014, representing approximately 13% of revenue.

We expect to continue investing in research and development at a rate consistent with our past, with the goal of maintaining or improving our competitive position, and entering new markets.

Employees

At the end of fiscal 2014, we employed 8,217 employees, including 18% in manufacturing, 33% in engineering, 37% in sales and marketing, and 12% in general and administrative positions.  Approximately 53% of employees are in locations outside the United States.









Some employees in Sweden and Finland are represented by unions.  Some employees in Germany and France are represented by works councils.  We also employ temporary and contract personnel that are not included in the above headcount numbers.  We have not experienced work stoppages or similar labor actions.

Available Information

The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on the Company’s web site throughinvestor.trimble.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Financial news and reports and related information about our company as well as non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations can also be found on this web site. Information contained on our web site is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (excluding exhibits) at no cost by writing or telephoning us at our principal executive offices at the following address or telephone number:

Trimble Navigation Limited

935 Stewart Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94085

Attention: Investor Relations Telephone: 408-481-8000

Executive Officers

The names, ages and positions of the Company’s executive officers as of February 20, 2015 are as follows:



NameAgePositionSteven W. Berglund63President and Chief Executive OfficerFrançois Delépine52Chief Financial OfficerBryn A. Fosburgh52Vice PresidentChristopher W. Gibson53Vice PresidentMark A. Harrington59Vice PresidentJürgen D. Kliem57Vice PresidentJames A. Kirkland55Vice President and General CounselJulie A. Shepard57Vice President, FinanceJames A. Veneziano53Vice President

Steven W. Berglund—Steven Berglund has served as president and chief executive officer of Trimble since March 1999. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Berglund was president of Spectra Precision, a group within Spectra Physics AB. Mr. Berglund’s business experience includes a variety of senior leadership positions with Spectra Physics, and manufacturing and planning roles at Varian Associates.  He began his career as a process engineer at Eastman Kodak. He attended the University of Oslo and the University of  Minnesota where he received a B.S. in chemical engineering. Mr. Berglund received his M.B.A. from the University of  Rochester. Mr. Berglund is  a member of the board of directors of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group and of the board of trustees of World Educational Services.  He is also a member of the construction sector board of the Association of Equipment Manufacturers.  In December 2013, Mr. Berglund was appointed to the board of directors and compensation committee of Belden Inc., a global provider of end-to-end signal transmission solutions.

François Delépine—François Delépine joined Trimble as chief financial officer in January 2014. He is responsible for Trimble’s worldwide finance operations.  Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Delépine served as chief financial officer, global business units at VMware, Inc., a provider of business infrastructure virtualization solutions.  From August 2010 until June 2013, he served as VMware’s vice president of finance.  Between April 2009 and July 2010, Mr. Delépine served as vice president of finance of Palm, Inc., a smartphone technology company.  Prior to that, he was vice president of financial planning and analysis at Google Inc..  Mr. Delépine has also held senior operating and financial roles at a variety of technology companies including Hyperion and Apple. Mr. Delépine holds  a B.S. in Industrial Engineering from the Institut Catholique d'Arts et Métiers in Lille, France and an MBA from the Anderson School of Business at UCLA.

Bryn A. Fosburgh—Bryn Fosburgh currently serves as a sector vice president for Trimble's heavy and highway and building construction businesses, which include the Trimble Buildings Group, and the Caterpillar and Hilti-related joint ventures. From









2009 to 2010, Mr. Fosburgh served as vice president for Trimble's Construction Division, with responsibility for a number of corporate functions and geographical regions. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Fosburgh was vice president for Trimble's Construction and Agriculture Divisions, and from 2005 to 2007, Mr. Fosburgh served as vice president and general manager of Trimble's Engineering and Construction Division. Mr. Fosburgh joined Trimble in 1994 and has held numerous roles, including vice president and general manager for Trimble's geomatics and engineering division, and division vice president of survey and infrastructure. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Fosburgh was a civil engineer and also held various positions for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Defense Mapping Agency. Mr. Fosburgh received a B.S. in geology from the University of Wisconsin in Green Bay in 1985 and an M.S. from the school of civil engineering at Purdue University in 1989.

Christopher W. Gibson—Christopher Gibson currently serves as vice president for Trimble's Survey, Geospatial, GIS, Infrastructure, Rail, Land Administration and Environmental Solutions businesses.  Mr. Gibson joined Trimble in 1998 as European finance and operations director. In 2009, he was appointed to serve as vice president responsible for Trimble’s Survey Division, and in December 2010, those responsibilities were expanded to include oversight of geographic regions and divisions, including Building Construction, Construction Tools, and the Hilti joint venture. From 2008 to 2009, Mr. Gibson served as the general manager for the Survey Division, and from 2005 to 2008, he was general manager for the Global Services Division. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Gibson’s business experience includes a number of financial management roles with Tandem Computers, and financial analyst roles with Unilever subsidiaries. Mr. Gibson received a BA in Business Studies in 1985 from Thames Polytechnic, now the University of Greenwich, and was admitted as a Fellow to the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants in 1994.

Mark A. Harrington—Mark Harrington has served as a vice president of Trimble since 2004, and currently serves as vice president for Trimble's Agriculture, Forestry, Water and Energy Utilities and Public Safety Divisions, with responsibility for several corporate functions and geographical regions. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Harrington served as vice president for Trimble's Survey and Mapping and GIS Divisions, and from 2004 to 2007, he served as vice president of strategy and business development. Prior to Trimble, Mr. Harrington served as vice president of finance at Finisar Corporation, chief financial officer for Cielo Communications, Inc., and Vixel Corporation, vice president of finance for Spectra-Physics Lasers, Inc. and vice president of finance for Spectra-Physics Analytical, Inc. Mr. Harrington began his career at Varian Associates, Inc. Mr. Harrington received his B.S. in Business Administration from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.

Jürgen D. Kliem—Jürgen Kliem currently serves as vice president for several businesses within the Advanced Devices segment, and is also responsible for various corporate functions, including key accounts and government funded projects. Mr. Kliem previously served as vice president of strategy and business development from 2008 until 2012. From 2002 to 2008, Mr. Kliem served as general manager of Trimble's Survey Division, and prior to that, Mr. Kliem was responsible for Trimble's Engineering and Construction Division in Europe. Mr. Kliem held various leadership roles at Spectra Precision, which was acquired by Trimble, and at Geotronics, a company acquired by Spectra Precision. Before joining Geotronics, Mr. Kliem worked in a privately-held surveying firm addressing cadastral, construction, plant and engineering projects. Mr. Kliem received a Diplom Ingenieur degree from the University of Essen, Germany in 1982.

James A. Kirkland—James Kirkland joined Trimble as vice president and general counsel in July 2008.  Prior to joining Trimble, he served as general counsel and executive vice president, strategic development at Covad Communications.  Mr. Kirkland also served as senior vice president of spectrum development and general counsel at Clearwire Technologies, Inc.  Mr. Kirkland began his career in 1984 as an associate at Mintz Levin and in 1992 he was promoted to partner.  Mr. Kirkland received his BA from Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. in 1981 and his J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1984.

Julie A. Shepard—Julie Shepard joined Trimble in December of 2006 as vice president of finance, and was appointed principal accounting officer in May 2007. Prior to joining Trimble, Ms. Shepard served as vice president of finance and corporate controller at Quantum Corporation.  Ms. Shepard brings with her over 25 years of experience in a broad range of finance roles, with diverse experience ranging from early stage private equity backed technology companies to large multinational corporations.   Ms. Shepard began her career at Price Waterhouse and is a Certified Public Accountant. She received a B.S in Accounting from California State University.   She is a member of the AICPA, Financial Executive Institute and the California Society of CPAs.

James A. Veneziano—James Veneziano has served as a vice president of Trimble since 2009 and is currently responsible for Trimble's Mobile Solutions, Data Services and Hosting, Global Services and portions of the Advanced Devices segment. Mr. Veneziano joined Trimble in 1990 as a manufacturing engineer in the Company's Operations group. In 1993, he was appointed director of Operations. In 1998, Mr. Veneziano was appointed director of marketing for Agriculture and Mapping and GIS. From 2000 to 2005, Mr. Veneziano served as the general manager of Trimble's Agriculture business. From 2005 to 2009, he was the general manager of Trimble's Construction business. Prior to joining Trimble, Mr. Veneziano worked for Hewlett-Packard in a variety of manufacturing positions including development engineer and engineering supervisor as well as new product introduction manager. He received a B.S. in electrical engineering from Colorado State University in Fort Collins in 1984.













