
10-K
FORM 10-K W.W. GRAINGER, INC.


                                                              116 PAGES COMPLETE


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
                                  ANNUAL REPORT


                                   (Mark One)
       [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
                                       OR
     [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                          Commission File Number 1-5684
                               W.W. Grainger, Inc.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


         Illinois                                                36-1150280
(State or other jurisdiction of                               (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                              Identification No.)
          455 Knightsbridge Parkway, Lincolnshire, Illinois 60069-3620
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number including area code:  847/793-9030



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                    Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock $0.50 par value,          New York Stock Exchange
and accompanying Preferred Stock       Chicago Stock Exchange
Purchase Rights

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                                              Yes ___X____      No ________

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy of information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. ( )

The  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
registrant  was  $3,283,966,623  as of the  close  of  trading  reported  on the
Consolidated Transaction Reporting System on March 1, 1999.



                    APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of
common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

Common Stock $0.50 par value   93,315,991 shares outstanding as of March 1, 1999



                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the proxy  statement  relating to the annual meeting of shareholders
of the  registrant  to be held on April 28, 1999 are  incorporated  by reference
into Part III hereof.

The Exhibit Index appears on page 15 in the sequential numbering system.


(The Securities and Exchange  Commission has not approved or disapproved of this
report nor has it passed on the accuracy or adequacy hereof.)










                                     PART I
Item 1: Business

The Company

The registrant,  W.W. Grainger,  Inc., was incorporated in the State of Illinois
in 1928. It is the leading North American provider of maintenance,  repair,  and
operating (MRO) supplies,  services,  and related  information to businesses and
institutions.  W.W.  Grainger,  Inc.  regards  itself  as being  in the  service
business.  As used  herein,  "Company"  means W.W.  Grainger,  Inc.,  and/or its
subsidiaries as the context may require.

In late  1997,  the  Company  began  an  organizational  restructuring  with the
formation  of several  business  operations.  Several of these  operations  were
originally part of the Grainger  branch-based  business.  In addition,  Grainger
Integrated  Supply  began  refocusing  on serving  customers  through  materials
management  service  contracts.  These changes were made to create greater focus
and accountability in serving the diverse needs of the Company's customers. 1998
was a transition year in establishing the refocused organization.

The Company offers a breadth of MRO solutions by combining  products,  services,
and information.  It tailors its capabilities  toward the objective of providing
the lowest total cost MRO solution to select customer groups. The Company serves
the diverse needs of its customers through several focused businesses.

The  Branch-based  Distribution  businesses  serve  traditional  customers  with
immediate MRO needs.  The other  businesses of the Company serve  customers with
more  complex  needs  and/or  customers  who  prefer to  purchase  through  less
traditional channels, such as the Internet and direct marketing.

The Company also has a business support function which provides coordination and
guidance in the areas of Accounting, Administrative Services, Aviation, Business
Development,  Communications,  Compensation and Benefits,  Employee Development,
Finance, Government Regulations, Human Resources, Industrial Relations, Investor
Relations,   Insurance  and  Risk  Management,   Internal  Audit,  International
Operations, Legal, Planning, Real Estate and Construction Services, Security and
Safety,  Taxes,  and Treasury  services.  These services are provided in varying
degrees to all of the business units.

A number of  Company-wide  strengths  provide each business with an advantage in
serving  its  market.   These  strengths  include   technology  and  information
management,  supplier  partnerships,  supply chain  integration  skills,  and an
understanding  of the customers'  MRO  environments.  The Company's  efforts are
guided by two major initiatives to drive growth and provide value:

o     Create  focused  businesses  to serve  customer  needs and find new growth
      opportunities within existing businesses.
o     Develop and embrace new technologies that strengthen the Company's current
      capabilities and help drive the future of the MRO marketplace.

The  Company  does not  engage  in basic or  substantive  product  research  and
development  activities.  New items are added regularly to the Company's product
lines on the  basis of market  information,  recommendations  of its  employees,
customers,  and  suppliers,  and  other  factors.  The  Company's  research  and
development, instead, are focused on new methods of serving customers.

For a discussion of the Year 2000 issue,  see "Item 7:  Management's  Discussion
and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and the Results of  Operations"  appearing
later in this report.

Branch-based Distribution Businesses

The  Company's  Branch-based  Distribution  businesses  provide  customers  with
solutions to their  immediate  MRO needs  throughout  North  America.  Logistics
networks  are  configured  for  rapid  availability.  A broad  selection  of MRO
products is offered at local branches through user-friendly catalogs and via the
Internet. The Branch-based  Distribution  businesses include Grainger Industrial
Supply, Acklands-Grainger Inc., Grainger Parts, Grainger, S.A. de C.V.,
Puerto Rico, Grainger Export, and Grainger Global Sourcing.

Grainger Industrial Supply
- ---------------------------
The focus of  Grainger  Industrial  Supply is to  provide  a  broad-line  of MRO
products  quickly and easily to American  businesses  of all sizes.  Its primary
customers are small and medium-sized  companies.  It also addresses  large-sized
companies' immediate MRO needs.

Grainger  Industrial  Supply  operates  349  branches  in all 50  states.  These
branches are located  within 20 minutes of the majority of U.S.  businesses  and
carry inventory to support their local market needs.  Products are available for
immediate pick-up, same-day shipment, or delivery.


An average branch has 15 employees and handles about 280  transactions  per day.
During  1998,  an  average  of  approximately  98,100  sales  transactions  were
completed daily.  Each branch tailors its inventory to local product demand.  In
1998,  Grainger Industrial Supply invested more than $8,900,000 in new branches,
relocations,  and additions to branches.  Three new branches were opened,  seven
were relocated,  and a number of remodeling  projects were completed  during the
year.

Grainger  Industrial  Supply  has  six  Zone  Distribution   Centers  (ZDCs)  in
operation.  The ZDC logistics network provides a break-bulk  function for faster
branch stock  replenishment.  In addition,  ZDCs handle  shipped  orders for all
branches located in their zone.

Large  computer  controlled  stocks,   which  are  maintained  at  two  Regional
Distribution Centers (RDCs),  located in Greenville County, South Carolina,  and
Kansas City, Missouri,  and a National  Distribution Center (NDC) located in the
Chicago area,  provide the branches and customers with some  protection  against
variable demand and delayed factory deliveries. The NDC is a centralized storage
and shipping facility  servicing the entire network with slower moving inventory
items.

During 1998,  Grainger  Industrial  Supply began its conversion  from its legacy
systems to a new business  enterprise system. This conversion will continue into
1999.

Grainger  Industrial  Supply sells  principally to  contractors,  service shops,
industrial  and  commercial  maintenance  departments,   manufacturers,  hotels,
government,  and health  care and  educational  facilities.  Sales  transactions
during  1998 were made to more than  1,300,000  customers.  Grainger  Industrial
Supply estimates that approximately 24% of 1998 sales consisted of items bearing
the Company's registered  trademarks,  including DAYTON(R) (principally electric
motors, heating and ventilation equipment), TEEL(R) (liquid pumps), SPEEDAIRE(R)
(air compressors),  AirHandler(R) (air filtration equipment), DEM-KOTE(R) (spray
paints),  WESTWARD(R) (hand and power tools),  and LUMAPRO(TM) (task and outdoor
lighting),  as well as other trademarks.  The Company has taken steps to protect
these  trademarks  against  infringement  and  believes  that they  will  remain
available for future use in its  business.  Sales of remaining  items  generally
consisted of other well recognized brands.

Grainger  Industrial  Supply's marketing programs had important changes in 1998.
Now, all marketing  resources are integrated to achieve  maximum  results during
each  promotion.   Sales  calls,  phone  sales,  branch  merchandising,   direct
marketing, and advertising are all focused around the overall marketing program.

The Grainger Industrial Supply Catalog offers more than 81,000 MRO products from
more than  1,000  suppliers,  most of whom are  manufacturers.  Approximately  2
million  copies of the catalog are printed  and  distributed.  The most  current
edition was issued in January 1999. The largest  supplier in 1998, a diversified
manufacturer through 20 of its divisions,  accounted for 10.8% of purchases.  No
significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply.

The  Grainger  Industrial  Supply  Electronic  Catalog  brings,  directly to the
customer's place of business,  a fast, easy way to select products.  Through the
Electronic Catalog,  the customer can use a variety of ways to describe a needed
product,  and then review Grainger Industrial Supply's offerings,  complete with
specifications,   prices,  and  pictures.  Another  Electronic  Catalog  feature
includes a  cross-reference  function that allows  customers to retrieve product
information  using  their own stock  numbers.  More than  350,000  copies of the
current version of the Electronic Catalog have been distributed.  The Electronic
Catalog  is also used at the  branches  as a training  tool and a  resource  for
identifying appropriate products for customers' applications.

The Internet is an important growth initiative for Grainger  Industrial  Supply.
Access to Grainger  Industrial  Supply 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, is a major
convenience for many customers.

Acklands-Grainger Inc. (AGI)
- ----------------------------
AGI, acquired in December 1996, is the leading branch-based  Canadian broad line
MRO  distributor.  It serves  customers  through 180 branches and 6 distribution
centers across Canada. AGI distributes tools,  lighting,  HVAC, safety supplies,
pneumatics,  instruments,  welding  equipment  and  supplies,  motors,  and shop
equipment,  as well as many  other  items.  A  comprehensive  catalog is used to
showcase the product line and to help customers select  products.  This catalog,
with  over  70,000   products   listed,   supports  the  efforts  of  268  sales
representatives  throughout  Canada.  A French  language  catalog was introduced
during 1998. During 1998, an average of 17,800 sales transactions were completed
daily.



Grainger Parts
- --------------
Grainger Parts provides access to over 250,000 parts and accessories through its
centralized  warehouse  located in Northbrook,  Illinois.  Over 180,000 pages of
parts diagrams are maintained  on-line.  Grainger Parts handled about  1,800,000
customer  calls in 1998  through its call  centers in  Northbrook,  Illinois and
Waterloo, Iowa.

Grainger Parts maintained its ISO 9002  certification  in 1998.  Grainger Parts'
100%  compliance  with ISO 9002  standards  ranked them among the top 10% of all
ISO-certified companies.

Grainger, S.A. de C.V.
- ----------------------
Grainger,  S.A. de C.V. serves the traditional MRO product needs of customers in
Mexico.  The business  employed 66 sales  representatives  at December 31, 1998.
From its 80,000 square foot facility outside  Monterrey,  the business  provides
rapid delivery of over 60,000 products throughout Mexico.

Grainger Global Sourcing
- ------------------------
Grainger Global Sourcing procures  competitively  priced,  high quality products
sourced outside the United States.  These items are sold primarily under private
label by Grainger Industrial Supply and the Company's other businesses. Products
obtained through Grainger Global Sourcing in 1998 include  WESTWARD(R) tools and
LUMAPRO(TM) lighting products.

Other Business Units

While some larger  companies have immediate MRO needs that can be handled by the
Company's  Branch-based  Distribution  businesses,  many also require integrated
supply or commodity  management services to handle their more complex purchasing
and operating  environments.  In addition,  as  technology  advances and the MRO
marketplace  evolves,  some customers are choosing to buy products  through less
traditional  channels  such as the  Internet  and  direct  marketing.  For these
customers,  the Company offers a number of solutions.  These businesses  include
Grainger Custom  Solutions,  Grainger  Integrated  Supply,  Grainger  Consulting
Services, Internet Commerce, and Lab Safety Supply, Inc.

Grainger Custom Solutions
- -------------------------
Grainger Custom Solutions was formed in 1998 and serves large customers that are
looking to businesses to manage entire MRO product  categories.  Many  companies
are looking for some of the benefits of integrated supply, but are not ready for
a total outsourcing solution or on-site management services.

Grainger  Custom  Solutions  offers  customers  management  of six major product
categories,  along with access to the other broad  product  lines from  Grainger
Industrial  Supply.  Customers are  guaranteed  specific cost  reductions,  with
incentives for both them and Grainger Custom Solutions if targets are exceeded.

In 1998,  the business  began  operating two call centers and four  distribution
centers.  Grainger Custom Solution's  customers'  additional broad product needs
are fulfilled through the Grainger Industrial Supply branch system.

Grainger Integrated Supply
- --------------------------
Grainger  Integrated Supply is focused on customers who have chosen to outsource
their entire  indirect  materials  management  process.  By  retaining  Grainger
Integrated Supply for this purpose, these organizations are better able to focus
on their core business objectives and improve their global competitiveness.

Grainger  Integrated  Supply  offers a full  complement  of on-site  outsourcing
solutions,  including  business  process  reengineering,  inventory  management,
supply chain  management,  tool crib  management,  and  information  management.
Grainger  Integrated  Supply  provides  its  clients  with access to millions of
products  through  its  relationships  with world class  manufacturers,  service
providers, and distributors,  including Grainger Industrial Supply. Products not
covered  through  these  partnerships  are  found  through  Grainger  Integrated
Supply's product sourcing process.

Grainger Consulting Services
- ----------------------------
Many  customers  realize  that  they  are not  effectively  managing  their  MRO
procurement  process,  but are not sure what  approach  to take to  improve  the
process.  Grainger Consulting Services is a leading  professional  services firm
specializing in MRO materials management consulting.

Grainger Consulting  Services provides the expertise and professional  resources
that help  clients  address  indirect  materials  management  issues and improve
operating efficiencies, productivity, and asset utilization. The business offers
consulting  services which include  process  reengineering,  inventory  database
development, and "turn-key" stockroom set up.



Internet Commerce
- -----------------
The  Company's  product   information   content,   relationships   with  leading
manufacturers  and  distributors,  and  access  to  over  two  million  business
customers position the Company uniquely to benefit from Internet  commerce.  The
Grainger.com site was one of the first MRO Web sites. In 1998, Internet Commerce
continued to invest to increase its Internet  presence.  New  functionality  for
Grainger.com  included  the  introduction  of  CasterMatch(SM),  another  in the
Company's  MatchMaker(SM)  series and a new, more powerful search capability was
added.  Grainger.com  also began  accepting  credit card  purchases in 1998. The
Company was pleased to have  Grainger.com  once again be named among the top ten
business-to-business  Internet sites in the world by Advertising  Age's Business
Marketing Magazine.

In February 1999, the Company announced  OrderZone.com by Grainger,  an Internet
marketplace  where  customers  can  buy  products  from a  number  of  different
suppliers  using a single  site.  The Company has brought six  industry  leaders
together to create a  one-stop,  on-line,  business-to-business  service for the
procurement  of a wide  variety of products  and  services.  OrderZone.com  is a
powerful,  easy,  and convenient  solution for businesses  looking to streamline
their  procurement  process.  Internet  Commerce applied its expertise to create
this Internet-based multi-distributor site. Customers can search across products
from a number  of  leading  complementary  distributors.  A single  order can be
placed  across  multiple  distributors,  and  customers  will  receive  a single
invoice.  Currently  in test  market,  OrderZone.com  is  expected  to open  for
business later in 1999.

Lab Safety Supply, Inc.
- -----------------------
Lab Safety  Supply is a leading  direct  marketer of safety  products  and other
industrial supplies to U.S. businesses.  Located in Janesville,  Wisconsin,  Lab
Safety  Supply  reaches its  customers  through its  General  Catalog,  targeted
catalogs,  and other marketing  materials  which are distributed  throughout the
year.

Customers select Lab Safety Supply for its extensive  product depth (over 50,000
products in the 1999 General Catalog), its superior technical knowledge, and its
excellent  service.  It  is  a  primary  safety  supplier  for  many  small  and
medium-sized  companies and a critical  safety back-up  supplier for many larger
companies.

Industry Segments
The  Company  has  concluded  that  it  has  one  reportable  industry  segment:
Branch-based   Distribution.   For  segment   information   and  the   Company's
consolidated revenue and operating earnings see "Item 7: Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and the Results of Operations," and "Item 8:
Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data." The total assets of the Company
for the last five years were: 1998, $2,103,902,000;  1997, $1,997,821,000; 1996,
$2,119,021,000; 1995, $1,669,243,000; and 1994, $1,534,751,000.

Competition
The Company faces competition in all the markets it serves,  from  manufacturers
(including  some of the Company's own  suppliers)  that sell directly to certain
segments of the market, from wholesale distributors, catalog houses, and certain
retail enterprises.

The principal means by which the Company competes with  manufacturers  and other
distributors is by providing local stocks,  efficient service, account managers,
competitive prices, its several catalogs, which include product descriptions and
in certain cases,  extensive technical and application data, procurement process
consulting services,  utilizing electronic and Internet commerce technology, and
other efforts to assist customers in lowering their total MRO costs. The Company
believes that it can effectively compete on a price basis with its manufacturing
competitors  on small  orders,  but that  such  manufacturers  may  enjoy a cost
advantage in filling large orders.

The Company serves a number of diverse  markets,  and is able in some markets to
reasonably  estimate  the  Company's  competitive  position  within that market.
However,  taken as a whole, the Company is unable to determine its market shares
relative to others engaged in whole or in part in similar activities.

Employees
As of December 31, 1998, the Company had 15,270  employees,  of whom 12,967 were
full-time  and 2,303 were  part-time or  temporary.  The Company has never had a
major work stoppage and considers its employee relations generally to be good.

Item 2: Properties

As of December 31, 1998,  the Company's  facilities  totaled  16,799,000  square
feet, an increase of 2.1% over 1997. The Company's  Grainger  Industrial  Supply
and  Acklands-Grainger  Inc.  (AGI)  businesses  account for the majority of the
Company's  total square  footage.  Grainger  Industrial  Supply  facilities  are
located  throughout  the United States.  AGI  facilities are located  throughout
Canada.


The Company's  Grainger  Industrial  Supply branches range in size from 2,000 to
109,000 square feet and average 22,000 square feet.  Most are located in or near
major metropolitan areas, many in industrial parks. A typical owned branch is on
one floor, is of masonry  construction,  consists  primarily of warehouse space,
contains  an  air-conditioned  office  and sales  area,  and has  off-the-street
parking for customers and employees.  The Company  considers that its properties
are  generally  in good  condition  and well  maintained,  and are  suitable and
adequate to carry on the Company's business.  The significant  facilities of the
Company are briefly described below:


Item 3:  Legal  Proceedings
There are pending  various legal and  administrative  proceedings  involving the
Company that are incidental to the business. It is not expected that the outcome
of any such  proceeding  will have a material  adverse effect upon the Company's
consolidated financial position or its results of operations.

Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
No  matters  were  submitted  to a vote of  security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of 1998.

Executive Officers of the Company
Following is information about the Executive Officers of the Company as of March
1, 1999. Executive Officers of the Company generally serve until the next annual
election of officers, or until earlier resignation or removal.


                                 Positions and Offices Held and Principal
 Name and Age              Occupations and Employment During the Past Five Years
- -------------------------  -----------------------------------------------------
James M. Baisley (66)         Senior Vice President (a position  assumed in 1995
                              after serving as Vice President), General Counsel,
                              and Secretary.

Donald E. Bielinski (49)      Group President,  a position assumed in 1997 after
                              serving as Senior Vice  President,  Marketing  and
                              Sales.   Prior  to  assuming  the   last-mentioned
                              position in 1995, Mr.  Bielinski  served as Senior
                              Vice President,  Organization and Planning. He has
                              also served as Vice President and Chief  Financial
                              Officer.

Wesley M. Clark (46)          Group President,  a position assumed in 1997 after
                              serving as Senior Vice  President,  Operations and
                              Quality.  Prior  to  assuming  the  last-mentioned
                              position earlier in 1997, Mr. Clark served as Vice
                              President,    Field    Operations   and   Quality.
                              Previously, he served as President of the Sanitary
                              Supply and Equipment businesses.

                                                        (continued on next page)


                                 Positions and Offices Held and Principal
 Name and Age              Occupations and Employment During the Past Five Years
- -------------------------  -----------------------------------------------------
Jere D. Fluno (57)            Vice Chairman. Mr. Fluno is a member of the Office
                              of the Chairman.

Gary J. Goberville (52)       Vice President,  Human  Resources.  Before joining
                              the Company in 1995, Mr.  Goberville  served as an
                              executive with GenCorp, Inc.

David W. Grainger (71)        Senior  Chairman of the Board, a position  assumed
                              in 1997 after serving as Chairman of the Board. He
                              was the Company's  Chief  Executive  Officer until
                              1995 and President from 1992 to 1994. Mr. Grainger
                              is a member of the Office of the Chairman.

Richard L. Keyser (56)        Chairman of the Board, a position assumed in 1997,
                              and Chief Executive Officer, a position assumed in
                              1995.  Other  positions in which he served  during
                              the  past  five   years  were   President,   Chief
                              Operating Officer,  Executive Vice President,  and
                              Grainger  Division  President.  Mr.  Keyser  is  a
                              member of the Office of the Chairman.

P. Ogden Loux (56)            Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial
                              Officer,  positions  assumed in 1997 after serving
                              as Vice President,  Finance. Prior to assuming the
                              last-mentioned  position in 1994,  Mr. Loux served
                              the Grainger Division as Vice President,  Business
                              Support.

Robert D. Pappano (56)        Vice President,  Financial  Reporting and Investor
                              Relations,   a  position  assumed  in  1995  after
                              serving as Vice President and Treasurer.

James T. Ryan (40)            Vice President,  Information  Services, a position
                              assumed in 1994 after serving as President,  Parts
                              Company  of  America.   Prior  to   assuming   the
                              last-mentioned  position in 1993,  Mr. Ryan served
                              as Director,  Product  Management  of the Grainger
                              Division.



John A. Schweig (41)          Senior Vice President (a position  assumed in 1997
                              after   serving  as  Vice   President),   Business
                              Development and  International.  Prior to assuming
                              these responsibilities in 1996, Mr. Schweig served
                              as Vice  President  and  General  Manager,  Direct
                              Marketing.  Previously,  he  served  the  Grainger
                              Division as Vice President, Marketing.

John W. Slayton, Jr. (53)     Senior Vice President,  Supply Chain Management, a
                              position  assumed in 1997 after  serving as Senior
                              Vice  President,   Product  Management.  Prior  to
                              assuming the last-mentioned  position in 1995, Mr.
                              Slayton   served   as  Vice   President,   Product
                              Management of the Grainger Division.

                                     PART II

Item 5: Markets for Registrant's  Common Equity and Related  Shareholder Matters
The  Company's  common  stock is traded on the New York Stock  Exchange  and the
Chicago  Stock  Exchange,  with the ticker  symbol  GWW.  The high and low sales
prices  for the  common  stock,  and the  dividends  declared  and paid for each
calendar  quarter  during 1998 and 1997,  as  adjusted to reflect the  Company's
2-for-1 stock split effective May 11, 1998, are shown below.

                                     Prices                      
                          ----------------------------
         Quarters            High               Low              Dividends
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1998     First             $51 13/16           $46 1/2               $0.135
         Second            54 23/32            49 1/8                  0.15
         Third             51 13/16            39 3/16                 0.15
         Fourth            47                  36 7/16                 0.15
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Year              $54 23/32           $36 7/16              $0.585
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1997     First             $41 1/4             $36 13/16             $0.125
         Second            40 1/2              35 1/4                 0.135
         Third             49 7/8              39                     0.135
         Fourth            49 9/32             42 5/8                 0.135
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Year              $49 7/8             $35 1/4                $0.53
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------



The approximate  number of shareholders of record of the Company's  common stock
as of March 1,1999 was 1,800.



Item 6: Selected Financial Data



Item 7:  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and the
Results of Operations

                              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Company has adopted  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS)
No.131,  "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related  Information."
SFAS No. 131 requires  disclosure of certain business segment  information based
on how  management  evaluates the business.  In late 1997,  the Company began an
organizational  restructuring with the formation of several business  operations
to meet the diverse needs of its  customers.  The Company has reported 1998 data
reflecting this new  organization.  1997 and 1996 segment data were not reported
because  it  is   impractical   to  restate  these  years  to  reflect  the  new
organization.  (See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in
the Company's 1998 Form 10-K).

All per share  data have been  adjusted  to  reflect  the  2-for-1  stock  split
effective May 11, 1998.

The following table, which is included as an aid to understanding changes in the
Company's  Consolidated  Statements of Earnings,  presents  various items in the
earnings  statements  expressed  as a percent  of net sales for the years  ended
December 31, 1998,  1997,  and 1996,  and the percent of increase  (decrease) in
such items in 1998 and 1997 from the prior year.


As used in "Item 7: Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and the Results of Operations,"  "Grainger  branch-based  business" reflects the
operations of the Company excluding  Acklands-Grainger  Inc., Lab Safety Supply,
Inc., and Grainger Parts.

Net Sales
The 1998  Company  net sales  increase  of 4.9%,  as  compared  with  1997,  was
principally volume related.  This increase primarily  represented the effects of
the Company's market initiatives which included new product  additions,  and the
National Accounts,  Integrated Supply, and direct marketing programs.  Partially
offsetting  the  growth  from  these  initiatives  was a  decline  in  sales  at
Acklands-Grainger  Inc. (AGI), the Company's Canadian  subsidiary.  This decline
resulted from an unfavorable  change in the Canadian  exchange rate. In Canadian
dollars,  AGI's sales rate was  relatively  flat when  comparing 1998 with 1997.
Weak demand in the mining,  forestry, oil, exploration,  and agriculture sectors
was the primary  cause for AGI's flat sales  performance.  The  Company's  sales
growth rate was 6.1% after excluding AGI from both 1998 and 1997.


The Company's Grainger branch-based business experienced selling price increases
of about 0.7% when comparing 1998 with 1997. Sales to National Account customers
within  the  Grainger   branch-based   business   increased   to   approximately
$1,120,000,000.  Sales to National  Account  customers  increased about 8%, on a
comparable basis, over 1997.

The 1997  Company  net sales  increase  of 16.9%,  as  compared  with 1996,  was
principally  volume related.  This increase was affected by 1997 having one less
sales day than 1996 (on a daily basis, net sales increased 17.4%). Excluding the
incremental  net sales of AGI, the  Canadian  industrial  distribution  business
acquired on December 2, 1996, net sales  increased 7.7% (8.1% on a daily basis).
This  increase  primarily  represented  the effects of the  Company's  marketing
initiatives  which  included  new product  additions,  the  expansion  of branch
facilities,  and the National Accounts,  Integrated Supply, and direct marketing
programs.  Partially  offsetting  the  growth  from these  initiatives  were two
factors.  Sales in the 1997 third quarter were negatively affected by the United
Parcel  Service's  (UPS) work stoppage which began on August 4, 1997, and lasted
more than two weeks.  The Company  estimates that 1997 sales were  approximately
$14,000,000  lower as a result of the UPS work  stoppage.  The second factor was
that daily sales of seasonal  products for the Company,  excluding AGI, declined
an estimated 4% in the year 1997,  as compared  with the same 1996 period.  Many
regions of the United  States  experienced  milder  weather  during most of 1997
versus 1996.

The Company's Grainger branch-based business experienced selling price increases
of about 1.1% when comparing the year 1997 with 1996. The Grainger  branch-based
business National Accounts program showed strong growth for the year, with sales
increasing  to  approximately  $1,015,000,000.  Daily sales to National  Account
customers increased approximately 17%, on a comparable basis, over 1996.

Net Earnings
Net earnings for 1998  increased 2.9% over 1997. The increase for 1998 was lower
than the  increase in net sales due to losses  incurred in  developing  business
ventures, operating expenses increasing at a rate faster than the growth rate in
net  sales,  lower  interest  income,   higher  interest  expense,   and  higher
unclassified-net  expenses,  partially offset by higher gross profit margins.  A
number of factors  contributed to 1998 net earnings  increasing at a slower rate
than 1998 net sales.

1.    The Company continues to invest in developing its business operations. The
      following  operations  experienced  pre-tax  operating losses for the year
      1998:
                                                                      Operating
                                                                        (Loss)
                                                   Net Sales           (pre-tax)
                                                   ---------          ----------
                                                     (In thousands of dollars)

      Grainger Integrated Supply.......              $80,577           $(17,685)
      Mexico business..................               49,325             (3,399)

      Grainger  Integrated  Supply's  average daily sales grew about 56% for the
      year  1998 as  compared  with  1997.  Grainger  Integrated  Supply  serves
      customers through materials management services contracts. These contracts
      are  characterized  by a complete  outsourcing  of the indirect  materials
      process.  Customers not meeting the above  definition were  transferred to
      the Company's  Grainger Custom  Solutions and Grainger  Industrial  Supply
      businesses  during 1998.  Average daily sales in Mexico grew about 21% for
      the year 1998 as compared with 1997.  Grainger  Integrated  Supply and the
      Mexico  business  continue  to  grow  sales,  improve  processes,  develop
      systems, and expand marketing programs.

2.    The  Company's   business-to-business  Web  site,   Grainger.com,   allows
      customers  to do business  using the  Internet.  The Company  developed an
      Internet  marketplace  where customers will be able to buy products from a
      number  of  different  suppliers  using a single  site.  This  marketplace
      concept is currently  being tested with  customers.  In  developing  these
      Internet   initiatives,   the  Company  incurred   operating  expenses  of
      approximately $14,000,000 in 1998 and $6,000,000 in 1997.

3.    Operating  expenses related to data processing were higher by an estimated
      $15,000,000 as compared with 1997, as adjusted for 1998 volume  increases.
      This  was  primarily  due to  incurring  expenses  related  to  Year  2000
      compliance  and the ongoing  installation  of the new business  enterprise
      system.

4.    Operating expenses were also higher in 1998 versus 1997 as a result of the
      following  investments:
      a.    Development of the Grainger Custom Solutions business; and
      b.    Expanded marketing programs at Lab Safety Supply.



The decrease in interest  income  resulted  from lower  average  daily  invested
balances and from lower average interest rates earned.  The increase in interest
expense  resulted from higher  average  interest  rates paid on all  outstanding
debt,  partially  offset by lower average  borrowings and by higher  capitalized
interest.  The higher  unclassified-net  expense primarily resulted from foreign
currency  translation losses relating to the Company's  operations in Mexico and
to a write-off of abandoned capital projects.

The  Company's  gross  profit  margin  increased by 0.67  percentage  point when
comparing the years 1998 and 1997. Of note are the following  factors  affecting
the Company's gross profit margin:

1.    Ongoing programs to reduce product costs improved the gross profit margin.

2.    Selling  price  increases of 0.7% on Grainger  Industrial  Supply  Catalog
      products improved the gross profit margin.

3.    The change in product mix improved the gross profit  margin.  The sales of
      Lab Safety Supply  (generally  higher than average  gross profit  margins)
      increased as a percent of total sales.  The sales of AGI (generally  lower
      than average gross profit margins) decreased as a percent of total sales.

Net  earnings for 1997  increased  11.2% over 1996.  This  increase for 1997 was
lower than the increase in net sales due to operating  expenses  increasing at a
rate faster than the rate of growth in net sales, lower interest income,  higher
interest  expense,  and a higher effective income tax rate,  partially offset by
higher gross profit margins.  Factors  contributing to the increase in operating
expenses were the following:

1.    Payroll  and  other  operating  expenses  were  higher  as a result of the
      following initiatives:
      a.    Continued expansion of the Company's integrated supply business;
      b.    Continued  development  of  the  Company's  full  service  marketing
            capabilities on the Internet;
      c.    Continued refocus and realignment of the Direct Sales force;
      d.    Increased  advertising  expenses  supporting the Company's marketing
            initiatives; and
      e.    Expansion of the Company's telesales capability.

2.    Payroll  and  other  operating   expenses  were  higher  by  an  estimated
      $13,000,000 for Year 2000 compliance,  of which approximately  $10,000,000
      related to outside services.

3.    The operating  expenses of AGI, which  contributed  to the increase,  were
      included  for the entire year of 1997 as  compared  with only the month of
      December in 1996.

The decrease in interest  income  resulted  from lower  average  daily  invested
balances.  This decrease was partially  offset by higher average  interest rates
earned.   The  increase  in  interest   expense  resulted  from  higher  average
borrowings,  partially  offset  by  lower  average  interest  rates  paid on all
outstanding debt. The increase in interest expense was primarily related to debt
added  to  finance  the AGI  acquisition  and to the  short-term  debt  added to
partially fund the repurchase of shares of the Company's common stock.

The Company's effective income tax rate was 40.5% for the year 1997 versus 40.2%
for the year 1996. The increase in the effective income tax rate is attributable
to proportionately  higher income generated in Canada (AGI), which is taxed at a
higher rate than domestic income.

The  Company's  gross  profit  margin  increased by 0.30  percentage  point when
comparing the years 1997 and 1996.  Excluding  AGI, the  Company's  gross profit
margin  increased  0.56  percentage  point when  comparing the years of 1997 and
1996. Of note were the following  factors  affecting the gross profit margin for
the Company, excluding AGI:

1.    The change in product  mix was  favorable  as sales of  seasonal  products
      (generally  lower than average  gross profit  margins)  declined,  and Lab
      Safety Supply sales  (generally  higher than average gross profit margins)
      increased as a percent of total sales.

2.    Selling price increases  exceeded the level of cost  increases.  Partially
      offsetting  the above factors was an  unfavorable  change in selling price
      category  mix,  which  primarily  resulted from the growth in sales to the
      Company's larger volume customers.

Net earnings were negatively affected by the UPS work stoppage which occurred in
August 1997.  The gross profit margin lost on the estimated  $14,000,000 in lost
sales, along with the incremental operating expenses incurred to serve customers
during this period,  resulted in an estimated negative effect on net earnings of
about $0.03 per share.



Year 2000
The Company uses various  software and  technology  that is affected by the Year
2000 issue. The Year 2000 issue is the result of computer programs being written
using two  digits  rather  than four to define  the  applicable  year.  Computer
programs  that have  date-sensitive  software may recognize a date using "00" as
the year 1900 rather than the year 2000.  This could result in a system  failure
or in miscalculations causing disruptions to operations,  including, among other
things,  a temporary  inability  to process  transactions,  to send  invoices to
customers,  or to engage in similar normal  business  activities.  The Year 2000
issue affects virtually all companies and organizations.

The Company has put in place project teams dedicated to implementing a Year 2000
solution and to improving the Company's overall systems capabilities.  The teams
are  actively  working to achieve the  objectives  of Year 2000  compliance  and
improved  internal  systems.  The work  includes  the  modification  of  certain
existing systems, a major new system initiative, replacing hardware and software
for other systems, the creation of contingency plans, and surveying suppliers of
goods and services with whom the Company does business.

In addition to solving  some Year 2000 issues,  the major new system  initiative
reduces the  complexity  which has  evolved  over time from the  development  of
in-house systems. This complexity, which makes it difficult to change and modify
systems  quickly,  has resulted in a  proliferation  of programs and  databases.
These issues will be addressed by the installation of a new business  enterprise
system to replace a majority of the Company's  primary operating  systems.  This
major system  initiative has been undertaken to improve the Company's ability to
quickly respond to changing market conditions, to reduce the cost of maintaining
and supporting existing systems, and to leverage the use of information.

The Company is using a standard  methodology with three phases for the Year 2000
compliance  project.  Phase  I  includes  conducting  a  complete  inventory  of
potentially affected areas of the business (including information technology and
non-information   technology),   assessing  and   prioritizing  the  information
collected during the inventory, and completing detailed project plans to address
all key areas of the project.  Phase II includes the  remediation and testing of
all mission  critical  areas of the  project,  surveying  suppliers of goods and
services with whom the Company does  business,  and the creation of  contingency
plans to address potential Year 2000 related problems.  Phase III of the project
includes  the  remediation  and  testing of  non-mission  critical  areas of the
project,  and the  implementation of contingency plans as may be necessary.  The
Company completed Phase I. Phase II and Phase III are in process.

The Company is using both internal and external resources to reprogram, replace,
and test the software and hardware for Year 2000 compliance.  Year 2000 work for
mission critical and most non-mission critical systems and testing of all system
revisions is planned to be completed in the third quarter of 1999.  The expenses
associated with this project  include both a reallocation  of existing  internal
resources plus the use of outside  services.  Project expenses for 1998 and 1997
amounted to an estimated $39 million.  The total remaining  expenses  associated
with the Year 2000 project are estimated to be between $34 and $39 million.  Due
to the Year  2000  project  and the  major  new  system  initiative,  1998  data
processing  expenses were approximately $15 million higher than 1997 expenses as
adjusted for 1998 volume related charges.  The data processing expenses for 1999
are  estimated to be a net $10 to $12 million  higher than the 1998  expenses as
adjusted for 1999 volume  related  changes.  It is expected that these  projects
will be funded through the Company's operating cash flows.

In addition to addressing internal systems, the Company's Year 2000 project team
has  surveyed  suppliers  of goods  and  services  with  whom the  Company  does
business.  This is being done to  determine  the extent to which the  Company is
vulnerable to failures by third parties to remediate their own Year 2000 issues.
However,  there  can be no  guarantee  that  the  systems  of  other  companies,
including  those  on  which  the  Company's  systems  interact,  will be  timely
converted.  A failure  to convert  by  another  company  on a timely  basis or a
conversion by another company that is incompatible  with the Company's  systems,
may have a material adverse effect on the Company.

As  part  of  Phase  II of the  Year  2000  project,  the  Company  is  creating
contingency  plans to address  potential  Year 2000  related  problems  with key
business processes.  These plans, which are scheduled to be completed and tested
in the second  quarter of 1999,  are expected to address  risks to the Company's
systems as well as risks from third party suppliers,  customers, and others with
whom the Company does business.  It is recognized  that while the Company cannot
eliminate  all potential  risks,  the effect of the risks on the business can be
partially mitigated by creating and testing contingency plans where appropriate.




The  estimated  expenses  for these  projects and the dates by which the Company
will complete the Year 2000 work are based on  management's  current  assessment
and were derived utilizing numerous assumptions of future events,  including the
continued availability of certain resources, third-party modification plans, and
other factors.  However,  there can be no guarantee that these estimates will be
achieved or that all  components  of Year 2000  compliance  will be addressed as
planned.  Uncertainties  include,  but are not limited to, the  availability and
cost of  personnel  trained in this area,  the ability to locate and correct all
relevant  computer  codes,  and the sources and  timeliness  of various  systems
replacements.

Management  believes  that  failure to  address  the Year 2000 issue on a timely
basis could have a material  adverse  effect on the Company and  continues to be
committed to devoting the appropriate resources to address the Year 2000 issue.

                               FINANCIAL CONDITION
Working  capital  was   $541,872,000   at  December  31,  1998,   compared  with
$649,107,000  at December 31, 1997, and  $704,175,000  at December 31, 1996. The
ratio of current  assets to current  liabilities  was 1.8,  2.2, and 2.1 at such
dates.

Net cash flows from operations of  $334,591,000  in 1998,  $426,563,000 in 1997,
and  $272,410,000  in 1996,  have  continued to improve the Company's  financial
position  and serve as the primary  source of funding for capital  requirements.
For  information  as to  the  Company's  cash  flows,  see  "Item  8:  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data."

In each of the past three years, a portion of working  capital has been used for
additions to property,  buildings,  and equipment,  and capitalized  software as
summarized in the following table.

On April 29, 1998, the Company's Board of Directors voted to restore an existing
share repurchase  authorization to its original level of 10,000,000  shares. The
Company repurchased  4,483,100 shares of its common stock during 1998, 8,435,972
shares of its common stock during 1997,  and 819,200  shares of its common stock
during 1996. As of December 31, 1998,  approximately  5,600,000 shares of common
stock remain available under this repurchase authorization.

Dividends paid to shareholders  were  $56,683,000 in 1998,  $53,934,000 in 1997,
and $50,035,000 in 1996.

On December 2, 1996, the Company  acquired AGI for  approximately  $289,334,000,
including  transaction  expenses.  The purchase  consisted of cash  payments and
transaction  expenses of $136,801,000  (funded principally by short-term debt of
$132,874,000),  and the  issuance of  4,079,772  shares of W.W.  Grainger,  Inc.
common stock  valued at  $152,533,000.  The Company  repurchased  the  4,079,772
shares during 1997, which is included in the 8,435,972 shares repurchased during
1997.

Internally  generated  funds have been the primary source of working capital and
funds needed for expanding the business,  supplemented by debt as  circumstances
dictated.  In addition to continuing facilities  optimization efforts,  business
development, and systems and other infrastructure enhancements,  funds are being
expended for the  consolidation  of  Chicago-area  offices into the Lake Forest,
Illinois office facility currently being constructed.

The  Company  continues  to  maintain  a low debt  ratio  and  strong  liquidity
position,  which  provides  flexibility  in funding  working  capital  needs and
long-term cash  requirements.  In addition to internally  generated  funds,  the
Company has various sources of financing  available,  including commercial paper
sales and bank borrowings  under lines of credit and otherwise.  Total debt as a
percent of  shareholders'  equity was 18%,  12%,  and 11%, at December 31, 1998,
1997, and 1996, respectively.




                          INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES
Inflation  during  the last  three  years has not been a  significant  factor to
operations.  The  predominant  use of the last-in,  first-out  (LIFO)  method of
accounting for inventories and  accelerated  depreciation  methods for financial
reporting  and income tax purposes  result in a substantial  recognition  of the
effects of inflation in the primary financial statements.

The major impact of inflation is on buildings  and  improvements,  where the gap
between historic cost and replacement cost continues to be significant for these
long lived assets. The related depreciation expense associated with these assets
increases significantly when adjusting for the cumulative effect of inflation.

The Company believes the most positive means to combat inflation and advance the
interests  of  investors  lies  in  continued   application  of  basic  business
principles,  which include improving  productivity,  increasing  working capital
turnover,  and offering  products and  services  which can command  proper price
levels in the marketplace.

Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
The financial  statements and supplementary data are included on pages 18 to 38.
See the Index to Financial Statements and Supplementary Data on page 17.

Item 9: Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.

                                    PART III

Item 10: Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
Information  regarding  directors  of  the  Company  will  be set  forth  in the
Company's proxy  statement  relating to the annual meeting of shareholders to be
held April 28, 1999,  and, to the extent  required,  is  incorporated  herein by
reference.  Information regarding executive officers of the Company is set forth
under the caption "Executive Officers."

Item 11: Executive Compensation
Information regarding executive  compensation will be set forth in the Company's
proxy statement  relating to the annual meeting of shareholders to be held April
28, 1999, and, to the extent required, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item  12:  Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners  and  Management
Information  regarding  security  ownership  of  certain  beneficial  owners and
management will be set forth in the Company's  proxy  statement  relating to the
annual  meeting of  shareholders  to be held April 28, 1999,  and, to the extent
required, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions will be set
forth in the  Company's  proxy  statement  relating  to the  annual  meeting  of
shareholders  to be  held  April  28, 1999,  and,  to  the  extent  required, is
incorporated herein by reference.









                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 of the  Securities  Exchange Act of
1934,  the Company has duly issued this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

DATE: March 24, 1999

W.W. GRAINGER, INC.



By:    /s/ R. L. Keyser                 By:   /s/ P. O. Loux
   ---------------------------------       -----------------------
   R. L. Keyser                            P.O. Loux
   Chairman of the Board                   Senior Vice President, Finance
   and Chief Executive Officer             and Chief Financial Officer     
   (a Principal Executive Officer and      (Principal Financial Officer)
     a Director)                     


By:   /s/  J. D. Fluno                    By:  /s/ R. D. Pappano
   ---------------------------------         -----------------------
   J. D. Fluno                               R. D. Pappano
   Vice Chairman                             Vice President, Financial Reporting
   (a Principal Executive Officer and        and Investor Relations
     a Director)                             (Principal Accounting Officer)



By:     /s/ D. W. Grainger            
   ---------------------------------  
   D. W. Grainger                     
   Senior Chairman of the Board       
   (a Principal Executive Officer and 
     a Director)                      



 /s/ George R. Baker      March 24, 1999   /s/ James D. Slavik   March 24, 1999
- ----------------------    ---------------  --------------------- ---------------
   George R. Baker                           James D. Slavik
      Director                                  Director



/s/ Robert E. Elberson    March 24, 1999   /s/ Harold B. Smith   March 24, 1999
- ----------------------    ---------------  --------------------  ---------------
 Robert E. Elberson                          Harold B. Smith
      Director                                  Director



/s/ Wilbur H. Gantz       March 24, 1999   /s/ Fred L. Turner    March 24, 1999
- ----------------------    ---------------  --------------------  ---------------
   Wilbur H. Gantz                           Fred L. Turner
      Director                                  Director



/s/ John W. McCarter, Jr. March 24, 1999   /s/ Janiece S. Webb   March 24, 1999
- ------------------------- --------------   --------------------  ---------------
  John W. McCarter, Jr.                       Janiece S. Webb
      Director                                  Director





              INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
                        December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996


                                                                            Page
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS.......................     18

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS..............................     19

        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE EARNINGS................     19

        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

               ASSETS....................................................     20

               LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY......................     21

        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS............................  22-23

        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY..................     24

        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.......................  25-36

SCHEDULE II - ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS............................     36

EXHIBIT 11 - COMPUTATIONS OF EARNINGS PER SHARE..........................     37

EXHIBIT 23 - CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS.........     38




               REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders and
Board of Directors of
W.W. Grainger, Inc.

   We  have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets  of  W.W.
Grainger,  Inc., and  Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998,  1997, and 1996, and
the  related  consolidated  statements  of  earnings,   comprehensive  earnings,
shareholders'  equity,  and cash flows for the years then ended. These financial
statements   are  the   responsibility   of  the   Company's   management.   Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.

   We  conducted  our audits in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

   In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material  respects,  the consolidated  financial  position of W.W. Grainger,
Inc.,  and  Subsidiaries  as of  December  31,  1998,  1997,  and 1996,  and the
consolidated  results of their operations and their  consolidated cash flows for
the  years  then  ended,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted   accounting
principles.

   We have also audited Schedule II of W.W. Grainger, Inc., and Subsidiaries for
the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996. In our opinion, this Schedule
presents fairly, in all material  respects,  the information  required to be set
forth therein.




                                                 GRANT THORNTON LLP


   Chicago, Illinois
   February 3, 1999



























                      W.W. Grainger, Inc., and Subsidiaries

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996


NOTE 1--SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

INDUSTRY INFORMATION
The Company is engaged in the distribution of maintenance, repair, and operating
(MRO) supplies, services, and related information to businesses and institutions
in North America.

Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated  financial  statements  include the accounts of the Company and
its subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany transactions are eliminated from
the consolidated financial statements.

STOCK SPLIT
The  consolidated  financial  statements  have been  retroactively  restated  to
reflect the 2-for-1 stock split effective May 11, 1998.

MANAGEMENT ESTIMATES
In  preparing  financial   statements  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted
accounting principles,  management is required to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported  amounts of assets and  liabilities,  the disclosure of
contingent  assets and liabilities,  and the estimates of revenues and expenses.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

REVENUE RECOGNITION
The Company  recognizes  revenue at the date products are shipped or at the date
services are completed.

INVENTORIES
Inventories  are  valued  at the  lower of cost or  market.  Cost is  determined
primarily by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.

PROPERTY, BUILDINGS, AND EQUIPMENT Property, buildings, and equipment are valued
at cost.

For financial statement purposes,  depreciation and amortization are provided in
amounts  sufficient to relate the cost of depreciable  assets to operations over
their  estimated  service  lives,   principally  on  the  declining-balance  and
sum-of-the-years-digits  methods.  The principal  estimated useful lives used in
determining depreciation are as follows:

Buildings, structures, and improvements.......... ...             10 to 45 years
Furniture, fixtures, machinery, and equipment........              3 to 10 years

Improvements  to leased  property are  amortized  over the initial  terms of the
respective leases or the estimated service lives of the improvements,  whichever
is shorter.

The  Company  capitalized   interest  costs  of  $2,323,000,   $1,810,000,   and
$1,772,000, in 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
The financial  statements of the Company's  foreign  subsidiaries  are generally
measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Net exchange gains
or losses  resulting  from the  translation  of financial  statements of foreign
operations,   and  related   long-term  debt,   except  for  those  from  highly
inflationary  economies,  are recorded as a separate  component of shareholders'
equity.

PURCHASED TAX BENEFITS
The Company  purchased tax benefits  through  leases as provided by the Economic
Recovery Tax Act of 1981. Realized tax benefits, net of repayments, are included
in Deferred Income Taxes.

INCOME TAXES
Income taxes are recognized during the year in which transactions enter into the
determination of financial  statement income, with deferred taxes being provided
for temporary differences between financial and tax reporting.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Effective January 1, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income."



SFAS No. 130 requires  disclosure of the  components of and total  comprehensive
income in the period in which they are  recognized in the financial  statements.
Comprehensive  income is  defined  as the  change in equity  (net  assets)  of a
business enterprise arising from transactions and other events and circumstances
from non-owner sources.  It includes all changes in shareholders'  equity during
the  reporting  period except those  resulting  from  investments  by owners and
distributions to owners.

The  Company's   comprehensive  income  includes  foreign  currency  translation
adjustments with no related income tax effects.  The cumulative  amount of other
comprehensive   income  adjustments  were   ($19,564,000),   ($9,210,000),   and
($2,262,000) at December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

SEGMENT INFORMATION
Effective  December  31,  1998,  the  Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards  (SFAS)  No.  131,   "Disclosures  About  Segments  of  an
Enterprise  and  Related  Information."  SFAS No.  131  supersedes  SFAS No. 14,
"Financial  Reporting  for  Segments of a Business  Enterprise,"  replacing  the
"industry  segment"  approach with the  "management"  approach.  The  management
approach  designates  the internal  organization  that is used by management for
making  operating  decisions  and  assessing  performance  as the  source of the
Company's  reportable  segments.  SFAS No. 131 also requires  disclosures  about
products and services, geographic areas, and major customers.

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Effective January 1, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards  (SFAS) No. 132,  "Employers'  Disclosures  about  Pensions  and Other
Postretirement  Benefits."  The  provisions  of SFAS No. 132  revise  employers'
disclosures about pension and other  postretirement  benefit plans. SFAS No. 132
does not change the measurement or expense recognition of these plans.

CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE
Statement of Position (SOP) 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software
Developed or Obtained for Internal Use," is effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 1998. SOP 98-1 provides  guidance on accounting for the costs
of computer  software  developed or obtained for internal use. The Company plans
to adopt SOP 98-1 beginning January 1,1999.

NOTE 2--BUSINESS ACQUISITION

Effective  December 2, 1996, the Company  purchased the stock of a subsidiary of
Acklands Limited (a Canadian corporation).  The business acquired is the largest
nationwide  distributor  of  broad  line  industrial  supplies  in  Canada.  The
aggregate purchase price was approximately  $289,334,000  including  transaction
expenses.  The purchase  consisted of cash payments and transaction  expenses of
$136,801,000  (funded  principally by short-term debt of  $132,874,000)  and the
issuance of  4,079,772  shares of W.W.  Grainger,  Inc.  common  stock valued at
$152,533,000.  The  acquisition  is  being  accounted  for  as a  purchase,  and
accordingly,  the financial  statements  include  results of operations from the
date of acquisition. The purchase included intangibles, including trademarks and
goodwill,  valued at  $173,420,000 to be amortized over periods of five to forty
years.

The  following  unaudited  pro forma  summary  presents the combined  results of
operations of the Company and the acquired  business,  as if the acquisition had
occurred at the beginning of 1996.  The pro forma amounts give effect to certain
adjustments,   including  the  amortization  of  intangibles,  foreign  currency
translation,  increased interest expense and income tax effects.  This pro forma
summary does not  necessarily  reflect the results of  operations  as they would
have been if the businesses  had  constituted a single entity during this period
and is not  necessarily  indicative  of  results  which may be  obtained  in the
future.

                                                    Year Ended December 31, 1996
                                                             (Pro forma,
                                                       in thousands of dollars
                                                   except for per share amounts)
Net sales.................................                   $3,847,665
Operating earnings........................                   $  368,203
Net earnings..............................                   $  216,680
Earnings per share:
  Basic...................................                   $     2.04
  Diluted.................................                   $     2.02







NOTE 3--CASH FLOWS

The Company considers  investments in highly liquid debt instruments,  purchased
with an original  maturity of ninety days or less, to be cash  equivalents.  For
cash  equivalents the carrying amount  approximates  fair value due to the short
maturity of these instruments.

Cash paid during the year for:         

                                            1998          1997            1996
                                          --------      --------        --------
                                                 (In thousands of dollars)
Interest (net of amounts capitalized)..     $5,027        $5,773            $974
                                          ========      ========        ========
Income taxes...........................   $165,668      $143,471        $131,726
                                          ========      ========        ========

NOTE 4--CASH

Checks outstanding of $74,183,000, $54,218,000, and $35,366,000, are included in
Trade accounts payable at December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively. These
amounts are immaterial to the consolidated financial statements.

NOTE 5--CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

The Company places temporary cash  investments with  institutions of high credit
quality  and,  by  policy,  limits  the  amount  of credit  exposure  to any one
institution.

The Company has a broad customer base representing many diverse industries doing
business  in all  regions of the United  States as well as other  areas of North
America.  Consequently, in management's opinion, no significant concentration of
credit risk exists for the Company.

NOTE 6--INVENTORIES

Inventories primarily consist of merchandise purchased for resale.

Inventories would have been $217,455,000,  $215,707,000, and $209,305,000 higher
than  reported  at December  31,  1998,  1997,  and 1996,  respectively,  if the
first-in,  first-out (FIFO) method of inventory accounting had been used for all
Company inventories. Inventories under FIFO approximate replacement cost.

NOTE 7--OTHER ASSETS

Included in other assets are  intangibles  such as customer  lists and goodwill.
Customer  lists are amortized on a  straight-line  basis over periods of five to
sixteen years.  Goodwill represents the cost in excess of net assets of acquired
companies  and is  amortized  on a  straight-line  basis over periods of five to
forty years.  The Company's  goodwill is  predominately  denominated in Canadian
dollars and  accordingly,  the  changes in the asset  balance are due to foreign
exchange rate fluctuations.

Other  assets also  includes  net  capitalized  software  used in the  Company's
business.  During 1998, the Company acquired a new business  enterprise software
system. Amortization of capitalized software is predominately on a straight-line
basis over five years.  Amortization  expense was  $4,645,000,  $1,556,000,  and
$2,474,000 for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.





NOTE 8--SHORT-TERM DEBT

The following summarizes information concerning short-term debt:



The  Company  and its  subsidiaries  had  committed  lines  of  credit  totaling
$318,069,000  and  $168,983,000  at December  31,  1998 and 1997,  respectively,
including $13,069,000 and $13,983,000 denominated in Canadian dollars. A Company
subsidiary  also has a $32,673,000 and  $34,958,000  uncommitted  line of credit
denominated in Canadian dollars as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.
At December 31, 1998,  borrowings  under the  subsidiaries'  committed  lines of
credit were $3,704,000. The Company has guaranteed these borrowings.

At December 31, 1996,  available lines of credit were  $186,483,000  including a
$36,483,000 working capital line of credit denominated in Canadian dollars.

At December 31, 1996, in connection with the business  acquisition  described in
Note 2, a Company  subsidiary  had  approximately  $131,000,000  in  outstanding
banker's  acceptances  included in  short-term  debt.  During 1997 this debt was
refinanced as described in Note 10.

NOTE 9--EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

RETIREMENT  PLANS.  A  majority  of the  Company's  employees  are  covered by a
noncontributory  profit  sharing plan.  This plan  provides for annual  employer
contributions  based upon a formula primarily related to earnings before federal
income  taxes,  limited to 15% of the total  compensation  paid to all  eligible
employees.  The Company  also  sponsors  additional  profit  sharing and defined
benefit  plans which  cover most of the other  employees.  Provisions  under all
plans  were  $65,576,000,  $55,052,000,  and  $49,450,000  for the  years  ended
December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

POSTRETIREMENT  BENEFITS.  The Company has a health care  benefits plan covering
most of its retired employees and their dependents.  A majority of the Company's
employees  become  eligible for  participation  when they qualify for retirement
while working for the Company.

The amount charged to operating expense for postretirement  health care benefits
was  $4,256,000,  $3,653,000,  and  $3,578,000  for the years ended December 31,
1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively. Components of the expense were:






Participation  in the plan is voluntary at retirement and requires  participants
to make  contributions,  as  determined  by the Company,  toward the cost of the
plan.  The  accounting  for the health care  benefits  plan  anticipates  future
cost-sharing  changes to retiree  contributions  that will  maintain the current
cost-sharing  ratio  between  the  Company  and the  retirees.  Plan  design and
eligibility  changes  effective  January  1,  1998,  included  modifications  to
eligibility requirements and the adjustment of benefit maximums.

A Group Benefit  Trust has been  established  as the vehicle to process  benefit
payments.  The assets of the trust are invested in a Standard & Poor's 500 index
fund. The assumed  weighted  average  long-term rate of return is 7.4%, which is
net of a 32.4% tax rate.  The funding of the trust is an estimated  amount which
is intended  to allow the maximum  deductible  contribution  under the  Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and was $2,444,000, $859,000, and $379,000 for
the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

A  reconciliation  of the  beginning  and  ending  balances  of the  accumulated
postretirement  benefit  obligation  (APBO),  the fair value of assets,  and the
funded status of the benefit obligation as of December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996,
is as follows:


To  determine  the APBO as of December  31, 1998,  1997,  and 1996,  the assumed
weighted average discount rate used was 6.8%, 7.0%, and 7.5%, respectively.  The
assumed  health care cost trend rate for 1999 is 8.0%.  Beginning  in 2000,  the
assumed  health  care cost trend rate  declines on a  straight-line  basis until
2009, when the ultimate trend rate of 5.0% is achieved.

If the assumed health care cost trend rate was increased by one percentage point
for each year,  the APBO as of December 31, 1998,  would increase by $9,822,000.
The aggregate of the service cost and interest  cost  components of the 1998 net
periodic postretirement benefits expense would increase by $1,453,000.

If the assumed health care cost trend rate was decreased by one percentage point
for each year,  the APBO as of December 31, 1998,  would decrease by $7,637,000.
The aggregate of the service cost and interest  cost  components of the 1998 net
periodic postretirement benefits expense would decrease by $1,108,000.




NOTE 10--LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt consisted of the following at December 31:


As part of the  permanent  financing  for a  Canadian  Subsidiary,  the  Company
maintained a $130,693,000 uncommitted revolving credit facility,  denominated in
Canadian dollars. The Company has $117,885,000  outstanding at December 31, 1998
relating to this facility  with a weighted  average  interest rate of 5.6%.  The
Company  has the  intent  and the  ability  to  refinance  the  obligation  on a
long-term  basis  through  its credit  lines and  therefore  it is  included  in
long-term debt.

The  industrial  development  revenue  bonds  include  various  issues that bear
interest  at a variable  rate up to 15%,  or  variable  rates up to 78.2% of the
prime rate,  and come due in various  amounts from 2001 through  2021.  Interest
rates on some of the  issues  are  subject  to  change at  certain  dates in the
future.  The  bondholders  may  require  the  Company  to redeem  certain  bonds
concurrent with a change in interest rates and certain other bonds annually.  In
addition,  $13,545,000  of  these  bonds  had an  unsecured  liquidity  facility
available at December 31, 1998, for which the Company compensated a bank through
a commitment fee of 0.1%.  There were no borrowings  related to this facility at
December 31, 1998. The Company classified $22,755,000 of bonds currently subject
to redemption  options in current  maturities of long-term  debt at December 31,
1998, 1997, and 1996.

The  aggregate  amounts of  long-term  debt  maturing  in each of the five years
subsequent to December 31, 1998, are as follows:

                                                  Amounts            Amounts
                                               Payable Under       Subject to
                                                 Terms of          Redemption
                                                Agreements           Options
                                               -------------       -----------
                                                   (In thousands of dollars)

1999..................................                  $76          $22,755
2000..................................                   83            4,895
2001..................................                   20              --
2002..................................                   --              --
2003..................................              117,885              --






NOTE 11--LEASES

The  Company  leases  various  land,  buildings,   and  equipment.  The  Company
capitalizes all significant leases which qualify as capital leases.

At December 31, 1998, the approximate  future minimum aggregate payments for all
leases were as follows:


Total rent  expense,  including  both items  under  lease and items  rented on a
month-to-month  basis, was $16,336,000,  $21,396,000,  and $18,434,000 for 1998,
1997, and 1996, respectively.

NOTE 12--STOCK INCENTIVE PLANs

The Company's  Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan ("The Plan") allows the Company to
grant a variety of incentive  awards to key employees of the Company.  A maximum
of 8,056,828  shares of common stock are authorized for issuance under the Plan,
in connection with awards of  non-qualified  stock options,  stock  appreciation
rights, restricted stock, phantom stock rights, and other stock-based awards.

The Plan  authorizes  the  granting  of  restricted  stock  which is held by the
Company  until  certain  terms and  conditions  as  specified by the Company are
satisfied.  Except for the right of disposal,  holders of restricted  stock have
full  shareholders'  rights during the period of restriction,  including  voting
rights and the right to receive dividends.

The Plan authorizes the granting of options to purchase shares at a price of not
less than 100% of the closing market price on the last trading day preceding the
date of grant. The options expire within ten years after the date of grant.

Shares  covered  by  terminated,   surrendered  or  canceled  options  or  stock
appreciation rights that are unexercised,  by forfeited  restricted stock, or by
the  forfeiture of other awards that do not result in shares being  issued,  are
again available for awards under the Plan.

There were  52,500  shares of  restricted  stock  issued in 1998 with a weighted
average  fair  market  value of $52.04 per share.  There were  20,000  shares of
restricted  stock  issued in 1997 with a fair market value of $40.125 per share.
There were 470,000 shares of restricted  stock issued in 1996 with a fair market
value  of $38 per  share.  The  shares  are  scheduled  to vest ten  years  from
issuance,  although  accelerated  vesting  is  provided  in  certain  instances.
Restricted  stock released  totaled 400, 1,000,  and 2,000 shares in 1998, 1997,
and 1996, respectively.  Compensation expense related to restricted stock awards
is based upon  market  price at date of grant and is charged  to  earnings  on a
straight-line basis over the period of restriction.  Total compensation  expense
relating to restricted stock was $2,022,000,  $1,872,000,  and $282,000 in 1998,
1997, and 1996, respectively.





During 1997,  the Company  adopted a Director  Stock Plan in which  non-employee
directors  participate.  A total of 500,000 shares of common stock were reserved
for issuance in connection  with awards of stock,  stock units,  stock  options,
restricted stock, and other stock-based awards under the new plan.

The Company awarded Stock Units under the Director Stock Plan in connection with
the  termination  of  previous  director  compensation  plans.  A Stock  Unit is
essentially  the economic  equivalent  of a share of Company  stock.  Additional
deferred  fees and  dividends  are  converted to Stock Units based on the market
value of the stock at the relevant time.

Payment of the value of Stock Units generally will be made after the termination
of service as a director. As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, eight directors held
Stock Units,  in  connection  with which the Company had  recognized  expense of
$286,000 and $1,850,000, respectively.

Transactions involving stock options are summarized as follows:



All  options  were  issued at market  price on the date of grant.  Options  were
issued with initial vesting periods ranging from one to five years.

Information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 1998, is as follows:

                               Options Outstanding
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  Weighted Average
                                       -----------------------------------------
Range of Exercise        Number        Remaining Contractual        Exercise
      Prices          Outstanding         Life (Years)               Price
- -----------------     -----------      ---------------------        --------

 $13.94-$29.44          1,074,840              2.9                    $23.32
 $33.75-$38.75          1,822,020              7.2                    $33.99
 $41.13-$52.88            893,580              9.3                    $51.06

                     Options Exercisable
- ------------------------------------------------------------
Range of Exercise        Number             Weighted Average
     Prices           Exercisable           Exercise Price
- -----------------     -----------      ---------------------
 $13.94-$29.44          1,074,840                $23.32
 $33.75-$41.13            657,460                $30.95

Shares available for future awards were 3,877,538,  4,767,018, and 4,943,438, at
December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.





In accordance  with Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standard (SFAS) No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation,"  the Company has elected to continue
to account for stock compensation under Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No.
25. Pro forma net earnings and earnings per share, as calculated  under SFAS No.
123, are as follows:

                                   1998               1997             1996
                                  --------          --------         --------
                                           (In thousands of dollars
                                         except for per share amounts)
Net earnings..................    $234,257          $229,107         $206,696
Earnings per share:
  Basic.......................    $   2.43          $   2.28         $   2.02
  Diluted.....................    $   2.39          $   2.25         $   2.00

The weighted  average fair value of the stock options granted during 1998, 1997,
and 1996 was $16.12,  $12.95, and $10.88,  respectively.  The fair value of each
option grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model based on
the date of the grant and the following weighted average assumptions:

                                   1998               1997             1996
                                  --------          --------         --------
Risk-free interest rate.......         5.8%              6.7%             6.6%
Expected life.................    7.0 years         7.0 years        6.5 years
Expected volatility...........        20.1%             21.0%            21.8%
Expected dividend yield.......         1.5%              1.5%             1.5%


NOTE 13--ISSUANCE OF PREFERRED SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS

The Company adopted a Shareholder  Rights Plan, under which there is outstanding
one preferred  share  purchase right (Right) for each  outstanding  share of the
Company's  common  stock.  Each  Right,  under  certain  circumstances,  may  be
exercised  to  purchase  one  four-hundredth  of a  share  of  Series  A  Junior
Participating  Preferred  Stock  (intended to be the economic  equivalent of one
share  of  the  Company's  common  stock)  at a  price  of  $62.50,  subject  to
adjustment.  The Rights become exercisable only after a person or a group, other
than a person or group  exempt  under the plan,  acquires or  announces a tender
offer for 20% or more of the Company's common stock. If a person or group, other
than a person  or group  exempt  under  the  plan,  acquires  20% or more of the
Company's  common  stock or if the  Company  is  acquired  in a merger  or other
business  combination  transaction,  each Right  generally  entitles the holder,
other than such  person or group,  to  purchase,  at the  then-current  exercise
price,  stock and/or other  securities or assets of the Company or the acquiring
company having a market value of twice the exercise price.

The Rights expire on May 15, 1999, unless earlier  redeemed.  They generally are
redeemable  at $.01 per Right until thirty days  following  announcement  that a
person  or  group,  other  than a person or group  exempt  under  the plan,  has
acquired 20% or more of the Company's common stock. They are also  automatically
redeemable,  at the redemption price, upon consummation of certain  transactions
approved by shareholders in accordance with procedures provided in the plan. The
Rights do not have voting or dividend rights and, until they become exercisable,
have no dilutive effect on the earnings of the Company.

NOTE 14--INCOME TAXES

Income tax expense consisted of the following:

                                            1998         1997           1996
                                          --------     ---------      --------
                                               (In thousands of dollars)
Current provision:
  Federal (including foreign)..........   $141,462      $128,470      $113,968
  State................................     28,791        27,180        26,324
                                          --------     ---------      --------
    Total current......................    170,253       155,650       140,292
Deferred tax (benefits) expense........    (7,910)         2,153            70
                                          --------     ---------      --------
Total provision........................   $162,343      $157,803      $140,362
                                          ========     =========      ========

The deferred tax (benefits)  expense  represent the net effect of the changes in
the amounts of temporary differences.




The  income  tax  effects  of  temporary  differences  that gave rise to the net
deferred tax asset as of December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996 were:

The purchased tax benefits  represent lease  agreements  acquired in prior years
under the provisions of the Economic Recovery Act of 1981.

Net Operating Loss  carryforwards  (NOLs) represent  temporary  differences that
enter into the calculation of deferred tax balances. Since 1997, the Company has
experienced  NOLs for a  foreign  start-up  operation.  The full  amount  of the
deferred tax asset is offset by a valuation  allowance due to the uncertainty of
utilizing these NOLs.

A  reconciliation  of income tax expense with U.S.  federal  income taxes at the
statutory rate follows:






NOTE 15--SEGMENT INFORMATION

The  Company  has  one  reportable  segment:   Branch-based  Distribution.   The
Branch-based  Distribution  segment  provides  customers with solutions to their
immediate  MRO  needs.  Branch-based  Distribution  is  an  aggregation  of  the
following business segments: Grainger Industrial Supply, Acklands-Grainger Inc.,
Grainger  Parts,  Grainger,  S.A. de C.V.,  Puerto Rico,  Grainger  Export,  and
Grainger  Global  Sourcing.  The  Other  column  includes  the  Grainger  Custom
Solutions,  Grainger Integrated Supply,  Grainger Consulting Services,  Internet
Commerce, and Lab Safety Supply, Inc. segments.

The Company's  segments offer  differing  ranges of services and/or products and
require different resources and marketing  strategies.  The segments were formed
in late 1997 as the Company refocused its organization to meet the diverse needs
of its customers.  The restatement of comparable financial  information for 1997
and 1996 is not practicable.

The accounting  policies of the segments are the same as those  described in the
summary of significant  accounting policies.  Intersegment  transfer prices were
established  at  external  selling  prices  less costs not  incurred  due to the
related party sale.

                                         ---------------------------------------
                                                 (In thousands of dollars)
                                         Branch-based
                                         Distribution     Other         Totals
                                          ----------    ----------    ----------
Total net sales ......................    $3,881,237    $  728,020    $4,609,257
Intersegment net sales ...............       260,230         7,758       267,988
Net sales from external customers ....     3,621,007       720,262     4,341,269
Segment operating earnings ...........       435,167        11,214       446,381

Segment assets .......................    $1,805,396    $  189,298    $1,994,694
Depreciation and amortization ........        54,500        19,638        74,138
Additions to long-lived assets .......       115,905        21,954       137,859

Following are  reconciliations of the segment  information with the consolidated
totals per the financial statements (in thousands of dollars).
                                                                    ------------
Operating earnings:
Total operating earnings for reportable segments ............       $   446,381
Unallocated expenses ........................................           (38,326)
Elimination of intersegment profits .........................               (73)
                                                                    ------------
  Total Consolidated operating earnings .....................       $   407,982
                                                                    ============
Assets:
Total assets for reportable segments ........................       $ 1,994,694
Unallocated assets ..........................................           109,208
                                                                    ------------
  Total Consolidated assets .................................       $ 2,103,902
                                                                    ============

                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Segment                   Consolidated
Other Significant Items:                   Totals     Adjustments      Totals
                                          --------     ----------   ------------
Depreciation and amortization ........    $ 74,138      $  4,727       $ 78,865
Additions to long-lived assets .......     137,859        31,981        169,840

                                                                      Long-lived
Geographic Information:                             Revenues            Assets
                                                   ----------         ----------
United States ............................         $3,940,604         $  692,747
Canada ...................................            329,565            180,613
Other foreign countries ..................             71,100              1,080
                                                   ----------         ----------
                                                   $4,341,269         $  874,440
                                                   ==========         ==========

Long-lived  assets  consists  of  property,  buildings,  equipment,  capitalized
software, goodwill, and other intangibles.

Revenues are attributed to countries based on location of customer.




NOTE 16--SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited)
A summary of selected quarterly information for 1998 and 1997 is as follows:




















                                                                      EXHIBIT 23

                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED

                               PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


We hereby  consent  to the  incorporation  of our report on page 18 of this Form
10-K by  reference in the  prospectuses  constituting  part of the  Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 2-67983,  2-54995,  33-43902, and 333-24215) and on
Form S-4 (No. 33-32091) of W.W. Grainger, Inc.


                                                              GRANT THORNTON LLP


Chicago, Illinois
March 24, 1999







