10-K


form10k2002.htm

2002 FORM 10K W.W. GRAINGER, INC.

Form 10K Annual Report for the Year Ended December 31, 2002 - W.W.Grainger, Inc - FCDAA

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT

(Mark One)

[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002

OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-5684

W.W. Grainger, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Illinois

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

36-1150280

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

100 Grainger Parkway, Lake Forest, Illinois 60045-5201

(Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number including area code:  847/535-1000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Common Stock $0.50 par value, and accompanying

Preferred Share
 Purchase Rights

Name of each exchange on which registered

New York Stock Exchange

Chicago Stock Exchange

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

X

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy of information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
(X)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

X

No

The aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $3,996,680,807 as of the
close of trading reported on the Consolidated Transaction Reporting System on June 28, 2002.  The Company does not have non-voting
common equity.

APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest
practicable date.

Common Stock $0.50 par value                 
                
                
 91,585,616 shares outstanding as of March 3, 2003

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
2002 are incorporated by reference into Parts II and IV hereof.

Portions of the proxy statement relating to the annual meeting of shareholders of the registrant to be
held on April 30, 2003, are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.

K-1

CONTENTS

K-2

PART I

Item 1: Business

The Company

W.W. Grainger, Inc., was incorporated in the State of Illinois in 1928 and regards itself as being in the
service business. It is the leading North American distributor of products used by businesses and institutions
to keep their facilities and equipment running. As used herein, "Company" or "Grainger" means W.W. Grainger,
Inc., and/or its subsidiaries as the context may require.

The Company uses a
multichannel business model to provide customers with a range of options for
finding and purchasing products through a network of branches, a field sales
force, direct marketing, and Internet channels. The Company serves more than 1.5
million customers, both large and small. Orders can be placed via telephone,
fax, Internet, or in person. Products are available for immediate pick-up or for
shipment.

The Company reports its operating results in three segments:
Branch-based Distribution Businesses, Lab Safety, and Integrated Supply. The
Branch-based Distribution Businesses primarily serve the needs of North American
businesses for facility maintenance products. Lab Safety Supply, Inc., serves
customers who choose to purchase safety and other industrial products through a
direct marketing company. Grainger’s Integrated Supply division serves
customers seeking to outsource some or all of their indirect materials
management process. In April 2001, the Company discontinued its Digital segment.

The Company also has
internal business support functions which provide coordination and guidance in
the areas of Accounting, Administrative Services, Business Development,
Communications, Compensation and Benefits, Employee Development, Enterprise
Systems, Finance, Human Resources, Investor Relations, Insurance and Risk
Management, Internal Audit, International Operations, Legal, Real Estate and
Construction Services, Security and Safety, Taxes, and Treasury services. These
services are provided in varying degrees to all business units.

A number of
Company-wide capabilities assist business units in serving their respective
markets. These capabilities include technology and information management,
supplier partnerships, supply chain management skills, and an understanding of
the customers’ facility maintenance environments.

The Company does not
engage in basic or substantive product research and development activities.
Items are added and deleted regularly to the Company’s product lines on the
basis of market information, recommendations of employees, customers, and
suppliers, and other factors. The Company focuses research and development
efforts on methods of serving customers and the product distribution process.

Branch-based Distribution Businesses

The Branch-based Distribution Businesses provide North American customers with product solutions to their
facility maintenance needs. Logistics networks are configured for rapid availability. Grainger offers a broad
selection of facility maintenance products through local branches, catalogs, and via the Internet. The
Branch-based Distribution Businesses consist of Grainger's Industrial Supply division, Acklands-Grainger Inc.
(Canada), Grainger's FindMRO division, Grainger's Export division, Grainger's Global Sourcing division,
Grainger's Parts division, Grainger, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico), and Grainger Caribe Inc. (Puerto Rico). Described
below are the more significant of these businesses.

Industrial Supply

The focus of
Grainger’s Industrial Supply division is to provide U.S. businesses and
institutions of all sizes the best combination of product breadth, local
availability, speed of delivery, and simplicity of ordering at a competitive
price. Its primary customers are small and medium-sized companies, but it also
addresses the needs of large organizations.

Grainger’s Industrial
Supply division operates 393 branches located in all 50 states. These branches
are located within 20 minutes of the majority of U.S. businesses and serve the
immediate needs of their local market. Customers pick up items directly from the
branches.

K-3

On average, a branch is
20,000 square feet, has 12 employees, and handles about 231 transactions per
day. During 2002, an average of 91,000 sales transactions were completed daily.
Industrial Supply’s branches range in size from small storefront branches
to large master branches. Storefront branches are used to fulfill will-call
needs and customer service. Industrial Supply has four master branches, which
range in size from 45,000 square feet to 109,000 square feet. Master branches
handle a high volume of counter/will-call customers daily, in addition to
shipping for other branches. In 2002, Industrial Supply opened a 62,000 square
foot branch in Atlanta, Georgia, with a large showroom, which encourages
self-service. In 2002, Industrial Supply invested more than $4 million in plant
and equipment related to new branches, branch relocations, and branch additions.
During the year, six new branches were opened, five were relocated, one was
closed, and a number of remodeling projects were completed.

Industrial Supply is in the
process of reconfiguring its distribution network to remove a warehousing step
from the current distribution system. This redesign is intended to reduce costs,
increase capacity, and improve customer service. As part of the redesign,
Industrial Supply is transforming its existing zone and regional distribution
centers into more highly automated distribution centers (DCs). Five new and four
redesigned DCs will take over most of the shipping currently handled by the
branches. When complete, the DCs will average more than 300,000 square feet in
size, employ state-of-the-art equipment and processes, and stock approximately
50,000 frequently purchased items within a particular market.

Industrial Supply currently
operates three zone distribution centers, and three new automated DCs. DCs ship
orders, including Internet orders, directly to customers for all branches
located in their service area and replenish branch inventories. Two regional
distribution centers located in Greenville County, South Carolina, and Kansas
City, Missouri, replenish DC inventories and branches not served by a DC. The
national distribution center merged with the Chicago DC in the fourth quarter of
2002. In addition to the other functions of a DC, the Chicago facility continues
to be the national distribution center, serving customers and the entire network
with slower moving inventory items.

Industrial Supply sells
principally to industrial and commercial maintenance departments, service shops,
manufacturers, hotels, government facilities, contractors, and healthcare and
educational facilities. Sales transactions during 2002 were made to
approximately 1.3 million customers. It is estimated that approximately 23% of
2002 sales consisted of items bearing the Company’s registered trademarks,
including DAYTON® (principally electric motors, heating, and ventilation
equipment), TEEL® (liquid pumps), SPEEDAIRE® (air compressors), AIR
HANDLER® (air filtration equipment), DEM-KOTE® (spray paints),
WESTWARD® (hand and power tools), CONDOR™ (safety products), and
LUMAPRO® (task and outdoor lighting), as well as other Company trademarks.
The Company has taken steps to protect these trademarks against infringement and
believes that they will remain available for future use in its business. Sales
of remaining items generally consisted of products carrying the names of other
well-recognized brands.

The current Industrial
Supply catalog, issued in February 2003, offers almost 90,000 facility
maintenance products. Approximately 1.4 million copies of the catalog were
produced in 2002. A CD-ROM version of the catalog supplements the paper version
with a fast, easy way to select products. Approximately 190,000 copies of the
CD-ROM catalog were produced in 2002.

Customers can also use
grainger.com. This Web site serves as a prominent service channel for the
Industrial Supply division. Customers have access to a much larger selection of
products through grainger.com. It is available 24 hours a day, seven days a
week, providing real-time product availability, customer-specific pricing,
multiple product search capabilities, customer personalization, and links to
customer support and the fulfillment system. For large customers interested in
connecting to grainger.com through sophisticated purchasing platforms,
grainger.com has a universal connection. This technology translates the
different data formats used by electronic marketplaces, exchanges, and
e-procurement systems and allows information from these systems to be fed
directly into Industrial Supply’s operating platform. Orders processed
through grainger.com resulted in sales of approximately $420 million in 2002,
$333 million in 2001, and $267 million in 2000.

Industrial Supply purchases
products from approximately 1,200 suppliers, most of whom are manufacturers. No
single supplier comprised more than 10% of Industrial Supply’s purchases;
and no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of
supply.

K-4

Acklands-Grainger Inc. (Acklands)

Acklands is Canada’s
leading broad-line distributor of industrial, fleet, and safety supplies. It
serves customers through 176 branches across Canada. Acklands distributes tools,
lighting, HACR, safety supplies, pneumatics, instruments, welding equipment and
supplies, motors, and shop equipment, as well as many other items. A
comprehensive catalog, printed in both English and French, showcases the product
line and helps customers select products. This catalog, with more than 70,000
products, supports the efforts of approximately 250 field sales representatives
throughout Canada. During 2002, approximately 15,000 sales transactions were
completed daily. In addition, customers can access products online via the
Internet at acklandsgrainger.com. On February 1, 2002, the Company finalized a
joint venture agreement combining Acklands’ automotive aftermarket parts
division and the Western Division of Uni-Select Inc., a Canadian distributor of
automotive and industrial supplies. The Company has a 50% stake in the new joint
venture, which is managed by Uni-Select.

FindMRO

FindMRO is a sourcing
service for facilities maintenance products that meet specific customer
requirements. Through sophisticated search technologies and sourcing expertise,
FindMRO locates products when a source is unknown to the customer. FindMRO has
access to more than 4,000 suppliers and five million products. Its services can
be accessed through a Grainger sales representative or a branch.

Global Sourcing

Global Sourcing procures
competitively priced, high-quality products produced outside the United States.
Grainger businesses sell these items primarily under private labels. Products
obtained through Global Sourcing in 2002 include WESTWARD® tools,
LUMAPRO® lighting products, and CONDOR™ safety products, as well as
products bearing other trademarks.

Parts

Parts provides access to
more than 2.5 million parts and accessories, stocking 72,000 of them in its
Northbrook, Illinois, warehouse. Customers can purchase over the telephone or
online at grainger.com. Trained customer service representatives have online
access to more than 270,000 pages of detailed parts diagrams. Parts handled
about 1.6 million customer calls in 2002 through its call centers in Northbrook,
Illinois, and Waterloo, Iowa.

Parts has been ISO 9002 certified since 1995 and
its 100% compliance with ISO 9002 standards ranked it among the top 10% of all
ISO-certified companies.

Mexico

Grainger’s operations
in Mexico provide local businesses with facility maintenance products from both
Mexico and the United States. The business employed 68 sales representatives at
December 31, 2002. From its five branches in Mexico and U.S. branches along the
border, the business provides delivery of approximately 70,000 products
throughout Mexico. Customers can order products using a Spanish-language general
catalog or online at grainger.com.mx. The largest branch in Mexico, an 80,000
square foot facility, is located outside of Monterrey, Mexico.

Digital Businesses

In April 2001, the Company
announced it was discontinuing the operations of Material Logic. All of Material
Logic’s branded e-commerce sites were shut down with the exception of
FindMRO, which remains in the Branch-based Distribution Businesses segment.

Lab Safety

Lab Safety is a direct
marketer of safety and other industrial products to U.S. and Canadian
businesses. Lab Safety, located in Janesville, Wisconsin, primarily reaches its
customers through targeted catalogs and other marketing materials distributed
throughout the year.

Lab Safety offers extensive
product depth, technical support, and high service levels. It is a primary
supplier for many small and medium-sized companies and a backup supplier for
many larger companies. During 2002, Lab Safety issued ten unique catalogs
targeted to specific customer groups. Lab Safety provides access to more than
100,000 products through its catalogs. In addition, customers can access
products using a CD-ROM version of the catalog or online via the Internet at
labsafety.com.

K-5

Integrated Supply

Effective 2001, this segment consists solely of Grainger's Integrated Supply division. In prior years, this
segment was called "Integrated Supply and Other Businesses" and included additional business units.

Integrated Supply

Integrated Supply serves customers who have chosen to outsource some or all
of their indirect materials management processes. The service offering enables
customers to focus on their core business objectives.

Integrated Supply offers a
full complement of on-site outsourcing solutions, including business process
reengineering, inventory and tool crib management, supply chain management,
purchasing management, and information management.

Industry Segments

For 2002 the Company is
reporting three industry segments: Branch-based Distribution, Lab Safety, and
Integrated Supply. For segment information and the Company’s consolidated
net sales and operating earnings see “Item 7: Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and
“Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The total
assets of the Company for the last five years were: 2002, $2,437 million; 2001,
$2,331 million; 2000, $2,460 million; 1999, $2,565 million; and 1998, $2,104
million.

Competition

The Company faces competition in all the markets it serves,
from manufacturers (including some of the Company’s own suppliers) that
sell directly to certain segments of the market, from wholesale distributors,
from catalog houses, from certain Internet-based businesses and product
fulfillment mechanisms, and from certain retail enterprises.

The principal means by
which the Company competes with manufacturers and other distributors are by
local stock availability, efficient service, account managers, competitive
pricing, its catalogs (which include product descriptions and in certain cases
extensive technical and application data), electronic and Internet commerce
technology, and other efforts to assist customers in lowering their total
facility maintenance costs. The Company believes that it can effectively compete
on a price basis with manufacturers on small orders, but that manufacturers may
enjoy a cost advantage in filling large orders.

The Company serves a number
of diverse markets and in some markets reasonably estimates the Company’s
competitive position within those markets. However, taken as a whole, the
Company is unable to determine its market share relative to others engaged in
whole or in part in similar activities.

Employees

As of December 31, 2002, the
Company had 15,236 employees, of whom 13,183 were full-time and 2,053 were
part-time or temporary. The Company has never had a major work stoppage and
considers employee relations to be good.

Web Site Access to Company Reports

The Company makes
available, free of charge, on or through its Web site, its Annual Report on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after this
material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. This material may be accessed by visiting the Investor
Relations section of the Company’s Web site at http://investor.grainger.com.

Item 2: Properties

As of December 31, 2002,
the Company’s owned and leased facilities totaled 17,564,000 square feet, a
decrease of about 2% from 2001. Industrial Supply and Acklands accounted for the
majority of the total square footage. Industrial Supply facilities are located
throughout the United States. Acklands facilities are located throughout Canada.

Industrial Supply branches
range in size from 1,200 to 109,000 square feet and average approximately 20,000
square feet. Most are located in or near major metropolitan areas with many
located in industrial parks. Typically, a branch is on one floor, is of masonry
construction, consists primarily of warehouse space, sales areas and offices and
has off-the-street parking for customers and employees. The Company considers
that its properties are generally in good condition, well maintained, and are
suitable and adequate to carry on the Company’s business.

K-6

The significant facilities
of the Company are briefly described below:

Item 3: Legal Proceedings

As of January 28, 2003, the
Company is named, along with numerous other non-affiliated companies, as a
defendant in approximately 600 lawsuits brought on behalf of approximately 1,110
named plaintiffs pending in the courts of various states. These lawsuits
typically involve claims of personal injury arising from alleged exposure to
products containing asbestos and allegedly distributed by the Company. From
January 1, 2002, to January 28, 2003, the Company has been dismissed from
approximately 60 similar lawsuits, typically because there has not been product
identification. The Company has denied, or intends to deny, the allegations in
the remaining lawsuits. If a specific product distributed by the Company is
identified in any of these lawsuits, the Company would attempt to exercise
indemnification remedies against the product manufacturer. In addition, the
Company believes that a substantial portion of these claims are covered by
insurance. The Company is engaged in active discussions with its insurance
carriers regarding the scope and amount of coverage. While the Company is unable
to predict the outcome of these lawsuits, it believes that the ultimate
resolution will not have, either individually or in the aggregate, a material
adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results
of operations.

Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted
to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2002.

K-7

Executive Officers of the Company

Following is information
about the Executive Officers of the Company including age in March 2003.
Executive Officers of the Company generally serve until the next annual election
of officers, or until earlier resignation or removal.

Name and Age

Positions and Offices Held and Principal Occupations and Employment During the Past Five Years

K-8

PART II

Item 5: Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters

The information required by
this item is incorporated by reference to the inside back cover of the
Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item 6: Selected Financial
Data

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to page
31 of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item 7: Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 21 to 30
of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

The information required by
this item is incorporated by reference to page 30 of the Company’s 2002
Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the
financial statements and report thereon by Grant Thornton LLP dated January 28,
2003, appearing on pages 31 to 58, and the supplementary data attached herein on
pages 15 to 16.

Item 9:  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

PART III

Item 10: Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information required by
this item regarding directors of the Company is incorporated by reference to the
Company’s proxy statement relating to the annual meeting of shareholders to
be held April 30, 2003, under the captions “Election of Directors,”
and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.” The
information required by this item regarding executive officers of the Company is
set forth in Part I of this report under the caption “Executive Officers of
the Company.”

Item 11: Executive Compensation

The information required by
this item is incorporated by reference to the Company’s proxy statement
relating to the annual meeting of shareholders to be held April 30, 2003, under
the captions “Director Compensation” and “Executive
Compensation.”

Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
the Company’s proxy statement relating to the annual meeting of
shareholders to be held April 30, 2003, under the captions “Ownership of
Grainger Stock” and “Equity Compensation Plans.”

Item 13: Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the Company’s proxy statement relating to the
annual meeting of shareholders to be held April 30, 2003, under the caption
“Director Compensation.”

Item 14: Controls and Procedures

(a)

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.

Within
the 90 days prior to the filing date of this report, the Company carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the
Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the
Company’s (including its consolidated subsidiaries) disclosure controls and
procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule13a-14. Based upon that evaluation, the
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

(b)

Changes in internal controls.

There
were no significant changes in the Company’s internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the
evaluation date.

K-9

PART IV

Item 15: Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K

K-10

K-11

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company
has duly issued this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

DATE: March 20, 2003

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company on March 20, 2003
in the capacities indicated.

K-12

CERTIFICATION

I, R. L. Keyser, certify that:

Date:

March 20, 2003

By:

/s/ R. L. Keyser

Name: R. L. Keyser

Title: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

K-13

CERTIFICATION

I, P. O. Loux, certify that:

Date:

March 20, 2003

By:

/s/ P.O. Loux

Name: P.O Loux

Title: Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer

K-14

K-15

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED

EXHIBIT 23

PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

We hereby consent to the incorporation of our report on page 31 of the Annual
Report by reference in the

prospectuses constituting part of the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos.
33-43902, 333-24215, 333-56362

and 333-61980) and on Form S-4 (No. 33-32091) of W.W. Grainger, Inc.

GRANT THORNTON LLP

Chicago, Illinois

March 20, 2003

K-16