Item 1A.Risk Factors

Our business faces many risks. Those risks which we are currently aware and we deem to be material
are described below. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors
occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may significantly suffer, and the
trading price of our common stock could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction
with the other information in this Form 10-K.

General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance.

Our results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact
consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Economic conditions affecting disposable
consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and
energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, the impact of natural disasters or acts of
terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their
spending to lower-priced competitors. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or
shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and
profitability. Additionally, changes in the mix of products sold to a mix with a lower overall
gross margin or other increased cost of sales, along with slower inventory turnover and greater
markdowns on inventory, could adversely affect our operations and operating results.

Purchase price volatility, including inflationary and deflationary pressures, may adversely affect
our financial performance.

Although we cannot determine the full effect of inflation and deflation on our operations, we
believe our sales and results of operations are affected by both. We are subject to market risk
with respect to the pricing of certain products and services, which include, among other items,
steel, grain, petroleum, corn, soybean and other commodities as well as transportation services.
Therefore, we may experience both inflationary and deflationary pressure on product cost, which may
impact consumer demand and, as a result, sales and gross margin. Additionally, significant
inflationary pressures could have an adverse affect on our last-in, first-out (LIFO) inventory
provision, which would negatively impact gross margin. Our strategy is to reduce or mitigate the
effects of purchase price volatility principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs,
economies of scale from increased volume of purchases, adjusting retail prices and selectively
buying from the most competitive vendors without sacrificing quality. Due to the competitive
environment, such conditions have and may continue to adversely impact our financial performance.

There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to increase sales at our existing stores.

We experience fluctuations in our same-store sales, which are defined as stores which have
completed twelve months of sales. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales
at our existing stores. Various factors affect same-store sales, including the general retail
sales environment, our ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in our
merchandise mix, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise
and promotional events, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors
may cause our same-
store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. Past same-store
sales are not necessarily an indication of future results, and there can be no assurance that our
same-store sales will not decrease in the future.





Our failure to effectively manage growth could impair our business.

Even if we are able to implement, to a significant degree, our key business strategy of expanding
our store base, we may experience managerial or operational problems, which may prevent any
expected increase in profitability or negatively impact our cash flow. To manage our planned
expansion, we must ensure the continuing adequacy of our existing systems, controls and procedures,
including product distribution facilities, store management, financial controls and information
systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion, that the
new stores will be effectively integrated into our existing operations or that such stores will be
profitable.

Capital requirements for growth may not be available.

The construction and opening or acquisition of new stores and the development of new production and
distribution facilities, along with the remodeling and renovation of existing stores, require
significant amounts of capital. In the past, our growth has been funded primarily through bank
borrowings and internally generated cash flow.

Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect the ability of the banks to
meet their commitments. Our access to funds under the credit facility is dependent on the ability
of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may
not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and
liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of
time.

Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or
increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could
adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us
to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit
arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include
deferring capital expenditures, and reducing or eliminating future share repurchases or other
discretionary uses of cash.

Failure to open new stores in the manner currently contemplated could adversely affect our
financial performance.

An integral part of our business strategy includes the expansion of our base of stores by opening
new stores. This expansion strategy is dependent on our ability to find suitable locations, and we
face competition from many retailers for such sites. If we are unable to implement this strategy,
our ability to increase our sales, profitability, and cash flow could be impaired significantly. To
the extent that we are unable to open new stores in the manner we anticipate (due to, among other
reasons, site approval or unforeseen delays in construction), our sales growth may be impeded.

New stores may negatively impact our results.

There can be no assurance that our new store openings will be successful or result in greater sales
and profitability for the Company. New stores build their sales volumes and refine their
merchandise selection over time and, as a result, generally have lower gross margins and higher
operating expenses as a percentage of sales than our more mature stores. As we continue to open new
stores, there may be a negative impact on our results from a lower contribution margin of these new
stores until their sales levels ramp to chain average, as well as from the impact of related
pre-opening costs.

Competition in our industry may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely
affect our operations.

We operate in a very competitive market. The principal competitive factors include location of
stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and
presentation, and customer service. We believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from
general merchandise retailers, home center retailers and other specialty and discount retailers by
focusing on our specialized market niche. However, we do face competition from these entities, as
well as competition from independently-owned retail farm and ranch stores, privately-held regional
farm store chains and farm cooperatives. Some of our competitors are units of national or regional
chains that have substantially greater financial and other resources.

Weather conditions may have a significant impact on our financial results.

Historically, weather conditions have had a significant impact on our operating results. Weather
conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases the supply of, products, which in turn has an
impact on prices. In past years, we have experienced extreme weather conditions, including snow
and ice storms, flood and wind damage, hurricanes, tornadoes and droughts in some states. Weather
conditions also directly affect the demand for seasonal products, particularly during the winter
heating season. Accordingly, the weather can have a material effect on our financial condition and
results of operations.





There are certain risks associated with the seasonal nature of our business.

Our working capital needs and borrowings generally peak in our first and third fiscal quarters
because lower sales are generated while expenses are incurred and inventory is increased in
preparation for the spring and winter selling seasons. If cash on hand and borrowings under
existing credit facilities are insufficient to meet the seasonal needs or if cash flow generated
during the spring and winter is insufficient to repay associated borrowings on a timely basis, this
seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business.

There is no assurance that our merchandising initiatives and marketing emphasis will provide
expected results.

We believe our past performance has been based on, and future success will depend upon, in part,
the ability to develop and execute merchandising initiatives with effective marketing. There is no
assurance that we will be successful, or that new initiatives will be executed in a timely manner
to satisfy our customers’ needs or expectations. Failure to execute and promote such initiatives
in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow the business and could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, our success depends on
our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demand and
preferences for merchandise. If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular
products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns. Shortages of key items could also
have a materially adverse impact on operating results.

We face risks associated with vendors from whom our products are sourced.

Our failure to attract and retain qualified team members could adversely affect our financial
performance.

Our ability to continue expanding operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large
and growing number of qualified team members. Our ability to meet labor needs while controlling
wage and related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of
a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage
rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment
legislation. If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or if costs of
labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be adversely
affected.

We may be subject to product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business.

Our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of
business. We maintain general liability insurance with a deductible for each occurrence and a
$33,000,000 aggregate retention applicable to all general liability and workers compensation
claims. We also maintain umbrella limits above the primary general liability and product liability
cover. In many cases, we have indemnification rights against the manufacturers of the products and
their products liability insurance. Our ability to recover under such insurance or indemnification
arrangements is subject to the financial viability of the insurers and manufacturers and the
specific allegations of a claim. No assurance can be given that our insurance coverage or the
manufacturers’ indemnity will be available or sufficient in any claims brought against us.

Legal proceedings could materially impact our results.

From time to time, we are party to legal proceedings including matters involving personnel and
employment issues, personal injury, intellectual property, and other proceedings arising in the
ordinary course of business. Our results could be materially impacted by the decisions and
expenses related to pending or future proceedings.





If we experience difficulties with our management information systems, our financial performance
may be adversely affected.

We depend on management information systems for many aspects of our business. We could be
materially adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are
unable to improve, upgrade, maintain and expand systems, particularly in light of the contemplated
continued store growth. Many of our information systems contain confidential customer, Company or
employee data. If we fail to adequately restrict access to this information, our financial
performance could be adversely affected.

Effective tax rate changes and results of examinations by taxing authorities could materially
impact our results.

Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the earnings mix being lower than
historical results in states where we have lower statutory rates and higher than historical results
in states where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the measurement of our deferred tax
assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are
subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other state
and local taxing authorities. Our results could be materially impacted by the determinations and
expenses related to these and other proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing
authorities.

Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could
materially impact our business and results.

The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can
provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.
Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints,
and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent
limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control
over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and
timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the
market price of our common stock.

Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management
related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial
condition.

Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation
guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our
business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment, inventories, lease obligations,
self-insurance, tax matters and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective
assumptions, estimates or judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in
underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected
financial performance or financial condition.



