Item 1A.Risk Factors



Our business faces many risks. Those risks of which we are currently aware and deem to be material are described below.  If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may significantly suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K.



General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance.

Our results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, the impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to lower-priced competitors. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and profitability.  Additionally, changes
in the mix of products sold to a mix with a lower overall gross margin or other increased cost of sales, along with slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory, could adversely affect our operations and operating results.



Purchase price volatility, including inflationary and deflationary pressures, may adversely affect our financial performance.

Although we cannot determine the full effect of inflation and deflation on our operations, we believe our sales and results of operations are affected by both.  We are subject to market risk with respect to the pricing of certain products and services, which include, among other items, steel, grain, petroleum, corn, cotton and other commodities as well as transportation services.  Therefore, we may experience both inflationary and deflationary pressure on product cost, which may impact consumer demand and, as a result, sales and gross margin.  Our strategy is to reduce or mitigate the effects of purchase price volatility principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs,
economies of scale from increased volume of purchases, adjusting retail prices and selectively buying from the most competitive vendors without sacrificing quality.  Due to the competitive environment, such conditions could adversely impact our financial performance.



We may be unable to increase sales at our existing stores.

We experience fluctuations in our same-store sales, which are defined as stores which have completed twelve months of sales.  Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales at our existing stores.  Various factors affect same-store sales, including the general retail sales environment, our ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in our merchandise mix, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions.  These factors may cause our same-store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations.  Past
same-store sales are not necessarily an indication of future results, and there can be no assurance that our same-store sales will not decrease in the future.



Our failure to effectively manage growth could impair our business.

Even if we are able to implement, to a significant degree, our key business strategy of expanding our store base, we may experience managerial or operational problems, which may prevent any expected increase in profitability or negatively impact our cash flow. To manage our planned expansion, we must ensure the continuing adequacy of our existing systems, controls and procedures, including product distribution facilities, store management, financial controls and information systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion, that the new stores will be effectively integrated into our existing operations or that such stores will be profitable.




Capital requirements for growth may not be available.

The construction and opening or acquisition of new stores and distribution facilities, along with the remodeling and renovation of existing stores, require significant amounts of capital. In the past, our growth has been funded primarily through bank borrowings and internally generated cash flow.  Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect the ability of the banks to meet their commitments.  Our access to funds under the credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments.  Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and
liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time.  In addition, tighter lending practices have made it more challenging for our real estate developers to obtain financing under reasonable loan terms and conditions.  Unfavorable lending trends could impact the timing of our store openings and materially adversely affect our ability to open new built-to-suit stores in desirable locations.



Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business.  Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged.  Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating future share repurchases, cash dividends or other discretionary uses of cash.



Failure to open new stores in the manner and number currently contemplated could adversely affect our financial performance.

An integral part of our business strategy includes the expansion of our base of stores by opening new stores. This expansion strategy is dependent on our ability to find suitable locations, and we face competition from many retailers for such sites.  If we are unable to implement this strategy, our ability to increase our sales, profitability, and cash flow could be impaired significantly. To the extent that we are unable to open new stores in the manner we anticipate (due to, among other reasons, site approval or unforeseen delays in construction), our sales growth may be impeded.



There can be no assurance that our new store openings will be successful or result in greater sales and profitability for the Company. New stores build their sales volumes and refine their merchandise selection over time and, as a result, generally have lower gross margins and higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales than our more mature stores. As we continue to open new stores, there may be a negative impact on our results from a lower contribution margin of these new stores until their sales levels ramp to chain average, if at all, as well as from the impact of related pre-opening costs.



Competition in our industry may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely affect our operations.

We operate in a very competitive market. The principal competitive factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service.  We believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from general merchandise retailers, home center retailers and other specialty and discount retailers by focusing on our specialized market niche. However, we do face competition from these entities, as well as competition from independently-owned retail farm and ranch stores, privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives.



Weather conditions may have a significant impact on our financial results.

Historically, weather conditions have had a significant impact on our operating results. Weather conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases the supply of, products, which in turn has an impact on prices.  In past years, we have experienced extreme weather conditions, including snow and ice storms, flood and wind damage, hurricanes, tornadoes and droughts in some states. Weather conditions also directly affect the demand for seasonal products, particularly during the winter heating season. Accordingly, the weather can have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.



Our merchandising initiatives and marketing emphasis may not provide expected results.

We believe our past performance has been based on, and future success will depend upon, in part, the ability to develop and execute merchandising initiatives with effective marketing.  There is no assurance that we will be successful, or that new initiatives will be executed in a timely manner to satisfy our customers’ needs or expectations.  Failure to execute and promote such initiatives in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow the business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demand and
preferences for merchandise.  If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns.  Shortages of key items could also have a materially adverse impact on operating results.



We face risks associated with vendors from whom our products are sourced.

The products we sell are sourced from a variety of domestic and international vendors.  As a general rule, we have agreements with our vendors in which the vendors agree to comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and to indemnify us against certain liabilities and costs.  Our ability to recover liabilities and costs under these vendor agreements is dependent upon the financial condition and integrity of the vendors.




We rely on foreign manufacturers for various products that we sell.  In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign sources.  We rely on long-term relationships with our suppliers but have no long-term contracts with such suppliers.  Our future success will depend in large measure upon our ability to maintain our existing supplier relationships or to develop new ones.  This reliance increases the risk of inadequate and untimely supplies of various products due to local political, economic, social, or environmental conditions, transportation delays, restrictive actions by foreign governments, or changes in United States laws and
regulations affecting imports or domestic distribution.  Our vendors may be forced to reduce their production, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which could make it difficult for us to serve the market’s needs and could have a material adverse effect on our business.



As an importer, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulations, economic disruptions, delays in shipments, transportation capacity and costs, currency exchange rates and changes in political or economic conditions in countries from which we purchase products.  If any such factors were to render the conduct of business in particular countries undesirable or impractical or if additional United States quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions were imposed upon the importation of our products in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.



We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and the anti-bribery laws of other jurisdictions.  Failure to comply with the FCPA could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Our failure to attract and retain qualified team members could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our ability to continue expanding operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified team members.  Our ability to meet labor needs while controlling wage and related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation.  If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or if costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be adversely affected.



We may be subject to product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business.

Our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business.  We maintain general liability and workers compensation insurance with self-insured retention for each policy type and a deductible for each occurrence.  We also maintain umbrella limits above the primary general liability and product liability coverage.  In many cases, we have indemnification rights against the manufacturers of the products and their products liability insurance.  Our ability to recover under such insurance or indemnification arrangements is subject to the financial viability of the insurers and manufacturers and the specific allegations of a claim.  No assurance can be
given that our insurance coverage or the manufacturers’ indemnity will be available or sufficient in any claims brought against us.



Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in, increased enforcement of, or adoption of new federal, state or local laws and regulations.

We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to environmental protection, personal injury, intellectual property, consumer product safety, building, land use and zoning requirements, workplace regulations, wage and hour, privacy and information security and employment law matters. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, or if these laws or regulations are violated by importers, manufacturers or distributers, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, while incurring substantial legal fees and costs. In addition, our capital expenditures could increase due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found
to be noncompliant with any existing or future laws or regulations.



A privacy breach could result in negative publicity and adversely affect the Company’s business.

The protection of customer, employee and Company data is critical to the Company.  The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements.  In connection with credit card sales, we transmit confidential credit card information.  Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures and those of our technology vendors may not effectively preclude others from obtaining improper access to this information.  Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability
and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation.




In addition, states and the federal government are increasingly enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft.  We collect personal information from consumers in the course of doing business.  These laws will likely increase the costs of doing business and, if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these new laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies, which could harm our business.



If we experience difficulties with our management information systems, our financial performance may be adversely affected.

We depend on management information systems for many aspects of our business.  We could be materially adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain and expand systems, particularly in light of the contemplated continued store growth.



If we are unable to secure or develop and implement sufficiently robust new technologies to deliver business process solutions within the appropriate time frame, cost and functionality, our strategic business initiatives that are dependent upon these technologies may not be successful.

The success of our strategic business initiatives designed to increase our sales and improve margin is dependent in varying degrees on the timely delivery and the functionality of information technology systems to support them.   Extended delays or cost overruns in securing, developing and otherwise implementing technology solutions to support the strategic business initiatives would delay and possibly even prevent us from realizing the projected benefits of those initiatives.



The implementation of our supply chain and technology initiatives could disrupt our operations in the near term, and these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might fail.

We have made, and we plan to continue to make, significant investments in our supply chain and technology. These initiatives are designed to streamline our distribution process so that we can optimize the delivery of goods and services to our stores and distribution centers in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost. The cost and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of these initiatives, including those associated with managing third-party service providers and employing new web-based tools and services, could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. In addition, our improved supply chain and new or upgraded technology might not provide the
anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits, or the initiatives might fail altogether.



Effective tax rate changes and results of examinations by taxing authorities could materially impact our results.

Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the earnings mix being lower than historical results in states where we have lower statutory rates and higher than historical results in states where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the measurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other state and local taxing authorities.  Like many retailers, a portion of our sales are to tax-exempt customers. The business activities of our customers and the intended use of the unique products sold by us create a challenging
and complex compliance environment.  These circumstances create risk that we could be challenged as to the propriety of our sales tax compliance. Our results could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related to these and other proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing authorities.



Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our business and results.

The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit
our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of our common stock.




