ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

Company
    Overview

We are a world leader in the design, manufacture and marketing
    of high-performance analog, mixed-signal and digital signal
    processing integrated circuits, or ICs, used in virtually all
    types of electronic equipment. Since our inception in 1965, we
    have focused on solving the engineering challenges associated
    with signal processing in electronic equipment. Our signal
    processing products translate real-world phenomena such as
    temperature, pressure, sound, light, speed and motion into
    electrical signals to be used in a wide array of electronic
    devices. Signal processing technology is a critical element of
    industrial, automotive, consumer, and communications
    applications. As new generations of digital applications evolve,
    they generate new needs for high-performance analog signal
    processing and digital signal processing technology. We produce
    a wide range of products that are designed to meet the signal
    processing technology needs of a broad base of customers.

Used by over 60,000 customers worldwide, our products are
    embedded inside many types of electronic equipment including:

• Industrial process controls

• Medical imaging equipment

• Factory automation systems

• Portable electronic devices

• Instrumentation

• Cellular basestations

• Energy management systems

• Wireless communications equipment

• Defense electronics

• Digital cameras

• Automobiles

• Digital televisions

The breakdown of our fiscal 2010 revenue by end market is set
    out in the table below.

Percent of

Total FY2010 ADI

End Market

Revenue*

Industrial


%

Automotive


%

Consumer


%

Communications


%

Computer


%

*

The sum of the individual percentages do not equal 100% due to
    rounding.

We sell our products worldwide through a direct sales force,
    third-party distributors and independent sales representatives
    and through our website. We have direct sales offices in 17
    countries, including the United States.

We were founded in 1965 and are incorporated in Massachusetts.
    Our headquarters are near Boston, in Norwood, Massachusetts, and
    we have manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts, Ireland, and
    the Philippines. Our common stock is listed on the New York
    Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the symbol ADI and is included in
    the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.

We maintain a website with the address www.analog.com. We are
    not including the information contained on our website as a part
    of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

We make available free of charge through our website our Annual
    Reports on

Form 10-K,

Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q

and Current Reports on

Form 8-K

(including exhibits), and amendments to these reports, as soon
    as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and
    Exchange Commission, or SEC. We also make available on our
    website our corporate governance guidelines, the charters for
    our audit committee, compensation committee, and nominating and
    corporate governance committee, our equity award granting
    policies, our code of business conduct and ethics which applies
    to our directors, officers and employees, and our related person
    transaction policy, and such information is available in print
    and free of charge to any shareholder of Analog Devices who
    requests it. In addition, we intend to disclose on our website
    any amendments



to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct and ethics
    that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of
    the SEC or the NYSE.

Industry
    Background

Electronic signals fall into one of two categories: analog or
    digital. Analog signals, also known as linear signals, represent
    real-world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound,
    light, speed and motion. This information can be detected and
    measured using analog sensors, which generate an electronic
    signal of continuously-varying voltages and currents. The
    signals from these sensors are initially processed using analog
    methods, such as amplification, filtering and shaping. They are
    then usually converted to digital form for storage or further
    manipulation. Digital signals represent the “ones” and
    “zeros” of binary arithmetic; the further manipulation
    of the signals after conversion to digital form is called
    “digital signal processing,” or DSP. Digital signals
    are often converted back to analog form for functions such as
    video display, audio output or control. We refer to these
    manipulations and transformations as “real-world signal
    processing.” Providing real-world signal processing
    solutions that achieve the customer’s desired performance
    generally involves working in multiple technology domains:
    analog and digital processing, sensors and transducers and power
    management.

New
    Organizational Structure in 2009: Product and Market
    Organizations

We implemented a new organizational structure at the end of 2009
    with the intention of optimizing our focus on the technologies
    we create and the markets we serve. We continue to operate with
    one reporting segment, but under the new organizational
    structure we have two separate groups, one focused on products
    and one focused on end markets. The product group is focused on
    core technology development and leadership in converters,
    amplifiers and radio frequency, or RF, micro-electromechanical
    sensors, or MEMS, power management, and DSP. The end
    market-focused organization is dedicated to understanding,
    selecting, and resourcing initiatives that are more customized
    to a particular market or application. The focus of this team is
    to apply the full expanse of our broad technology portfolio to
    more integrated and targeted product strategies for the
    industrial, healthcare, automotive, consumer, and communications
    infrastructure markets. The end market group includes our sales
    organization.

These two new groups collaborate at all levels. On the one hand,
    our product group develops key technology for use by the end
    market groups, which apply these technologies to specific
    applications. Equally important, the applications expertise
    within each end market group is used to enhance core technology
    development by our product group.

Principal
    Products

We design, manufacture and market a broad line of
    high-performance ICs that incorporate analog, mixed-signal and
    digital signal processing technologies. Our ICs are designed to
    address a wide range of real-world signal processing
    applications. Our product portfolio includes both
    general-purpose products used by a broad range of customers and
    applications, as well as application-specific products designed
    for specific clusters of customers in key target markets. By
    using readily available, high-performance, general-purpose
    products in their systems, our customers can reduce the time
    they need to bring new products to market. Given the high cost
    of developing more customized ICs, our standard products often
    provide a cost-effective solution for many low to medium volume
    applications. However, for some industrial, medical, automotive,
    consumer, and communications products, we focus on working with
    leading customers to design application-specific solutions. We
    begin with our existing core technologies in data conversion,
    amplification, RF, MEMS, power management and DSP, and devise a
    solution to more closely meet the needs of a specific customer
    or group of customers. Because we have already developed the
    core technology for our general-purpose products, we can create
    application-specific solutions quickly.



We produce and market several thousand products and operate in
    one reporting segment. Our ten highest revenue products, in the
    aggregate, accounted for approximately 9% of our revenue for
    fiscal 2010. A breakdown of our fiscal 2010 revenue by product
    category follows.

Percent of

Total FY2010 ADI

Product Category

Revenue

Converters


%

Amplifiers/ Radio frequency


%

Other analog


%

Power management & reference


%

Digital signal processing


%

Analog
    Products

Our analog IC technology has been the foundation of our business
    for over four decades, and we are one of the world’s
    largest suppliers of high-performance analog ICs. Our analog
    signal processing ICs are primarily high-performance devices,
    generally defined today as devices that support a minimum of
    12-bits of accuracy and a minimum of 50 megahertz of speed. The
    principal advantages these products have versus
    competitors’ products include higher accuracy, lower cost
    per function, smaller size, lower power consumption and fewer
    components, resulting in improved reliability. Our product
    portfolio includes several thousand analog ICs, any one of which
    can have as many as several hundred customers. Our analog ICs
    typically have long product life cycles. Our analog
    IC customers include both original equipment manufacturers,
    or OEMs, and customers who build electronic subsystems for
    integration into larger systems.

We derive the majority of our analog signal processing IC
    product revenue from sales of data converters and amplifiers. We
    are the industry’s leading supplier of data converter
    products. Data converters translate real-world analog signals
    into digital data and also translate digital data into analog
    signals. Data converters remain our largest and most diverse
    product family and an area where we are continuously innovating
    to enable our customers to redefine and differentiate their
    products. With the industry’s leading portfolio of ADCs

(analog-to-digital

converters) and DACs

(digital-to-analog

converters), our converter products combine sampling rates and
    accuracy with the low noise, power, price and small package size
    required by industrial, medical, automotive, consumer, and
    communications electronics. We are also a leading supplier of
    high-performance amplifiers. Amplifiers are used to condition
    analog signals and minimize noise. We provide high speed,
    precision, RF, broadband, instrumentation and other amplifiers.
    We also offer an extensive portfolio of comparators that are
    used in a wide variety of applications.

Our analog product line also includes a broad portfolio of RF
    ICs covering the entire RF signal chain from industry-leading
    high performance RF function blocks to highly integrated
    broadband and short-range single chip transceiver solutions. To
    date, we have sold our RF ICs principally for cellular
    infrastructure and

point-to-point

applications and have been focused on the high performance end
    of the market.

Also within our analog technology portfolio are products that
    use an advanced IC technology known in the industry as surface
    micromachining, which is used to produce semiconductor products
    known as micro-electromechanical systems, or MEMS. This
    technology enables us to build extremely small mechanical
    sensing elements on the surface of a chip along with supporting
    circuitry. In addition to incorporating an electromechanical
    structure, these devices also have analog circuitry for
    conditioning signals obtained from the sensing element. The
    integration of signal conditioning and MEMS is a unique feature
    of our products which we call
    iMEMS

®

.

    Our iMEMS product portfolio includes accelerometers used to
    sense acceleration, gyroscopes used to sense rotation, and MEMS
    microphones used to capture audio sounds. The majority of our
    current revenue from MEMS products is derived from automotive
    manufacturers, industrial customers, and consumer customers.

Power management and reference products make up the balance of
    our analog sales. Whether the product is plugged into the wall
    or runs on batteries, every electronic device requires some form
    of power management, which can include converters, battery
    chargers, charge pumps, and regulators. We leverage our leading
    analog signal



technology to devise innovative high-performance power
    management ICs, high-reliability infrastructure equipment and
    battery-operated portable medical, communications and consumer
    devices.

Digital
    Signal Processing Products

Digital Signal Processors (DSPs) complete our product portfolio.
    DSPs are optimized for high-speed numeric calculations, which
    are essential for instantaneous, or real-time, processing of
    digital data generated, in most cases, from analog to digital
    signal conversion. Our DSP products are designed to be fully
    programmable and to efficiently execute specialized software
    programs, or algorithms, associated with processing digitized
    real-time, real-world data. Programmable DSPs provide the
    flexibility to modify the device’s function quickly and
    inexpensively using software. Our general-purpose DSP IC
    customers typically write their own algorithms using software
    development tools that we provide and software development tools
    they obtain from third-party suppliers. Our DSPs are designed in
    families of products that share a common architecture and
    therefore can execute the same software. We support these
    products with easy-to-use development tools, which are designed
    to reduce our customers’ product development costs and

time-to-market.

Markets
    and Applications

The following describes some of the characteristics of, and
    customer products within, our major end markets:

Industrial

— Our industrial market
    includes the following sectors:

Industrial and Instrumentation

— Our industrial
    automation applications generally require ICs that offer
    performance greater than that available from
    commodity-level ICs but generally do not have production
    volumes that warrant custom or application-specific ICs.
    Combinations of analog, mixed-signal, and DSP ICs are usually
    employed to achieve the necessary functionality. Our
    instrumentation applications are usually designed using the
    highest performance analog and mixed-signal ICs available. Our
    industrial and instrumentation market includes applications such
    as:

• Process control systems

• Oscilloscopes

• Robotics

• Lab, chemical, and environmental analyzers

• Environmental control systems

• Weigh scales

Defense/Aerospace

— The defense, commercial
    avionics and space markets all require high-performance ICs that
    meet rigorous environmental and reliability specifications. Many
    of our analog ICs can be supplied in versions that meet these
    standards. In addition, many products can be supplied to meet
    the standards required for broadcast satellites and other
    commercial space applications. Most of our products sold in this
    market are specifically tested versions of products derived from
    our standard product offering. Customer products include:

• Navigation systems

• Radar systems

• Space and satellite communications

• Security devices

Energy Management

— The desire to improve
    energy efficiency, conservation, reliability, and cleanliness is
    driving investments in renewable energy, power transmission and
    distribution systems, electric meters, and other innovative
    areas. The common characteristic behind these efforts is the
    addition of sensing, measurement, and communication technologies
    to electrical infrastructure. Our offerings include both
    standard and application-specific products and are used in
    applications such as:

• Utility meters

• Wind turbines

• Meter communication modules

• Solar inverters

• Substation relays and automation equipment

• Building energy automation/control

Healthcare

— Two significant trends in the
    healthcare market today are the increasing need for higher
    channel counts in medical systems to improve resolution and
    throughput while achieving a lower cost per channel, and the
    movement of highly accurate patient monitoring devices to the
    home, improving patient care and reducing overall healthcare
    costs. Our innovative technologies are designed into a variety
    of high performance imaging, patient



monitoring, medical instrumentation, and home health devices.
    Our offerings include both standard and application-specific
    products and are used in applications such as:

• Ultrasound

• Infusion pumps

• CT scanners

• Clinical lab instrumentation

• Digital x-ray

• Surgical instrumentation

• Multi-parameter patient monitors

• Blood analyzers

• Pulse oximeters

• Activity monitors

Automotive

— The automotive industry
    relies on electronics to bring differentiated features to market
    quickly. As a result, electronic equipment content is continuing
    to increase as a percentage of total vehicle cost. In the
    automotive market, we have achieved significant market
    penetration through collaboration with manufacturers worldwide
    to drive innovation in three key areas: safety systems, power
    train electronics, and infotainment (which includes
    entertainment, communications and navigation systems). We offer
    a wide portfolio of analog ICs used in powertrain and body
    electronics applications designed to help improve fuel
    efficiency and lower emissions. We have developed products
    specifically for the automotive market which are used in such
    applications as:

• Crash sensors in airbag systems

• “Smart” suspension systems

• Roll-over sensing

• Engine control

• Global positioning satellite (GPS)

• In-cabin electronics

• Automotive navigation systems

• Audio

• Anti-lock brakes

• Collision avoidance systems

Consumer

— Market demand for digital
    entertainment systems and the consumer demand for high quality
    voice transmissions, music, movies and photographs have allowed
    us to combine analog and digital design capability to provide
    solutions that meet the rigorous cost requirements of the
    consumer electronics market. The emergence of high-performance,
    feature-rich consumer products has created a market for our
    high-performance ICs with a high level of specific
    functionality. These products include:

• Digital camcorders and cameras

• High-performance audio/video equipment

• Home theater systems

• Portable media devices

• High-definition televisions

• High-definition DVD recorders/players

Communications

— The development of
    broadband, wireless and Internet infrastructures around the
    world has created an important market for our communications
    products. Communications technology involves the acquisition of
    analog signals that are converted from analog to digital and
    digital to analog form during the process of transmitting and
    receiving data. The need for higher speed and reduced power
    consumption, coupled with more reliable, bandwidth-efficient
    communications, has been creating demand for our products. Our
    products are used in the full spectrum of signal processing for
    audio, data, image and video communication. In wireless and
    broadband communication applications, our products are
    incorporated into:

•

Cellular basestation equipment

•

Cellular handsets

•

Wired networking equipment

Computer

— Revenues from computer
    customers now comprise only a small percentage of our total
    revenue given the limited opportunity for high performance
    signal processing technology in this market.

See Note 4 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for further information about our products by category and end
    market.

Research
    and Development

Our markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and
    advances. Accordingly, we make substantial investments in the
    design and development of new products and manufacturing
    processes, and the improvement of existing products and
    manufacturing processes. We spent approximately
    $492 million during fiscal 2010 on the design, development
    and improvement of new and existing products and manufacturing
    processes, compared to approximately $447 million during
    fiscal 2009 and approximately $533 million during fiscal
    2008.



Our research and development strategy focuses on building
    technical leadership in core technologies of converters,
    amplifiers and RF, MEMS, power management, and DSP. In support
    of our research and development activities, we employ thousands
    of engineers involved in product and manufacturing process
    development at 33 design centers and manufacturing sites located
    throughout the world.

Patents
    and Other Intellectual Property Rights

We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our
    technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights,
    mask works, trademarks and trade secrets. We have a program to
    file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, mask works
    and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign
    countries where we believe filing for such protection is
    appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and
    confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through
    the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have
    obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the
    United States and in other countries. As of October 30,
    2010, we held approximately 1,600 U.S. patents and
    approximately 560 non-provisional pending U.S. patent
    applications. There can be no assurance, however, that the
    rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing
    products in every jurisdiction. While our patents, copyrights,
    mask works, trademarks and trade secrets provide some advantage
    and protection, we believe our competitive position and future
    success is largely determined by such factors as the system and
    application knowledge, innovative skills, technological
    expertise and management ability and experience of our
    personnel; the range and success of new products being developed
    by us; our market brand recognition and ongoing marketing
    efforts; and customer service and technical support. It is
    generally our policy to seek patent protection for significant
    inventions that may be patented, though we may elect, in certain
    cases, not to seek patent protection even for significant
    inventions, if we determine other protection, such as
    maintaining the invention as a trade secret, to be more
    advantageous. We also have trademarks that are used in the
    conduct of our business to distinguish genuine Analog Devices
    products and we maintain cooperative advertising programs to
    promote our brands and identify products containing genuine
    Analog Devices components.

Sales
    Channels

We sell our products globally through a direct sales force,
    third-party distributors, independent sales representatives and
    via our website.

We derived approximately 56% of our fiscal 2010 revenue from
    sales made through distributors. These distributors typically
    maintain an inventory of our products. Some of them also sell
    products which compete with our products, including those for
    which we are an alternate source. In all regions of the world,
    we defer revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to
    distributors until the distributors resell the products to their
    customers. We make sales to distributors under agreements that
    allow distributors to receive price adjustment credits and to
    return qualifying products for credit, as determined by us, in
    order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or
    obsolete product from their inventory. These agreements limit
    such returns to a certain percentage of our shipments to that
    distributor during the prior quarter. In addition, distributors
    are allowed to return unsold products if we terminate the
    relationship with the distributor. Additional information
    relating to our sales to distributors is set forth in
    Note 2n. in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

The categorization of sales into geographic regions set forth
    below is based upon the location of the customer.

Geographic Area

% of 2010 Revenue

Direct Sales Offices

United States


%


Rest of North/South America


%

—

Europe


%


Japan


%


China


%


Rest of Asia


%


We also have sales representatives

and/or

distributors in over 40 countries outside North America,
    including countries where we also have direct sales offices. For
    further detail regarding revenue and financial information



about our industry, segment and geographic areas, see our
    Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 4 in the related
    Notes contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

We support our worldwide technical direct field sales efforts by
    an extensive promotional program that includes editorial
    coverage and paid advertising in trade publications, direct mail
    programs, promotional brochures, technical seminars and
    participation in trade shows. We publish and distribute product
    catalogs, applications guides, technical handbooks and detailed
    data sheets for individual products. We also provide this
    information and sell products via our website. We maintain a
    staff of field application engineers who aid customers in
    incorporating our products into their products.

We have tens of thousands of customers worldwide. Our largest
    single customer, excluding distributors, represented
    approximately 4% of our fiscal 2010 revenue. Our 20 largest
    customers, excluding distributors, accounted for approximately
    32% of our fiscal 2010 revenue. These customers used hundreds of
    different types of our products in a wide range of applications
    spanning the industrial, automotive, communication, consumer and
    computer markets.

Seasonality

Sales to customers during our first fiscal quarter may be lower
    than other quarters due to plant shutdowns at some of our
    customers during the holiday season. In general, the seasonality
    for any specific period of time has not had a material impact on
    our results of operations. In addition, as explained in our risk
    factors included elsewhere in this report, our revenue is more
    likely to be influenced on a quarter to quarter basis by
    cyclicality in the semiconductor industry.

Foreign
    Operations

Through subsidiaries and affiliates, we conduct business in
    numerous countries outside the United States. During fiscal
    2010, we derived approximately 81% of our revenue from customers
    in international markets. Our international business is subject
    to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations,
    including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and
    controls, import and export controls, and other laws, policies
    and regulations of foreign governments. Although we engage in
    hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to currency exchange
    rate fluctuations, our competitive position may be adversely
    affected by changes in the exchange rate of the
    United States dollar against other currencies.

Production
    and Raw Materials

Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a
    sequence of semiconductor production steps that include wafer
    fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the wafer into individual
    “chips,” or dice, assembly of the dice into packages
    and electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form.
    The raw materials used to manufacture these devices include
    silicon wafers, processing chemicals (including liquefied
    gases), precious metals and ceramic and plastic used for
    packaging.

We develop and employ a wide variety of proprietary
    manufacturing processes that are specifically tailored for use
    in fabricating high-performance analog, DSP, mixed-signal and
    MEMS ICs. We also use bipolar and complementary metal-oxide
    semiconductor, or CMOS, wafer fabrication processes.

Our IC products are fabricated both at our production facilities
    and by third-party wafer fabricators. Our products are
    manufactured in our own wafer fabrication facilities using
    proprietary processes and at third-party wafer-fabrication
    foundries using

sub-micron

digital CMOS processes. A significant portion of our revenue in
    fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 was from products fabricated at
    third-party wafer-fabrication facilities, primarily Taiwan
    Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC. We operate wafer
    fabrication facilities in Wilmington, Massachusetts and
    Limerick, Ireland. We closed our wafer fabrication facility in
    Cambridge, Massachusetts at the end of fiscal 2009. We also
    operate test facilities located in the Philippines and use
    third-party subcontractors for the assembly and testing of our
    products.

Capital spending was $111.6 million in fiscal 2010,
    compared with $56.1 million in fiscal 2009. We currently
    plan to make capital expenditures in the range of approximately
    $120 million to $130 million in fiscal 2011.



Our products require a wide variety of components, raw materials
    and external foundry services, most of which we purchase from
    third-party suppliers. We have multiple sources for many of the
    components and materials that we purchase and incorporate into
    our products. However, a large portion of our external wafer
    purchases and foundry services are from a limited number of
    suppliers, primarily TSMC. If TSMC or any of our other key
    suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver
    sufficient quantities of components to us, on the time schedule
    and of the quality that we require, we may be forced to seek to
    engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result
    in significant expenses and disruptions or delays in
    manufacturing, product development and shipment of product to
    our customers. Although we have experienced shortages of
    components, materials and external foundry services from time to
    time, these items have generally been available to us as needed.

Backlog

Backlog at the end of fiscal 2010 was approximately
    $563 million, up from approximately $411 million at
    the end of fiscal 2009. We define backlog as of a particular
    date to mean firm orders from a customer or distributor with a
    requested delivery date within thirteen weeks. Backlog is
    impacted by the tendency of customers to rely on shorter lead
    times available from suppliers, including us, in periods of
    depressed demand. In periods of increased demand, there is a
    tendency towards longer lead times that has the effect of
    increasing backlog and, in some instances, we may not have
    manufacturing capacity sufficient to fulfill all orders. As is
    customary in the semiconductor industry, we allow most orders to
    be cancelled or deliveries to be delayed by customers without
    significant penalty. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog at
    any time should not be used as an indication of our future
    revenue.

We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our
    customers. In some of our markets where end-user demand may be
    particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers
    place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it
    available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to
    make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the
    product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on
    forecasts of customer demand. As a result, we may incur
    inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated
    sales and are subject to the risk of cancellation of orders
    leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further,
    those orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the
    customer’s unique requirements so that those cancelled
    orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable
    products, resulting in potential inventory write-offs. As a
    result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for some of our products
    that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of
    unsaleable product could be substantial.

Government
    Contracts

We estimate that approximately 4% of our fiscal 2010 revenue was
    attributable to sales to the U.S. government and
    U.S. government contractors and subcontractors. Our
    government contract business is predominantly in the form of
    negotiated, firm fixed-price subcontracts. All such contracts
    and subcontracts contain standard provisions relating to
    termination at the election of the U.S. government.

Acquisitions,
    Divestitures and Investments

An element of our business strategy involves expansion through
    the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies
    that allow us to complement our existing product offerings,
    expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce
    or enhance our technological capabilities. From time to time, we
    consider acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen our
    business.

Additional information relating to our acquisition and
    divestiture activities during fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and
    fiscal 2008 is set forth in Note 2u. and Note 6 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
    Item 8 of this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.



Competition

We compete with a number of semiconductor companies in markets
    that are highly competitive. Our competitors include:

• Broadcom Corporation

• Microchip Technology, Inc.

• Cirrus Logic, Inc.

• National Semiconductor Corporation

• Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.

• NXP Semiconductors

• Infineon Technologies

• ST Microelectronics

• Intersil Corporation

• Silicon Laboratories, Inc.

• Linear Technology Corporation

• Texas Instruments, Inc.

• Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

We believe that competitive performance in the marketplace for
    real-world signal processing components depends upon several
    factors, including design and quality of products, product
    performance, features and functionality, and product pricing,
    availability and capacity, with the relative importance of these
    factors varying among products, markets and customers. We
    believe our technical innovation emphasizing product performance
    and reliability, supported by our commitment to strong customer
    service and technical support, enables us to compete in our
    chosen markets against both foreign and domestic semiconductor
    manufacturers.

Many other companies offer products that compete with our
    products, and some have greater financial, manufacturing,
    technical and marketing resources than we have. Some of our
    competitors may have better established supply or development
    relationships with our current and potential customers.
    Additionally, some formerly independent competitors have been
    purchased by larger companies. Our competitors also include
    emerging companies selling specialized products into markets we
    serve. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete
    successfully in the future against existing or new competitors,
    or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by
    increased price competition.

Environment,
    Health and Safety

We are committed to protecting the environment and the health
    and safety of our employees, customers and the public. We
    endeavor to adhere to applicable environmental, health and
    safety (EHS) regulatory and industry standards across all of our
    facilities, and to encourage pollution prevention, reduce our
    water and energy consumption, reduce waste generation, and
    strive towards continual improvement. We strive to achieve
    excellence in EHS management practices as an integral part of
    our total quality management system.

Our management systems are certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001,
    ISO 9001 and TS16949. We are an applicant member of the
    Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, or EICC. In fiscal
    2009, we published our first Sustainability Report, which stated
    our commitment to consuming less energy and applying fair labor
    standards, among other things. We are not including the
    information contained in our Sustainability Report in, or
    incorporating it by reference into this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous and
    increasingly strict federal, state local and foreign EHS laws
    and regulations, particularly with respect to the
    transportation, storage, handling, use, emission, discharge and
    disposal of certain chemicals used or produced in the
    semiconductor manufacturing process. Our products are subject to
    increasingly stringent regulations regarding chemical content in
    jurisdictions where we sell products, including the Restriction
    of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation,
    Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) directives in
    the European Union. Contracts with many of our customers reflect
    these and additional EHS compliance standards. Compliance with
    these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our
    capital expenditures, earnings, financial condition or
    competitive position. There can be no assurance, however, that
    current or future environmental laws and regulations will not
    impose costly



requirements upon us. Any failure by us to comply with
    applicable environmental laws, regulations and contractual
    obligations could result in fines, suspension of production, the
    need to alter fabrication processes and legal liability.

Employees

As of October 30, 2010, we employed approximately 8,500
    individuals worldwide. Our future success depends in large part
    on the continued service of our key technical and senior
    management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract,
    retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those
    highly-skilled design, process, test and applications engineers
    involved in the design, support and manufacture of new and
    existing products and processes. We believe that relations with
    our employees are good; however, the competition for such
    personnel is intense, and the loss of key personnel could have a
    material adverse impact on our results of operations and
    financial condition.


