10-K


h22314e10vk.htm

WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.- DECEMBER 31, 2004

e10vk

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Commission file number 1-12154

Waste Management, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code: (713) 512-6200

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

5.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulations S-K
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Securities Exchange Act of
1934).     Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of the voting stock
held by non-affiliates of the registrant at June 30, 2004,
was approximately $17.7 billion. The aggregate market value
was computed by using the closing price of the common stock as
of that date on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).
(For purposes of calculating this amount only, all directors and
executive officers of the registrant have been treated as
affiliates.)

The number of shares of Common Stock,
$0.01 par value, of the registrant outstanding at
February 11, 2005 was 568,473,943 (excluding treasury
shares of 61,808,518).

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


PART I

Item 1.

Business.

General

The financial statements in this report represent
the consolidation of Waste Management, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, its majority-owned subsidiaries and entities
required to be consolidated pursuant to the Financial Accounting
Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Interpretation
No. 46,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

(“FIN 46”). Waste Management, Inc. is a
holding company that conducts all of its operations through its
subsidiaries. The terms “the Company,” “we,”
“us” or “our” refer to Waste Management,
Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. When we use the term
“WMI,” we are referring only to the parent holding
company.

We are the leading provider of integrated waste
services in North America. Through our subsidiaries we provide
collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and
disposal services. We are also a leading developer, operator and
owner of waste-to-energy facilities in the United States. Our
customers include commercial, industrial, municipal and
residential customers, other waste management companies,
electric utilities and governmental entities. During 2004, none
of our customers accounted for more than 1% of our operating
revenue. We employed approximately 51,000 people as of
December 31, 2004.

Our parent company was incorporated in Oklahoma
in 1987 under the name “USA Waste Services, Inc.” and
was reincorporated as a Delaware company in 1995. In a 1998
merger, Waste Management, Inc., an Oakbrook, Illinois based
waste services company, became a 100% owned subsidiary and
changed its name to Waste Management Holdings, Inc. At the same
time, our parent company changed its name to Waste Management,
Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 1001 Fannin
Street, Suite 4000, Houston, Texas 77002. Our telephone
number at that address is (713) 512-6200. Our website
address is http://www.wm.com. Our annual reports on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current
reports on Form 8-K are all available, free of charge, on
our website as soon as practicable after we file the reports
with the SEC. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol “WMI.”

Strategy

Under varying economic conditions, we must
achieve operational excellence in order to be successful for our
stockholders. Due to challenging economic conditions in recent
years, our principal operational focus was on reducing our cost
structure. Now that we have seen economic conditions improve, we
are focusing our operations on a combination of growth,
productivity improvements and continued cost cutting. Our plan
for growth will be grounded in margin expansion from better
pricing while continuing to cut costs, and we will apply a
disciplined approach to growing our returns from new capital
investments.

We will pursue operational excellence by focusing
on what we are doing well, particularly by focusing on the areas
of safety, maintenance and productivity. We are committed to
finding the best practices throughout our organization and
standardizing those practices and processes throughout the
Company. We recently announced a landfill pricing study at 30 of
our landfills, where we will gather and analyze information to
assist us in understanding the reactions to our price increases
in various markets in the United States and Canada.
Additionally, we are continuing to put in place information
systems that will provide our people with the necessary
resources to make better decisions. To determine which practices
work, and which do not, we rely heavily on our people in the
field. We are also giving local management more latitude to
apply our best practices in their specific circumstances.
Finally, we believe that we can achieve operational excellence
by continuing to focus on our core business and related
services. Our goal is to be best in class, and we have initiated
several programs and efforts to ensure that we provide the
highest level of service to our customers.

We are sustained by our strategic assets. We have
a large North American presence, including 286 landfills
that we own or operate, which we intend to use to distinguish
our Company from our competition. We plan to continue to do that
through such programs as our National Accounts. Our national
presence and


our experience allow us to provide large,
multi-location commercial and industrial customers with a single
point of contact for nation-wide services at competitive
pricing. Additionally, we intend to grow our In-Plant Services
model, where we use our skills and resources to manage
customers’ waste needs by having our employees work on-site
to reduce waste, increase recycling and lower overall costs of
disposal, and to provide innovative waste service solutions.

We also intend to continue to use the cash that
we generate to reinvest in our business through capital
expenditures, using a disciplined process to make investments in
those locations and lines of business that offer superior
margins and return on capital. We will continue our tuck-in
acquisition program, primarily seeking collection operations
that overlay our existing route structure and are strategically
located near our existing disposal sites. Permitted landfills,
transfer stations or waste-to-energy facilities are also
attractive acquisition candidates. At the same time, we are
reviewing our under performing operations and assessing them for
opportunities to improve their performance. We expect that there
may be no easy solutions for certain of these under-performing
operations, and we may elect to seek exit strategies, which may
include exiting lines of businesses, not renewing or bidding on
certain contracts, or offering certain assets for sale to others.

We have developed goals for our Company for 2005
and beyond that are designed to help us achieve operational
excellence. These goals were developed around the concept of
providing service to, fostering relationships with, or otherwise
benefiting five key stakeholders:

By focusing on these key stakeholders, we believe
we can achieve our goal of operational excellence. We have
developed the following goals, objectives and initiatives around
our stakeholders:


2005 through 2007. Additionally, the Board of
    Directors announced that it expects dividends to be
    $0.20 per share per quarter beginning in 2005. All future
    dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of
    Directors, and future repurchases of common stock are to be made
    at the discretion of management. Future dividend declarations
    and share repurchases depend on various factors, including our
    net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future
    prospects and other relevant factors. On January 28, 2005,
    the Board declared our first quarterly dividend under the
    program of $0.20 per share, which will be paid on
    March 24, 2005 to stockholders of record as of
    March 1, 2005.

Operations

General

We manage and evaluate our operations through
seven operating Groups, five of which are organized by
geographic area and the other two of which are organized by
function. The geographic Groups include our Eastern, Midwest,
Southern, Western and Canadian Groups, and our two functional
Groups are the Recycling and Wheelabrator Groups. These seven
operating Groups represent our reportable segments.

These reportable segments, when combined with
certain other operations not managed through any of the seven
Groups, comprise our North American Solid Waste, or
“NASW,” operations. NASW, our core business, provides
integrated waste management services consisting of collection,
disposal (solid and hazardous waste landfills), transfer,
waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production
plants that are managed by Wheelabrator, recycling and other
services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential
customers throughout the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada.
The operations not managed through our seven Groups, which
include third-party sub-contracted services managed by our
national accounts organization, methane gas recovery, rentals
and other miscellaneous services, are presented in this report
as “Other NASW.”

The table below shows the total revenues (in
millions) contributed annually by each of our reportable
segments in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements, the 2003 and 2002 information has been presented in
conformity with our current year presentation. More information
about our results of operations by reportable segment is
included in Note 20 to the consolidated financial
statements and in the

Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

included in this report.

NASW

The services provided by our NASW segments
include collection, landfill (solid and hazardous waste
landfills), transfer, Wheelabrator (waste-to-energy facilities
and independent power production plants),


recycling, and other services, as described
below. The following table shows revenues (in millions)
contributed by these services for each of the three years
indicated:

Collection.

Our
commitment to customers begins with a vast waste collection
network. Collection involves picking up and transporting waste
from where it was generated to a transfer station or disposal
site. We generally provide collection services under two types
of arrangements:

•

For commercial and industrial collection
    services, typically we have a one to three-year service
    agreement. The fees under the agreements are influenced by
    factors such as collection frequency, type of collection
    equipment furnished by us, type and volume or weight of the
    waste collected, distance to the disposal facility, labor costs,
    cost of disposal and general market factors. As part of the
    service, we provide steel containers to most of our customers to
    store their solid waste between pick-up dates. Containers vary
    in size and type according to the needs of our customers or
    restrictions of their communities and are designed so that they
    can be lifted mechanically and either emptied into a
    truck’s compaction hopper or directly into a disposal site.
    By using these containers, we can service most of our commercial
    and industrial customers with trucks operated by only one
    employee.

•

For most residential collection services, we have
    a contract with, or a franchise granted by, a municipality or
    regional authority that gives us the exclusive right to service
    all or a portion of the homes in an area. These contracts or
    franchises are typically for periods of one to five years. We
    also provide services under individual monthly subscriptions
    directly to households. The fees for residential collection are
    either paid by the municipality or authority from their tax
    revenues or service charges, or are paid directly by the
    residents receiving the service.

Landfill.

Landfills
are the main depositories for solid waste in North America and
we have the largest network of landfills in North America. Solid
waste landfills are built and operated on land with geological
and hydrological properties that limit the possibility of water
pollution, and are operated under prescribed procedures. A
landfill must be maintained to meet federal, state or provincial
and local regulations. The operation and closure of a solid
waste landfill includes excavation, construction of liners,
continuous spreading and compacting of waste, covering of waste
with earth or other inert material and constructing final
capping of the landfill. These operations are carefully planned
to maintain sanitary conditions, to maximize the use of the
airspace and to prepare the site so it can ultimately be used
for other purposes.

All solid waste management companies must have
access to a disposal facility, such as a solid waste landfill.
We believe it is usually preferable for our collection
operations to use disposal facilities that we own or operate, a
practice we refer to as internalization, rather than using third
party disposal facilities. Internalization generally allows us
to realize higher consolidated margins and stronger operating
cash flows. The fees charged at disposal facilities, which are
referred to as tipping fees, are based on several factors,
including competition and the type and weight or volume of solid
waste deposited.

We also operate secure hazardous waste landfills
in the United States. Under federal environmental laws, the
federal government (or states with delegated authority) must
permit all hazardous waste landfills. All of our hazardous waste
landfills have obtained the required permits, although some can
accept only certain types of hazardous waste. These landfills
must also comply with specialized operating standards. Only
hazardous


waste in a stable, solid form, which meets
regulatory requirements, can be deposited in our secure disposal
cells. In some cases, hazardous waste can be treated before
disposal. Generally, these treatments involve the separation or
removal of solid materials from liquids and chemical treatments
that transform wastes into inert materials that are no longer
hazardous. Our hazardous waste landfills are sited, constructed
and operated in a manner designed to provide long-term
containment of waste. We also operate a hazardous waste facility
at which we isolate treated hazardous wastes in liquid form by
injection into deep wells that have been drilled in rock
formations far below the base of fresh water to a point that is
separated by other substantial geological confining layers.

We owned or operated 281 solid waste and five
hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2004 compared
with 284 solid waste landfills and five hazardous waste
landfills at December 31, 2003. The landfills that we
operate but do not own are generally operated under a lease
agreement or an operating contract. The differences between the
two arrangements usually relate to the owner of the landfill
operating permit. Generally, with a lease agreement, the permit
is in our name and we operate the landfill for its entire life,
making payments to the lessor, who is generally a private
landowner, based either on a percentage of revenue or a rate per
ton of waste received. We are generally responsible for closure
and post-closure requirements under our lease agreements. For
operating contracts, the owner of the property, generally a
municipality, usually owns the permit and we operate the
landfill for a contracted term, which may be the life of the
landfill. The property owner is generally responsible for
closure and post-closure obligations under our operating
contracts.

Based on remaining permitted capacity as of
December 31, 2004 and projected annual disposal volumes,
the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our
owned or operated landfills is approximately 27 years. Many
of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal
capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the
availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our
landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given
landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices,
remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion
permit. We are currently seeking expansion permits at 73 of our
landfills for which we consider expansions to be likely.
Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions
will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average
remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is
approximately 36 years when considering remaining permitted
capacity, the expansion capacity we consider likely and
projected annual disposal volume. At December 31, 2004 and
2003, the expected remaining capacity in cubic yards and tonnage
of waste that can be accepted at our owned or operated landfills
is shown below (in millions):


The following table reflects landfill capacity
and airspace changes, as measured in tons of waste, for
landfills owned or operated by us during the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003 (in millions):

a)

Changes in engineering estimates result in either
    changes to the available remaining landfill capacity in terms of
    volume or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity,
    affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future.
    Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the
    future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a
    number of factors, including standard engineering techniques,
    historical data and improvements in landfill operational
    procedures. We continually focus on improving the utilization of
    airspace through efforts that include recirculating landfill
    leachate where allowed by permit, optimizing the placement of
    daily cover materials and increasing initial compaction through
    improved landfill equipment, operations and training.
    Additionally, future airspace utilization may be affected by
    changes in the types of waste materials received at our
    landfills.

The number of landfills we own or operate
segregated by their estimated operating lives (in years), based
on remaining permitted and probable expansion capacity and
projected annual disposal volume as of December 31, 2004,
were as follows:

The volume of waste, as measured in tons, that we
received in 2004 and 2003 at all of our landfills is shown below
(tons in thousands):


(c)

These amounts include approximately
    2.2 million tons at December 31, 2004 and
    1.1 million tons at December 31, 2003 that were
    received at our landfills but were used for beneficial purposes
    and were generally redirected from the permitted airspace to
    other areas of the landfill. Waste types that are frequently
    identified for beneficial use include green waste for composting
    and clean dirt for on-site construction projects.

When a landfill we own or operate
(i) reaches its permitted waste capacity; (ii) is
permanently capped and (iii) receives certification of
closure from the applicable regulatory agency, management of the
site, including any remediation activities, is generally
transferred to our closed sites management group. At
December 31, 2004, we managed 174 closed landfills.

Transfer.

At
December 31, 2004, we owned or operated 381 transfer
stations in North America. We deposit waste at these stations,
as do other third-party waste haulers. At these stations, the
solid waste is consolidated and compacted to reduce the volume
and increase the density of the waste. The waste is then
transported by transfer trucks or by rail to disposal sites.

Access to transfer stations is often critical to
third party haulers who do not operate their own disposal
facilities in close proximity to their collection operations.
Fees charged to third parties at transfer stations are usually
based on the type and volume or weight of the waste transferred,
the distance to the disposal site and general market factors.

The utilization of our transfer stations by our
own collection operations improves internalization by allowing
us to retain fees that we would otherwise pay to third parties
for the disposal of the waste we collect. It allows us to manage
costs associated with waste disposal because (i) transfer
trucks, railcars or rail containers have larger capacities than
collection trucks, allowing us to deliver more waste to the
disposal facility in each trip; (ii) waste is compacted at
transfer stations, which increases the efficiency of our
collection personnel and equipment because they are able to
focus on collection activities rather than making trips to
disposal sites; and (iii) we can maintain the volume by
managing the transfer of the waste to one of our disposal sites.

The transfer stations that we operate but do not
own are generally operated through lease agreements under which
we lease property from third parties. There are some instances
where transfer stations are operated under contract, generally
for municipalities. In most cases we own the permits and will be
responsible for all of the regulatory requirements in accordance
with the lease and operating agreements terms.

Wheelabrator.

Through Wheelabrator, we own or operate 17 waste-to-energy
facilities that are located in 11 states in the Northeast,
Florida, California and Washington. Our waste-to-energy
facilities are capable of processing up to 24,200 tons of solid
waste each day. In 2004, our waste-to-energy facilities received
approximately 7.8 million total tons, or approximately
21,300 tons per day, compared to approximately 7.7 million
total tons, or approximately 21,200 tons per day, in 2003. The
solid waste is burned at high temperatures in specially designed
boilers at these facilities, producing heat that is converted
into high-pressure steam. We use that steam to generate
electricity for sale to electric utilities under long-term
contracts.

Our Wheelabrator operations also include six
independent power production plants that convert various waste
and conventional fuels into electricity and steam. The plants
burn wood waste, anthracite coal waste (culm), tires, landfill
gas and natural gas. These facilities are integral to the solid
waste industry, disposing of urban wood, waste tires, railroad
ties and utility poles. Our anthracite culm facility in
Pennsylvania processes the waste materials left over from coal
mining operations from over half a century ago. Ash remaining
after burning the culm is used to reclaim the land damaged by
decades of coal mining. In addition to electricity production,
the plants also produce steam, which is sold to industrial and
commercial users.

Fees at our waste-to-energy facilities and
independent power production plants are influenced by the market
rates for electricity and steam, type and volume of waste
received and other general market factors.

Recycling.

Our
Recycling Group is comprised of Recycle America Alliance, L.L.C.
(“RAA”). RAA was formed in January 2003 to improve the
sustainability and future growth of recycling programs and
includes certain recycling assets transferred from our
geographic operating Groups as well as assets acquired from the
Peltz Group, who maintained approximately nine percent of the
equity interest in RAA as of


December 31, 2004. In addition to our
Recycling Group, our five geographic operating Groups provide
certain recycling services that are embedded within the
Groups’ other operations and therefore were not transferred
to RAA.

Recycling involves the separation of reusable
materials from the waste stream for processing and resale or
other disposition. Our recycling operations include the
following:

Recycling fees are influenced by frequency of
collection, type and volume or weight of the recyclable
material, degree of processing required, the market value of the
recovered material and other market factors.

Our Recycling Group purchases recyclable
materials processed in our MRFs from various sources, including
third parties and other operating subsidiaries of WMI. The cost
per ton of material purchased is based on market prices and the
cost to transport the product to our customers. The price our
Recycling Group pays for recyclable materials is often referred
to as a “rebate” and is based upon the price we
receive for sales of finished goods and local market conditions.
As a result, higher commodity prices increase our revenues and
increase the rebates we pay to our suppliers.

Other NASW.

We
provide in-plant services, in which we outsource our employees
to provide full service waste management to customers at their
plants. Our vertically integrated waste management operations
allow us to provide these customers with full management of
their waste, including identifying recycling opportunities,
minimizing their waste, determining the most efficient means
available for waste collection and transporting and disposing of
their waste.

We also develop, operate and promote projects for
the beneficial use of landfill gas through our Waste Management
Renewable Energy Program. The natural breakdown of waste
deposited in a landfill produces landfill gas. The methane
component of the landfill gas is a readily available, renewable
energy source that can be gathered and used beneficially as an
alternative to fossil fuel for a number of industrial and
commercial applications. We actively pursue landfill gas
beneficial use projects and at December 31, 2004 we were
producing commercial quantities of methane gas at 90 of our
solid waste landfills. For 57 of these landfills, the processed
gas is delivered to electricity generators. The electricity is
then sold to public utilities, municipal utilities or power
cooperatives. For 29 landfills, the gas is delivered by
pipeline to industrial customers as a


direct substitute for fossil fuels in industrial
processes such as steam boilers, cement kilns and utility
plants. At four landfills, the landfill gas is processed to
pipeline-quality natural gas and then sold to natural gas
suppliers.

In addition, as part of our Other NASW
operations, we rent and service portable restroom facilities to
municipalities and commercial customers under the name
Port-O-Let®, and provide street and parking lot sweeping
services.

Competition

The solid waste industry is very competitive.
Competition comes from a number of publicly held solid waste
companies, private solid waste companies, large commercial and
industrial companies handling their own waste collection or
disposal operations and public and private waste-to-energy
companies. We also have competition from municipalities and
regional government authorities with respect to residential and
commercial solid waste collection and solid waste landfills. The
municipalities and regional governmental authorities can
subsidize the cost of service through the use of tax revenues
and tax-exempt financing and therefore have a competitive
advantage.

Operating costs, disposal costs and collection
fees vary widely throughout the geographic areas in which we
operate. The prices that we charge are determined locally, and
typically vary by the volume and weight, type of waste
collected, treatment requirements, risk of handling or disposal,
frequency of collections, distance to final disposal sites,
labor costs and amount and type of equipment furnished to the
customer. We face intense competition based on quality of
service and pricing. Under certain customer service contracts,
our ability to pass on cost increases to our customers may be
limited. From time to time, competitors may reduce the price of
their services and accept lower margins in an effort to expand
or maintain market share or to successfully obtain competitively
bid contracts.

Employees

At December 31, 2004 we had approximately
51,000 full-time employees, of which approximately 7,900
were employed in administrative and sales positions and the
balance in operations. Approximately 14,500 of our employees are
covered by collective bargaining agreements that we negotiate
with unions.

Financial Assurance and Insurance
Obligations

Financial Assurance

Financial assurance is generally required in
municipal and governmental waste service contracts. It is also a
requirement for obtaining or retaining disposal site or transfer
station operating permits. Municipal and governmental waste
management contracts typically require performance bonds or bank
letters of credit to secure performance. We are also required to
provide various forms of financial assurance for estimated
closure, post-closure and remedial obligations at our landfills.

We establish financial assurance in different
ways, depending on the jurisdiction, including escrow- accounts
funded by revenues during the operational life of a facility,
letters of credit, surety bonds, trust agreements and insurance.
Although the supply of surety bonds has become increasingly
limited in recent years, we have not experienced any
unmanageable difficulty in obtaining the financial assurance
instruments


required for our current operations. The
following table summarizes the various forms and dollar amounts
(in millions) of financial assurance that we had outstanding as
of December 31, 2004:

The assets held in our funded trust and escrow
accounts may be drawn and used to meet the closure, post-closure
and remedial obligations for which the trusts and escrows were
established. Other than these


permitted draws on funds, virtually no claims
have been made against our financial assurance instruments in
the past, and considering our current financial position,
management does not expect there to be claims against these
instruments that will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial statements. In an ongoing effort to
mitigate the risks of future cost increases and reductions in
available capacity, we are continually evaluating various
options to access cost-effective sources of financial assurance.

Insurance

We also carry a broad range of insurance
coverages, including general liability, automobile liability,
real and personal property, workers’ compensation,
directors’ and officers’ liability, pollution legal
liability and other coverages we believe are customary to the
industry. Our exposure to loss for insurance claims is generally
limited to the per incident deductible under the related
insurance policy. Our general liability, workers’
compensation and auto insurance programs have per incident
deductibles of $2.5 million, $1 million and $20,000,
respectively. Except as discussed in Notes 4 and 10 to the
consolidated financial statements, we do not expect the impact
of any known casualty, property, environmental or other
contingency to be material to our financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows.

Regulation

Our business is subject to extensive and evolving
federal, state or provincial and local environmental, health,
safety and transportation laws and regulations. These laws and
regulations are administered by the Environmental Protection
Agency (“EPA”) and various other federal, state and
local environmental, zoning, transportation, land use, health
and safety agencies in the United States and various agencies in
Canada. Many of these agencies regularly examine our operations
to monitor compliance with these laws and regulations and have
the power to enforce compliance, obtain injunctions or impose
civil or criminal penalties in case of violations.

Because the major component of our business is
the collection and disposal of solid waste in an environmentally
sound manner, a significant amount of our capital expenditures
is related, either directly or indirectly, to environmental
protection measures, including compliance with federal, state or
provincial and local provisions that regulate the discharge of
materials into the environment. There are costs associated with
siting, design, operations, monitoring, site maintenance,
corrective actions, financial assurance, and facility closure
and post-closure obligations. In connection with our
acquisition, development or expansion of a disposal facility or
transfer station, we must often spend considerable time, effort
and money to obtain or maintain necessary required permits and
approvals. There cannot be any assurances that we will be able
to obtain or maintain necessary governmental approvals. Once
obtained, operating permits are subject to modification and
revocation by the issuing agency. Compliance with these and any
future regulatory requirements could require us to make
significant capital and operating expenditures. However, most of
these expenditures are made in the normal course of business and
do not place us at any competitive disadvantage.

The primary United States federal statutes
affecting our business are summarized below:

•

The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of
    1976, as amended (“RCRA”), regulates handling,
    transporting and disposing of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes
    and delegates authority to states to develop programs to ensure
    the safe disposal of solid wastes. In 1991, the EPA issued its
    final regulations under Subtitle D of RCRA, which set forth
    minimum federal performance and design criteria for solid waste
    landfills. These regulations must be implemented by the states,
    although states can impose requirements that are more stringent
    than the Subtitle D standards. We incur costs in complying with
    these standards in the ordinary course of our operations.

•

The Comprehensive Environmental Response,
    Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended
    (“CERCLA”), which is also known as Superfund, provides
    for federal authority to respond directly to releases or
    threatened releases of hazardous substances into the
    environment. CERCLA’s primary means for addressing such
    releases is to impose liability for cleanup of disposal sites
    upon current and former site owners and operators, generators of
    the hazardous substances at the site and transporters who
    selected the disposal site and transported substances thereto.
    Liability under CERCLA is not


There are also various state or provincial and
local regulations that affect our operations. Sometimes
states’ regulations are more strict than comparable federal
laws and regulations. Additionally, our collection and landfill
operations could be affected by legislative and regulatory
measures requiring or encouraging waste reduction at the source
and waste recycling.

Various states have enacted, or are considering
enacting, laws that restrict the disposal, within the state, of
solid waste generated outside the state. While laws that overtly
discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be
unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory
have been upheld in court. Additionally, certain state and local
governments have enacted “flow control” regulations,
which attempt to require that all waste generated within the
state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. In
1994, the United States Supreme Court ruled that a flow control
ordinance was unconstitutional. However, other courts have
refused to apply the Supreme Court precedent in various
circumstances. In addition, from time to time, the United States
Congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt
regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of
out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. These congressional
efforts have to date been unsuccessful. The United States
Congress’ adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on
interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction
waste or certain types of flow control, the adoption of
legislation affecting interstate transportation of waste at the
state level, or the courts’ interpretation or validation of
flow control legislation could adversely affect our solid waste
management services.

Many states, provinces and local jurisdictions
have enacted “fitness” laws that allow the agencies
that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits
to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the
applicant or permit holder’s compliance history. Some
states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and
consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or
affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit
holder. These laws authorize the agencies to make determinations
of an applicant or


permit holder’s fitness to be awarded a
contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit
because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the
applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the
adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in
place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and
regulations.

See Note 4 to the consolidated financial
statements for disclosures relating to our current assessments
of the impact of regulations on our current and future
operations.

Factors Influencing Future Results and
Accuracy of Forward-Looking Statements

When we make statements containing projections
about our accounting and finances, plans and objectives for the
future, future economic performance or when we make statements
containing any other projections or estimates about our
assumptions relating to these types of statements, we are making
forward-looking statements. These statements usually relate to
future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or
other aspects of our operations or operating results. We make
these statements in an effort to keep stockholders and the
public informed about our business and have based them on our
current expectations about future events. You should view such
statements with caution. These statements are not guarantees of
future performance or events. All phases of our business are
subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of
which we do not control. Any of these factors, either alone or
taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and
could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately
turns out to be true. Additionally, we assume no obligation to
update any forward-looking statement as a result of future
events or developments. The following discussion should be read
together with the consolidated financial statements and the
notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Outlined below are some of the risks that we face
and that could affect our business and financial position for
2005 and beyond. However, they are not the only risks that we
face. There may be additional risks that we do not presently
know of or that we currently believe are immaterial which could
also impair our business and financial position.

The waste industry is highly competitive,
    and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our
    business, financial condition and operating results may be
    materially adversely affected.

We encounter intense competition from
governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all
aspects of our operations. In North America, the industry
consists of large national waste management companies, and local
and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources.
We compete with these companies as well as with counties and
municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and
disposal operations. These counties and municipalities may have
financial competitive advantages because tax revenues and
tax-exempt financing are available to them. Also, such
governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other
restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage.

In addition, competitors may reduce their prices
to expand sales volume or to win competitively bid contracts.
When this happens, we may rollback prices or offer lower pricing
to attract or retain our customers, resulting in a negative
impact to our yield on base business.

If we are unable to successfully manage our
    costs, our income from operations could be lower than
    expected.

In recent years, we have implemented several
profit improvement initiatives aimed at lowering our costs and
enhancing our revenues, and continue to seek ways to reduce our
selling, general and administrative and operating expenses.
While we have generally been successful in reducing our selling,
general and administrative costs, managing subcontractor costs
and managing the effect of fuel price increases, these
initiatives may not be sufficient. Even as our revenues
increase, if we are unable to control variable costs or
increases to our fixed costs in the future, we will be unable to
maintain or expand our margins. In recent periods, rising
employee-related costs and expenses, including health care and
other employee benefits such as unemployment insurance and
workers’ compensation have negatively impacted our measures
to reduce costs.


The seasonal nature of our business and
    changes in general and local economic conditions cause our
    quarterly results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not
    necessarily indicative of our future results.

Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher
in the summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of
construction and demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and
residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend
to increase during the summer months. Our second and third
quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect
these seasonal trends. Additionally, certain destructive weather
conditions that tend to occur during the summer, such as the
hurricanes experienced during the third quarter of 2004,
actually increase our revenues in the areas affected, although,
for several reasons, including the increased use of
subcontractors, such revenues tend to be low margin. Conversely,
harsh winter weather conditions may result in the temporary
suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the
operating results of those periods. The operating results of our
first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance
expenses because we rely on the slower winter months for
scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities.

Additionally, our business is affected by changes
in national and general economic factors that are also outside
of our control, including interest rates and consumer
confidence. We have approximately $3.2 billion of debt as
December 31, 2004 that is exposed to changes in market
interest rates because of the combined impact of our variable
rate tax-exempt bonds and our interest rate swap agreements.
Therefore, any increase in interest rates can significantly
increase our expenses. Additionally, although our services are
of an essential nature, a weak economy generally results in
decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our
revenues. We also face risks related to other adverse external
factors, such as the ability of our insurers to meet their
commitments timely and the effect that significant claims or
litigation against insurance companies may have on such ability.

Any of the factors described above could
materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash
flows. Additionally, due to these, and other factors, operating
results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of
operating results for an entire year, and operating results for
any historical period are not necessarily indicative of
operating results for a future period.

We cannot predict with certainty the extent
    of future costs under environmental, health and safety laws, and
    cannot guarantee that they will not be material.

We could be liable if our operations cause
environmental damage to our properties or to the property of
other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination
of drinking water sources or soil. Under current law, we could
even be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed
before we acquired the assets or operations involved. Also, we
could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal
or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental
contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements
and under applicable law we are treated as a successor to the
prior owner. Any substantial liability for environmental damage
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.

In the ordinary course of our business, we have
in the past, and may in the future, become involved in a variety
of legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and
environmental laws and regulations. These include proceedings in
which:

•

agencies of federal, state, local or foreign
    governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable
    statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for
    violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we
    need; and

•

local communities and citizen groups, adjacent
    landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a
    permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits
    under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are
    subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental
    damage.

We generally seek to work with the authorities or
other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any
issues raised. If we are not successful, the adverse outcome of
one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other
things, material increases in our costs or liabilities.


The waste industry is subject to extensive
    government regulation, and any such regulations, or new
    regulations, could restrict our operations or increase our costs
    of operations.

Stringent government regulations at the federal,
state, provincial, and local level in the United States and
Canada have a substantial impact on our business. A large number
of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern
environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning,
transportation and related matters. Among other things, they may
restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing
conditions such as:

Regulations also affect the siting, design and
closure of landfills and could require us to undertake
investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or
close landfills temporarily or permanently. Future changes in
these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or
replace equipment or facilities. The costs of complying with
these regulations could be substantial.

In order to develop, expand or operate a landfill
or other waste management facility, we must have various
facility permits and other governmental approvals, including
those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use.
The permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming
and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit
operations.

Significant increases in fuel prices for
    any extended periods of time will increase our operating
    expenses.

The price and supply of fuel are unpredictable,
and can fluctuate significantly based on international political
and economic circumstances, as well as other events outside our
control, such as actions by OPEC and other oil and gas
producers, regional production patterns and environmental
concerns. In the past two years, the year-over-year changes in
the average quarterly fuel prices have ranged from an increase
of 41% to a decrease of 2%. We need fuel to run our collection
and transfer trucks and equipment used in our landfill
operations, and price escalations or reductions in the supply
will likely increase our operating expenses and have a negative
impact on income from operations and cash flows. We have in
place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased
fuel expenses; however, we are not able to pass through all of
the increased costs and some customers’ contracts prohibit
any pass through of the increased costs. Additionally, as fuel
prices increase, many of our vendors raise their prices as a
means to offset their own rising costs. We may initiate other
programs or means to guard against the rising costs of fuel.

We have substantial financial assurance and
    insurance, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate
    financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance
    coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase
    our liabilities.

The amount of insurance required to be maintained
for environmental liability is governed by statutory
requirements. We believe that the cost for such insurance is
high relative to the coverage it would provide, and therefore,
our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum
statutorily required levels. We face the risk of incurring
liabilities for environmental damage if our insurance coverage
is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. We also carry a
broad range of insurance coverages that are customary for a
company our size. We use these programs to mitigate risk of
loss, thereby allowing us to manage our self-insurance exposure
associated with claims. To the extent our insurers were unable
to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims
were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse
effect to our financial results.

In addition, to fulfill our financial assurance
obligations with respect to environmental closure and
post-closure liabilities, we generally obtain letters of credit
or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance,
or fund trust and escrow accounts. We currently have in place
all necessary financial assurance


instruments. We do not anticipate any
unmanageable difficulty in obtaining financial assurance
instruments in the future. We are aware of recent increases in
the cost of surety bonds. However, in the event we are unable to
obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or
third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or
more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate
coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial
assurance. These types of financial assurance could be more
expensive to obtain, which could negatively impact our liquidity
and capital resources and our ability to meet our obligations as
they become due.

The possibility of disposal site
    developments, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not
    being completed or certain other events could result in a
    material charge against our earnings.

In accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances
relating to disposal site development, expansion projects,
acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. If
a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined
to be impaired, a pending acquisition is not completed, a
development or expansion project is not completed or is
determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any
unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to
such facility, acquisition or project. We reduce the charge
against earnings by any portion of the capitalized expenditures
and advances that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale
or otherwise.

In future periods, we may be required to incur
charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or due
to other events that cause impairments. Depending on the
magnitude, any such charges could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations.

Our revenues will fluctuate based on
    changes in commodity prices.

Our recycling operations process for sale certain
recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all
of which are subject to significant price fluctuations. The
majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper
fibers, including old corrugated cardboard (“OCC”),
and old newsprint (“ONP”). We enter into commodity
price derivatives in an effort to mitigate some of the
variability in cash flows from the sales of recyclable materials
at floating prices. In the past three years, the year-over-year
changes in the quarterly average market prices for OCC ranged
from a decrease of as much as 37% to an increase of as much as
131%. The same comparisons for ONP have ranged from a decrease
of as much as 20% to an increase of as much as 64%. These
fluctuations can affect future operating income and cash flows.
Additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to
suppliers, based on the market prices of commodities we
purchase. Therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based
on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay
will also increase.

Additionally, there may be significant price
fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other
energy related products that are marketed and sold by our
landfill gas recovery, waste-to-energy and independent power
production plant operations. The marketing and sales of energy
related products by our landfill gas and waste-to-energy
operations are generally pursuant to long-term sales agreements.
Therefore, market fluctuations do not have a significant effect
on these operations in the short-term. However, revenues from
our independent power production plants can be affected by price
fluctuations. In the past two years, the year-over-year changes
in the average quarterly electricity prices have ranged from
increases of as much as 7% to decreases of as much as 4%.

The development and acceptance of
    alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to-energy facilities
    could reduce our ability to operate at full
    capacity.

Our customers are increasingly using alternatives
to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting. In
addition, some state and local governments mandate recycling and
waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of
certain types of wastes, such as yard wastes, at landfills or
waste-to-energy facilities. Although such mandates are a useful
tool to protect our environment, these developments reduce the
volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to-energy
facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to


operate our landfills and waste-to-energy
facilities at full capacity, as well as the prices that we can
charge for landfill disposal and waste-to-energy services.

Efforts by labor unions to organize our
    employees could divert management’s attention and increase
    our operating expenses.

Labor unions constantly make attempts to organize
our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the
future. Certain groups of our employees have already chosen to
be represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective
bargaining agreements with some of the groups. Additional groups
of employees may seek union representation in the future, and,
if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining
agreements could divert management attention and result in
increased operating expenses and lower net income. If we are
unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements,
work stoppages, including strikes, could ensue. Depending on the
type and duration of any labor disruptions, our operating
expenses could increase significantly, which could adversely
affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.

Currently pending or future litigation or
    governmental proceedings could result in material adverse
    consequences, including judgments or settlements.

We are currently involved in civil litigation and
governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our
business. The timing of the final resolutions to these matters
is uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions
to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements,
either of which could require substantial payments, adversely
affecting our liquidity.

Unforeseen circumstances could result in a
    need for additional capital.

We currently expect to meet our anticipated cash
needs for capital expenditures, acquisitions and other cash
expenditures with our cash flows from operations and, to the
extent necessary, additional financings. However, our Board of
Directors has approved a new capital allocation program that
provides for up to $1.2 billion in aggregate dividend
payments and share repurchases each year during 2005, 2006 and
2007. Materially adverse events could reduce our cash flows from
operations. In such an event, we could be forced to reduce
capital expenditures, acquisition activity, share repurchase
activity or dividend declarations. In these circumstances we may
elect to incur more indebtedness. If we made such an election,
there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain
additional financings on acceptable terms. In these
circumstances, we would likely use our revolving credit facility
to meet our cash needs.

Our credit facility requires us to comply with
certain financial covenants. In the event our interest expense
is more than expected due to higher interest rates or our ratio
of debt to earnings (as per the credit facility terms) is more
than expected, we may not be in compliance with the covenants.
This would result in a default under our credit facility. If we
were unable to obtain waivers or amendments to the credit
facility, the lenders could choose to declare all outstanding
borrowings immediately due and payable, which we may not be able
to pay in full. Default under our credit agreements or
unavailability of this capital source could have a material
adverse effect on our ability to meet our borrowing and
financial assurance needs.

We are increasingly dependent on technology
    in our operations and if our technology fails, our business
    could be adversely affected.

We may experience problems with our information
technology systems that could adversely affect, or even
temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until
resolved. These problems could be with respect to the operation
of our current systems, or the implementation of new systems.
Additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to
timely collect and report financial results in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.


We may experience adverse impacts on our
    results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting
    standards or interpretations.

Our implementation of and compliance with changes
in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and
interpretations, could adversely affect our operating results or
cause unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results in
future periods.

Item 2.

Properties.

Our principal executive offices are in Houston,
Texas, where we lease approximately 390,000 square feet
under leases expiring at various times through 2010. We also
have field-based administrative offices in Arizona, Illinois,
Pennsylvania, New Hampshire, Georgia and Ontario, Canada. We own
or lease real property in most locations where we have
operations. We have operations in each of the fifty states other
than Montana and Wyoming. We also have operations in the
District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and throughout Canada.

Our principal property and equipment consist of
land (primarily landfills and other disposal facilities,
transfer stations and bases for collection operations),
buildings, vehicles and equipment. We believe that our vehicles,
equipment, and operating properties are adequately maintained
and sufficient for our current operations. However, we expect to
continue to make investments in additional equipment and
property for expansion, for replacement of assets, and in
connection with future acquisitions. For more information, see
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations included within this report.

The following table summarizes our various
operations at December 31 for the periods noted:

(a)

Includes a landfill in Ontario, Canada that was
    held-for-sale at December 31, 2004 and divested in January
    2005. Refer to Note 24 to the consolidated financial
    statements for information regarding the divestiture.

The following table provides certain information
by Group regarding the 248 landfills owned or operated
through lease agreements and a count, by Group, of contracted
disposal sites as of December 31, 2004:

a)

Total acreage includes permitted acreage,
    probable expansion acreage, other acreage available for future
    disposal that has not been permitted, buffer land and other land
    owned by our landfill operations.


b)

Permitted acreage consists of all acreage at the
    landfill encompassed by an active permit to dispose of waste.

c)

Probable expansion acreage consists of
    unpermitted acreage where the related expansion efforts meet our
    criteria to be included as likely expansions. A discussion of
    the related criteria is included within the section Critical
    Accounting Estimates and Assumptions included herein.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings.

Information regarding our legal proceedings can
be found under the “Litigation” section of
Note 10 in the consolidated financial statements included
in this report.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders.

We did not submit any matters to a vote of our
stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2004.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities.

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “WMI.”
The following table sets forth the range of the high and low per
share sales prices for our common stock as reported on the NYSE:

On February 11, 2005, the closing sale price
as reported on the NYSE was $29.77 per share. The number of
holders of record of our common stock at February 11, 2005
was 18,465.

We declared and paid cash dividends of
$0.01 per share, or approximately $6 million, during
2002 and 2003. In August 2003, we announced that our Board of
Directors approved a capital allocation program that included a
quarterly dividend program beginning in 2004. We declared and
paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.1875 per share each
quarter in 2004 for a total of approximately $432 million.

In February 2002, we announced that our Board of
Directors had approved a stock repurchase program pursuant to
which up to $1 billion of shares of our common stock could
be purchased each year through 2004. In August 2003, we
announced that beginning in 2004, the $1 billion approved
would be available for stock


repurchases and a quarterly dividend program. All
of our equity repurchases in 2004 have been made pursuant to
that program. The following table summarizes our fourth quarter
2004 activity:

Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data.

The information below was derived from the
audited consolidated financial statements included in this
report and in reports we have previously filed with the SEC.
This information should be read together with those consolidated
financial statements and the notes to the consolidated financial
statements. The adoption of new accounting pronouncements,
changes in certain accounting policies and certain
reclassifications impact the comparability of the financial
information presented below. These historical results are not
necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in the
future.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

This section includes a discussion of our
operations for the three years ended December 31, 2004.
This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that
anticipate results based on management’s plans that are
subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various
factors that could cause actual results to differ from
expectations in Item 1 of this report, under the section
“Factors Influencing Future Results and Accuracy of
Forward-Looking Statements.” The following discussion
should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the
consolidated financial statements and the notes to the
consolidated financial statements.

Overview

We had some positive experiences in 2004, but
also some challenges. Volumes were generally strong throughout
2004, providing the most significant volume-related revenue
growth we had seen in a few years. While generating revenue
growth from pricing remained difficult, we experienced a
positive change in yield on base business in 2004. We had
reasonable success with price increases to existing customers in
our collection line of business in most markets. However, we
continue to experience increased pricing competition in our
collection operations, characterized by offers from competitors
to our customers to provide the same services at much lower
prices than we are charging and by lower average rates being
offered by the competition on new business bids. This was
especially prevalent in the Midwest Group. Additionally, we
experienced declines in yield from 2003 to 2004 for our landfill
operations, due largely to competitive pricing on special waste,
although those declines were partially offset by increased
municipal solid waste pricing.

Although we saw an economic recovery in 2004 that
brought with it increased volumes, we did not experience
significantly increased pricing. We previously implemented a
pricing model for our collection operations, and recently
announced a landfill pricing study. Pursuant to this study, we
chose 30 landfills at which we will be increasing pricing
on municipal solid waste and construction and demolition waste.
The objective is to gather and analyze information to help us
better understand the reactions to the increases, which will
help us to manage our pricing in the future.

We also had continued success in implementing our
operational excellence initiatives during 2004. In the area of
safety, we launched Mission to Zero in late 2000 with the
objective of promoting zero tolerance for unsafe actions,
conditions and attitudes across the organization. Our goal is to
attain world-class safety for the protection of our employees,
customers and communities. We continue to see improvements in
both our total recordable incident rate and hourly accident
recordable rate, which are the metrics we use to measure our
success in attaining this goal. We also continued to make
progress in 2004 in the area of fleet maintenance and route
optimization. The metric we use for our fleet maintenance is
maintenance cost per driver hour, which we try to improve
through basic planning and scheduling of maintenance work as
well as enhanced training. For our route optimization
initiative, we use a proprietary software application called
WasteRoute, designed to help us organize our routes more
efficiently. We believe the optimization initiative has resulted
in improved productivity as we continue to reduce the number of
routes. Our plans going forward are to institutionalize the best
practices we have identified to support our future productivity
improvement.

In 2004, we experienced increases in operating
expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses as
compared with the prior year. However, these costs as a
percentage of revenues remained relatively flat, which we
believe demonstrates the effectiveness of our cost reduction
programs in these areas. We experienced the increases in
operating expenses that are expected as a result of increased
revenues. The biggest drivers increasing costs of operations
were increased subcontractor costs as a result of higher
volumes, some of which came from the hurricane clean up work,
higher costs of goods sold, fuel costs and an increase in the
cost of steel. Our costs of goods sold include rebates made by
the Recycling Group to suppliers, and are based on market prices
of recyclable commodities. Fuel costs also increased during the
year, although a significant portion of those costs were offset
through our fuel surcharges to customers. The increase in
dollars spent in 2004 on selling, general and administrative
costs related to increased salaries and wages and increased
commissions and bonuses, which are a result of the overall
improvement in our operating results. Additionally, we
experienced increased professional fees as a result of our
compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and increased litigation, defense and indemnification costs
related to legal matters.


We believe that the production of free cash flow
is a very important measure of our liquidity and operating
results as it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly
dividends, repurchase stock and execute our acquisition program.
Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under
generally accepted accounting principles and is not intended to
replace the consolidated statement of cash flows that was
prepared in accordance with GAAP. We generated approximately
$1.06 billion in free cash flow for the year ended
December 31, 2004. Free cash flow is calculated by
subtracting capital expenditures from net cash provided by
operating activities, and adding to that the proceeds from
divestitures, net of cash divested, and other sales of assets,
as shown in the following table (in millions):

We are projecting full-year 2005 free cash flow
to be in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion,
based on estimated net cash provided by operating activities
being in the range of $2.25 billion to $2.35 billion,
capital expenditures between $1.25 billion and
$1.35 billion, and proceeds from divestitures and other
sales of assets of $125 million to $150 million.

Basis of Presentation of Consolidated and
    Segment Financial Information

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements, the following reclassifications have been
made in our prior period financial statements in order to
conform to the current year presentation:


decrease in our net current deferred tax assets
    of approximately $310 million, and a decrease in our net
    long-term deferred tax liabilities of approximately
    $356 million as of December 31, 2003. The resultant
    over accrual of our net deferred tax liability of approximately
    $46 million was recorded as a reduction of goodwill as this
    adjustment is associated with our previous acquisition activity.
    Our deferred tax balances and goodwill as of December 31,
    2003 have been adjusted to reflect this change.

•

Segments

—
    Early in the third quarter of 2004, we implemented a market
    realignment that consisted of moving our Ohio operations to the
    Midwest Group and our Kentucky operations to the Southern Group,
    both of which were previously in the Eastern Group. We believe
    that the realignment will provide benefits to each of the
    operating groups affected. Specifically, the Ohio Market Area
    faces many of the same issues as other industrial regions in the
    Midwest Group and the Kentucky Market Area’s rural
    characteristics make it similar to other markets in the Southern
    Group. By balancing the revenues between each of the Groups, we
    will enable the Eastern Group leadership team to focus on the
    challenges associated with the Northeast corridor. As a result
    of the realignment, we have reclassified the operating results
    of the Ohio and Kentucky Market Areas for all periods presented
    to provide segment financial information that appropriately
    reflects our approach to managing operations.

Additionally, certain other minor
reclassifications have been made to our prior period
consolidated financials statements in order to conform to the
current year presentation. The financial information included
herein has been updated to reflect these changes.

Critical Accounting Estimates and
    Assumptions

In preparing our financial statements, we make
several estimates and assumptions that affect our assets,
liabilities, stockholders’ equity, revenues and expenses.
We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain
information that is used in the preparation of our financial
statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated
with a high degree of precision from available data or is simply
not capable of being readily calculated based on generally
accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are
particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise
significant judgment. The most difficult, subjective and complex
estimates and the assumptions that deal with the greatest amount
of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills,
environmental remediation liabilities and asset impairments, as
described below.

Landfills

—
Effective January 1, 2003, our method of accounting for
landfill closure and post-closure, as well as landfill final
capping, changed as a result of our adoption of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations

. Through
December 31, 2002, the waste industry generally recognized
expenses associated with (i) amortization of capitalized
and future landfill asset costs and (ii) future closure and
post-closure obligations on a units-of-consumption basis as
airspace was consumed over the life of the related landfill.
This practice, referred to as life-cycle accounting within the
waste industry, continues to be followed, with the exception of
capitalized and future landfill final capping costs. As a result
of the adoption of SFAS No. 143, future final capping
costs are identified by specific capping event and amortized
over the specific estimated capacity related to that event
rather than over the life of the entire landfill, as was the
practice prior to our adoption of SFAS No. 143.

The cost estimates for final capping, closure and
post-closure activities at landfills for which we have
responsibility are estimated based on our interpretations of
current requirements and proposed or anticipated regulatory
changes. We also estimate additional costs, pursuant to the
requirements of SFAS No. 143, based on the amount a
third party would charge us to perform such activities even when
we expect to perform these activities internally. We estimate
the airspace to be consumed related to each final capping event
and the timing of each final capping event and closure and
post-closure activities. Because landfill final capping, closure
and post-closure obligations are measured at estimated fair
value using present value techniques, changes in the estimated
timing of future landfill final capping and closure and
post-closure activities would have an effect on these
liabilities, related assets and results of operations.

Landfill Costs — We estimate the total
cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its final
capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner
material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill
leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems,
environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and


landfill gas, directly related engineering,
capitalized interest, and on-site road construction and other
capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development
includes all land purchases for landfill footprint and required
landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs
are dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining
amortizable basis related to costs to develop a site to its
final capacity includes amounts previously expended and
capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and
projections of future purchase and development costs.

Final Capping Costs — We estimate the
cost for each final capping event based on the area to be
finally capped and the capping materials and activities
required. The estimates also consider when these costs would
actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our
engineering personnel allocate final landfill capping costs to
specific capping events. They then quantify the landfill
capacity associated with each final capping event and the final
capping costs for each event are amortized over the related
capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at
the landfill. We review these costs annually or more often, as
significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing
or cost of construction, for final capping events where the
associated capacity is fully consumed immediately impact the
required liability and the corresponding asset. However, as the
change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the
adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through
expense.

Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We
base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our
interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for
closure and post-closure maintenance and monitoring. The
estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also
consider when the costs would actually be paid and factor in
inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal
and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of
these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less
certain.

Available Airspace — Our engineers are
responsible for determining available airspace at our landfills.
This is done by using surveys and other methods to calculate,
based on permit mandated height restrictions and other factors,
how much airspace is left to fill and how much waste can be
disposed of at a landfill before it has reached its final
capacity.

Expansion Airspace — We also include
currently unpermitted airspace in our estimate of available
airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace
associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect
the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within
one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within
five years. Second, we must believe the success of obtaining the
expansion permit is likely, using the following criteria:

These criteria are initially evaluated by our
field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to
identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. However,
our policy provides that, based on the facts and circumstances
of a specific landfill, if these criteria are not met, inclusion
of unpermitted airspace may still be allowed. In these
circumstances, inclusion must be approved through a
landfill-specific review process that includes approval of the
Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of
the Board of


Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the
73 landfill sites with expansions at December 31,
2004, 19 landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to
approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Approximately
three-fourths of these landfills required approval by the Chief
Financial Officer because legal, community or other issues could
impede the expansion process, while the remaining were primarily
because the permit application processes would not meet the one
and five year requirements, which in many cases were due to
state-specific permitting procedures. When we include the
expansion airspace in our calculations of available airspace, we
also include the projected costs for development, as well as the
projected asset retirement cost related to final capping, and
closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization
basis of the landfill.

After determining the costs at our landfills, we
determine the per ton rates that will be expensed. We look at
factors such as the waste stream, geography and rate of
compaction, among others, to determine the number of tons
necessary to fill the available and probable expansion airspace
relating to these costs and activities. We then divide costs by
the corresponding number of tons, giving us the rate per ton to
expense for each activity as waste is received and deposited at
the landfill. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each
landfill for assets associated with each final capping event,
for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and
for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the
future. These rates per ton are updated annually or more often,
as significant facts change.

It is possible that actual results could
ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our
estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or
related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than
actual results, or our belief that we will receive an expansion
permit changes adversely in a significant manner, the costs of
the landfill, including the costs incurred in the pursuit of the
expansion, may be subject to impairment testing, as described
below. Lower profitability may be experienced due to higher
amortization rates, higher closure and post-closure rates, and
higher expenses or asset impairments related to the removal of
previously included expansion airspace. Additionally, if it is
determined that the likelihood of receiving an expansion permit
has become remote, the capitalized costs related to the
expansion effort are expensed immediately.

Environmental Remediation
Liabilities

— Under current
laws and regulations, we may have liability for environmental
damage caused by our operations, or for damage caused by
conditions that existed before we acquired a site. Remedial
costs are all costs relating to the remedy of any identified
situation that occurs by natural causes or human error not
expected in the normal course of business. These costs include
potentially responsible party (“PRP”) investigation,
settlement, certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs
directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such
as materials and incremental internal costs directly related to
the remedy. We estimate costs required to remediate sites where
liability is probable based on site-specific facts and
circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that
require remediation, considering whether we were an owner,
operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and
type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were
connected with the site. Next, we review the same information
with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the
cost for the likely remedy are then either developed using our
internal resources or by third party environmental engineers or
other service providers. Internally developed estimates are
based on:

Asset
Impairments

— Our long-lived
assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried
on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated
depreciation or amortization. However, accounting standards
require us to write down assets or groups of assets if they
become impaired. If significant events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset or
asset group may not be recoverable, we perform a test of
recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or
asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. Cash
flow projections are sometimes based on a group of assets,
rather than a


single asset. If cash flows cannot be separately
and independently identified for a single asset, we will
determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of
assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If
the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected
future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the
fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value.
Fair value is determined by either an actual third-party
valuation or an internally developed discounted projected cash
flow analysis of the asset or asset group. If the fair value of
an asset or asset group is determined to be less than the
carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in
the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the
impairment indicator occurs.

Typical indicators that an asset may be impaired
include:

If any of these or other indicators occur, we
review the asset to determine whether there has been an
impairment. Several of these indicators are beyond our control,
and we cannot predict with any certainty whether or not they
will occur. Additionally, estimating future cash flows requires
significant judgment and our projections may vary from cash
flows eventually realized. There are additional considerations
for impairments of landfills and goodwill, as described below.

Landfills

—
Certain of the indicators listed above require significant
judgment and understanding of the waste industry when applied to
landfill development or expansion projects. For example, a
regulator may initially deny a landfill expansion permit
application though the expansion permit is ultimately granted.
In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one
landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill
airspace. Therefore, certain events could occur in the ordinary
course of business and not necessarily be considered indicators
of impairment due to the unique nature of the waste industry.

Goodwill

—
At least annually, we assess whether goodwill is impaired. Upon
determining the existence of goodwill impairment, we measure
that impairment based on the amount by which the book value of
goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. The implied fair value
of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of a
reporting unit’s identifiable assets and liabilities from
the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole, as if that
reporting unit had just been acquired and the purchase price
were being initially allocated. Additional impairment
assessments may be performed on an interim basis if we encounter
events or changes in circumstances, such as those listed above,
that would indicate that, more likely than not, the book value
of goodwill has been impaired.


Results of Operations

The following table presents, for the periods
indicated, the period-to-period change in dollars (in millions)
and percentages for the respective statement of operations line
items:

*

Percentage change is not meaningful. Refer to the
    explanations of these items included herein for a discussion of
    the relationship between current year and prior year activity.


The following table presents, for the periods
indicated, the percentage relationship that the respective
statement of operations line items has to operating revenues:

Operating Revenues

Our operating revenues in 2004 were
$12.5 billion, compared to $11.6 billion in 2003 and
$11.2 billion in 2002. As shown below, North American Solid
Waste, or “NASW,” is our principal operation, and is
comprised of seven operating Groups within North America, along
with our Other NASW services. The operations shown as
“Non-NASW Divested Operations” in the table below
consisted of our non-solid waste services, which were divested
as of March 31, 2002.


Our NASW operating revenues generally come from
fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer and
recycling services. Some of the fees we charge to our customers
for collection services are billed in advance; a liability for
future service is recorded when we bill the customer and
operating revenues are recognized as services are actually
provided. Revenues from our disposal operations consist of
tipping fees charged to third parties generally based on the
volume and type of waste being disposed of at our disposal
facilities and are normally billed monthly or semi-monthly. Fees
charged at transfer stations are generally based on the volume
of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading,
transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site
and are normally billed monthly. Recycling revenue, which is
generated by our Recycling Group as well as our five geographic
operating Groups, generally consists of the sale of recyclable
commodities to third parties and tipping fees. Intercompany
revenues between our operations have been eliminated in the
consolidated financial statements.

The mix of NASW operating revenues from our
different services is reflected in the table below (in millions).

The following table provides details associated
with the period-to-period change in NASW revenues (dollars in
millions) along with an explanation of the significant
components of the current period changes:

Base
Business

— Base business
yield improvements contributed to increased revenues in our
collection, transfer and waste-to-energy operations in 2004 as
compared with 2003. In our collection business, the most
substantial yield improvements during 2004 were in our
industrial and residential operations, where nearly all of our
operating groups experienced base business pricing improvements.
Although the change in yield provided by our collection
operations throughout 2004 has been positive, it was affected by
increased price competition, particularly in the Midwest, and
the unfavorable impact of lower priced recycling and yard waste
service programs in the South. The base business yield
improvements in our transfer business throughout 2004


have been almost exclusively attributable to the
Eastern portion of the United States. However, increased pricing
in our transfer business in the East has negatively affected our
volume-related revenue in that region. The base business yield
increases during 2004 have been partially offset by average
yield declines in our landfill operations. This decline is
primarily the net result of the continued impact of lower
pricing for special waste, particularly in the South and
Midwest, which has been partially offset by increased pricing
for municipal solid waste disposal.

In 2003, the increase in base business yield as
compared to 2002 was attributable to our collection, transfer
and waste-to-energy businesses, with a significant increase in
our residential collection operations. Certain of these price
increases related to additional costs and taxes were passed on
to our customers. However, the increase was partially offset by
our landfill business, where we experienced decreases in
price-related revenue principally due to our special waste
landfill operations, mainly because of an increase in lower
priced event work in the Southern and Western portions of the
United States.

Commodity

—
Our revenues in both 2004 and 2003 were positively affected by
price increases in all of the recycling commodities that we
process. Average prices for old corrugated cardboard were up
approximately 33% during the year, from $64 per ton in 2003
to $85 per ton in 2004. Average prices for old newsprint
have also improved year-over-year by approximately 25%, from
$69 per ton in 2003 to $86 per ton in 2004. However, a
significant portion of increases from commodity prices is
rebated to our suppliers, thereby increasing our cost of goods
sold resulting in a relatively small impact to our income from
operations.

Fuel surcharges and
fees

— We experienced
revenue improvements during 2004 due to our continued effort to
pass on higher fuel costs to our customers through fuel
surcharges. Fuel surcharges increased revenues year-over-year by
approximately $53 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 and approximately $33 million for
the year ended December 31, 2003. These increases were more
than offset by increased operating costs due to higher diesel
fuel prices as discussed in

Operating Expenses —
Fuel

.

Volume

—
During 2004, we experienced significant volume-related revenue
increases in our collection and landfill businesses, driven
principally by our Southern and Western Groups. A substantial
portion of volume-related revenue growth is due to the volume
increases each of our operating groups has experienced in its
industrial collection operations. In the Southern and Western
portions of the United States, our residential collection and
transfer volumes have also made substantial contributions to
revenue growth throughout the year. Additionally, hurricane
clean-up efforts increased the Southern Group’s 2004
volume-related revenues by approximately $115 million.
Landfill volume increases have also provided significant revenue
improvements during 2004. The volume increases in our landfill
business have been the most significant in the South and West,
where increases in both construction and demolition waste and
special waste have been substantial. Excluding the impact of
hurricanes, we believe that a relatively strong economic
environment has driven our volume-related revenue improvements.

Our revenue due to volumes decreased in 2003 as
compared to 2002, primarily in our collection and recycling
businesses. We believe the 2003 declines in collection were the
result of general economic conditions and increased competition,
particularly in the Eastern and Midwestern portions of the
United States. Our loss of a contract with the City of Chicago
during February 2003 was the primary reason for volume declines
in transfer and recycling, accounting for lost revenues of
approximately $60 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. Partially offsetting these decreases
were increases in special waste volumes at our landfills,
primarily in the Southern and Western portions of the United
States.

Acquisitions

—
In 2004, the increase in revenues due to acquisitions was
largely related to the full year impact of our acquisition of
collection assets from Allied Waste Industries, Inc. in the
third and fourth quarters of 2003. Other acquisitions of
recycling, transfer and waste-to-energy businesses consummated
subsequent to the third quarter of 2003 also provided increases
in revenues during 2004. In 2003, we also acquired the Peltz
Group, the largest privately-held recycler in the United States.


Operating Expenses (Exclusive of
    Depreciation and Amortization Shown Below)

Our operating expenses include (i) labor and
related benefits, which include salaries and wages, related
payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs
associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal
costs, which include tipping fees paid to third party disposal
facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and
repairs relating to both equipment and facilities;
(iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of
independent haulers who transport our waste to disposal
facilities; (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily
the rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling
commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of
fuel and oils to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating
equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes,
which include landfill taxes, host community fees and royalties;
and (viii) other operating costs, which include equipment
and facility rent, property taxes, insurance and claims costs
and landfill operating costs.

The following table summarizes the major
components of our operating expenses, including the impact of
foreign currency translation, for the year ended
December 31 for the respective periods (in millions):

When comparing the year ended December 31,
2002 to other periods, our 2002 restructuring, as discussed
below within

Restructuring

, resulted in the
re-characterization of certain labor and facility-related costs.
Through March 31, 2002, these costs were included within
other selling, general and administrative costs. After the
adoption of the new organizational structure these costs were
deemed more appropriate to be classified as operating costs and
as such have been recorded as operating expenses since
April 1, 2002, when the organizational changes became
effective. The components of operating expenses impacted are
labor and related benefits as well as other operating expenses.

Labor and related
benefits

— After excluding
the cost increases due to the recharacterization of selling,
general and administrative costs as discussed above, these costs
have increased year-over year as a result of (i) higher
salaries and hourly wages when compared with the prior year due
to annual merit increases; (ii) increased overtime costs
due in part to increased volumes; and (iii) salary and
hourly wage costs related to acquisitions. Additionally, the
increases in 2004 and to a lesser extent in 2003 have been
partially offset by savings realized as a result of our 2003
workforce reductions.

Transfer and disposal
costs

— The increases are
due principally to volume increases from both general operating
activities and acquisitions.

Subcontractor
costs

— These cost increases
during 2004 as compared with the prior year are primarily due to
higher volumes we have experienced throughout the year,
including increased subcontractor costs of approximately
$78 million in 2004 attributable to hurricane clean-up
services provided by our Southern Group. Also contributing to
the increases are (i) the impact of acquisitions;
(ii) increased third-party transportation costs in our
Western Group due to the service requirements of certain event
work; (iii) higher fuel surcharges paid to third party
subcontractors; and (iv) additional transportation costs in
our Eastern Group due to capacity constraints at some of our
landfills.


In 2003, we also experienced, to a lesser extent,
the effects of the redirection of waste as a result of landfill
constraints in the Eastern Group. Additionally, we had increased
subcontractor costs in 2003 as compared to 2002 due to
(i) increases in subcontracted transportation costs from an
increase in special waste activity within our landfill line of
business; (ii) general volume increases; and
(iii) increased use of subcontractors for our national
accounts in areas where we do not provide services.

Cost of goods
sold

— Our Recycling Group
provides our suppliers with rebates that are driven by market
prices of recyclable commodities, which means that the increase
in cost of goods sold correlates directly to the increase in the
market prices of these commodities and our revenue yield.

Fuel

— We
experienced an average increase of $0.30 per gallon for
2004 as compared with 2003 and in 2003 we experienced an average
increase of $0.19 per gallon over 2002. However, a
significant portion of this cost increase is offset by our fuel
surcharges to customers, which are reflected as fuel price
increases within our

Operating Revenues

section above.

Other operating
expenses

— The primary
reason for the decrease during 2004 as compared with 2003 is the
impact of the December 31, 2003 consolidation of two
special purpose type variable interest entities from which we
lease three waste-to-energy facilities. Prior to the
consolidation of these entities, we accounted for these
arrangements as operating leases. The consolidation of these
entities has, therefore, resulted in a decline in rental expense
in 2004, which was mostly offset by increases in depreciation,
interest expense and minority interest expense. Additionally, in
2004, we experienced increased landfill and environmental costs,
but had partially offsetting gains from the sale of certain
assets.

After excluding the cost increases due to the
recharacterization of selling, general and administrative costs
as discussed above, the increase in 2003 other operating
expenses over 2002 is partially attributable to
(i) increased landfill and environmental costs of
approximately $24 million primarily due to increases in
costs associated with accretion expense on landfill asset
retirement obligations related to our adoption of
SFAS No. 143 and (ii) increased risk management
expenses of approximately $20 million largely as a result
of increases in the average cost per claim and higher financial
assurance costs.

Selling, General and
    Administrative

Our selling, general and administrative expenses
consist of (i) labor costs, which include salaries, related
insurance and benefits, contract labor, and payroll taxes;
(ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting,
legal, audit, and tax services; (iii) provision for bad
debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer
accounts and collection fees; and (iv) other general and
administrative expenses, which include facility-related
expenses, voice and data telecommunications, advertising, travel
and entertainment, rentals, postage, and printing.

The following table summarizes the major
components of our selling, general and administrative costs for
the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in
millions):

Labor and related
benefits

— We realized an
increase in labor and related benefits for the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared with the prior year primarily
attributable to (i) increased commissions paid to our sales
personnel; (ii) higher salaries and hourly wages that were
partially offset by the 2003 workforce reduction; and
(iii) higher bonus expense due to the overall improvement
in our performance for 2004. A decline in our use of contract
labor has partially offset these increases.


During the year ended December 31, 2003, the
overall reduction in labor and related benefits was a result of
reductions in salary and other labor-related costs, which were
primarily derived from our March 2002 reorganization and
February and June 2003 restructurings.

Professional
fees

— We experienced
increases in professional fees for the year ended
December 31, 2004 as compared with the year ended
December 31, 2003 as a result of higher litigation and
defense costs and consulting fees for both general business
reasons and our compliance with Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We did not see a significant
fluctuation in professional fees between the year ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002.

Other selling, general and administrative
costs

— During 2003, we
obtained favorable settlements for legal disputes, which are
driving the apparent increase in costs in 2004 as compared with
2003. After excluding this impact, we have maintained our cost
reduction efforts that were put in place in 2003. In 2003,
management focused on reducing spending related to travel and
entertainment and other administrative costs.

This focus on cost reduction is a primary factor
for the lower other selling, general and administrative costs
for the year ended December 31, 2003 as compared with 2002.
Additionally, in 2002 we experienced increases in our legal
reserves that resulted in an unfavorable effect on results as
compared with 2003.

Also, when comparing the year ended
December 31, 2002 to other periods, our 2002 restructuring,
as discussed below within

Restructuring,

resulted in the
re-characterization of certain labor and facility-related costs.
Through March 31, 2002, these costs were included within
other selling, general and administrative costs. After the
adoption of the new organizational structure, these costs were
deemed more appropriate to be classified as operating costs and
as such have been recorded as operating expenses since
April 1, 2002, which is when the organizational changes
became effective.

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and amortization includes
(i) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life,
either using a 150% declining balance approach or a
straight-line basis over the definitive terms of the related
agreements, which are from two to ten years depending on the
type of asset; (ii) depreciation of property and equipment
on a straight-line basis from three to 50 years;
(iii) amortization of landfill costs, including those
incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill
development, construction, closure and post-closure, on a
units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed
over the estimated remaining capacity of a site; and
(iv) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs
arising from final capping obligations on a units-of-consumption
method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity
associated with each final capping event.

The increase in depreciation and amortization in
2004 as compared to 2003 is primarily related to (i) an
increase in our landfill amortization rate, net of the
adjustment related to our landfill retirement costs, of
$0.19 per ton, and, to a lesser extent, an increase in
landfill airspace amortization due to higher volumes;
(ii) increased information technology depreciation expense
recognized as a result of placing additional enterprise-wide
software systems into service during the latter half of 2003;
and (iii) increased depreciation expense for our
Wheelabrator Group as a result of consolidating two variable
interest entities. The increase in our landfill airspace and
landfill asset retirement cost amortization in 2004 was
partially offset by the impact of approximately $18 million
of incremental changes related to our final capping, closure and
post closure obligations due to (i) the addition of new
landfill expansions and the removal of certain expansions from
the landfill cost base; (ii) permit modifications;
(iii) the settlement of final capping events; and
(iv) changes in certain estimates that are derived from an
annual review which occurs in the fourth quarter of each year.
Depreciation and amortization remained relatively flat from 2002
to 2003.

Restructuring

In 2002, we reorganized our operations to form
market areas within our geographic Groups to better align
collection, transport, recycling and disposal resources. As part
of the restructuring, we reduced the number of field layers of
management and eliminated approximately 1,900 field-level
administrative and operational


positions. In 2002, we recorded $38 million
in pre-tax charges for costs associated with the implementation
of the new structure. These charges included $36 million
for employee severance and benefit costs and $2 million
related to abandoned operating lease agreements. All payments
related to this restructuring have been made.

In February 2003, we reduced the number of market
areas that make up our geographic operating Groups and reduced
certain overhead positions to streamline our organization. As a
result, we incurred approximately $20 million in one-time
employee severance and benefit costs. The operational
efficiencies provided by the February 2003 organizational
changes enabled us to further reduce our workforce in June 2003.
We recorded $24 million of pre-tax charges for employee
severance and benefit costs associated with this workforce
reduction during 2003.

During 2004, we recorded a $1 million credit
to reduce our accrual for severance costs associated with these
workforce reductions. As of December 31, 2004,
substantially all obligations associated with the February
restructuring and workforce reduction have been paid. The first
quarter of 2005 is the final period we are obligated to make any
severance payments to employees associated with the February
2003 reorganization and workforce reduction. Approximately
$1 million remains accrued as of December 31, 2004 for
employee severance and benefit costs incurred as a result of the
June 2003 workforce reduction, which will be paid to certain
employees through the third quarter of 2005.

Asset Impairments and Unusual
    Items

In 2004, the net gain of $13 million for
asset impairments and unusual items related to
(i) $17 million in impairment losses primarily due to
the impairment of certain landfill assets and software
development costs; (ii) $15 million in gains on
divestitures that primarily related to certain Port-O-Let
operations; and (iii) $15 million of gains in 2004
related to adjustments we made to our estimated obligations
associated with our Non-NASW Divested Operations and our receipt
of cash from a third-party for a previously settled remedial
obligation.

During 2003, we recorded a net gain of
$8 million to asset impairments and unusual items primarily
as a result of gains of $13 million recognized on
divestitures of certain operations that were offset, in part, by
$5 million for asset impairment and other miscellaneous
charges.

In 2002, the net gain of $34 million for
asset impairments and unusual items was due primarily to
(i) our receipt of approximately $11 million related
to a previously impaired, non-revenue producing asset,
(ii) net gains of approximately $8 million on
divestitures during the year and (iii) reductions to legal
reserves of approximately $8 million and loss contract
reserves of approximately $7 million that we deemed were in
excess of current requirements and that were initially
recognized as a charge to asset impairments and unusual items.

Income From Operations by Reportable
    Segment

We manage and evaluate our operations primarily
through our Eastern, Midwest, Southern, Western, Canadian,
Wheelabrator and Recycling Groups. These Groups, when combined
with certain other operations, comprise our NASW operations. The
operations not managed through our seven operating Groups are
presented herein as “Other NASW.”

As discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated
financial statements, charges associated with our restructuring
and workforce reductions impacted the operating results of our
reportable segments in 2003 and 2002. The following table
summarizes income from operations by reportable segment for the
year ended December 31


for each respective period and provides
explanations of other factors contributing to the significant
changes in our segments’ operating results (in millions):

Canadian

—
While general economic factors, such as foreign currency rates,
favorably affected operating results year-over-year, a favorable
legal settlement of $17 million in the fourth quarter of
2003 and an unfavorable legal settlement of $26 million in
2002 were the primary drivers of these changes.

Eastern

—
Operating income improvement from 2003 to 2004 was driven
primarily by (i) revenue growth due to increased average
yield across all major lines of business, partially offset by
volume declines in transfer, residential collection and landfill
operations throughout the year; (ii) higher operating
expenses incurred in 2003 due to the first quarter’s harsh
weather conditions; and (iii) acquisitions. These earnings
improvements were partially offset by increased costs for labor
and the transportation of waste, higher landfill amortization
rates and the impairment of a landfill. The most significant
factors affecting the decline from 2002 to 2003 were
(i) lower collection and landfill volumes;
(ii) increased disposal costs largely due to disposal
constraints in the northeastern portion of the United States;
(iii) general increases in landfill operating costs and
repair and maintenance costs; and (iv) harsh winter weather
experienced during the first quarter of 2003.

Midwest

—
Lower operating income in 2003 as compared with 2002 was
primarily due to (i) the harsh winter weather conditions
during the first quarter of 2003 (ii) soft economic
conditions leading to lower volume; and (iii) an increase
in competitive activity leading to price roll-backs and lost
business. These economic and competitive pressures continued to
impact the Midwest’s results during 2004.

Southern

—
Operating income in 2004 has been favorably affected by
(i) positive internal revenue growth, largely due to volume
increases in higher margin landfill operations;
(ii) acquisitions; (iii) increased revenue during the
second half of 2004 as a result of the hurricanes in the region
during the third quarter; (iv) favorable landfill capping
adjustments in the fourth quarter of 2004, largely offset by
higher landfill amortization rates utilized throughout 2004; and
(v) various operating and administrative cost reductions.
These improvements were partially offset by the write-off of a
terminated landfill development project during the fourth
quarter of 2004. Results for the Southern Group were relatively
consistent between 2002 and 2003.

Western

—
The 2004 increase is primarily attributable to revenue growth,
which is largely due to increased volumes in industrial and
residential collection and transfer operations and average yield
improvements in our commercial and residential collection
operations. These gains were partially offset by
(i) increased labor costs; (ii) higher fuel costs not
passed on to customers; and (iii) increases in third party
transportation and other subcontractor costs. Results for the
Western Group were relatively consistent between 2002 and 2003.

Wheelabrator

—
The increase in 2004 operating income was due in large part to
(i) positive internal revenue growth driven by improved
electricity pricing and average yield improvements on long-term
disposal contracts and (ii) the consolidation of two
special purpose variable interest entities on December 31,
2003, which has increased income from operations as a result of
decreased operating costs, partially offset by


increases in depreciation expense (the impact of
the consolidation of these entities on income before income
taxes is significantly reduced by increases in interest expense
and minority interest expense). Wheelabrator’s 2003
operating results were favorably affected by an $11 million
gain realized as a result of a legal settlement, which also
significantly affected their trended income from operations for
the years presented.

Recycling

—
The Recycling Group’s 2004 operating revenues have been
favorably affected by significantly higher market prices for
recycling commodities. Improvements in the market prices for
these commodities provide marginal increases to our income from
operations because a substantial portion of changes in market
prices are generally passed on as rebates to our suppliers.
These favorable market conditions were the primary drivers of
the current year’s increase in earnings.

Other Components of Income Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles

The following summarizes the other major
components of our income before cumulative effect of changes in
accounting principles for the year ended December 31 for
each respective period (in millions):

*

Percentage change not meaningful. Refer to the
    explanations of these items below for a discussion of the
    relationship between current year and prior year activity.

Interest Expense, net

In 2004, net interest expense decreased
approximately $42 million when compared with 2003, which is
due to a $58 million increase in interest income from
$12 million in 2003 to $70 million in 2004. This
increase is due primarily to interest income of $46 million
realized on tax refunds received from the IRS for the settlement
of several federal audits. Partially offsetting the benefit of
the current year increase in interest income is a
$16 million increase in interest expense, which is
primarily attributable to the consolidation of two special
purpose variable interest entities on December 31, 2003 as
a result of our implementation of FIN 46.

The decline in net interest expense in 2003 when
compared with 2002 can be largely attributed to our increased
utilization of tax-exempt financing, which contributed to a
decline in our weighted average interest rate for the period.

For all periods, we have experienced a positive
impact to interest expense as a result of our interest rate
derivative contracts, which we use to manage our exposure to
changes in market interest rates. The combined benefit of active
and terminated interest rate swap agreements resulted in
interest expense reductions of approximately $90 million
for 2004, approximately $96 million for 2003 and
approximately $86 million for 2002. While we expect the
benefits of our interest rate derivative contracts to continue
in 2005, the benefit derived from our interest rate contracts
will be impacted by changes in short-term rates on our active
agreements and will decline as the debt associated with
terminated contracts matures.

Of the $90 million in reductions to interest
expense realized in 2004 for terminated and active interest rate
swap agreements, $48 million related to the amortization of
terminated swaps. Our terminated interest rate swaps are
expected to reduce interest expense by $42 million in 2005,
$41 million in 2006 and $37 million in 2007.

Equity in Losses (Earnings) of
    Unconsolidated Entities

In the first and second quarters of 2004, we
acquired an equity interest in two coal-based synthetic fuel
production facilities. We account for our investments in these
entities using the equity method of accounting


and their related losses are the reason for the
2004 versus 2003 change in equity in losses (earnings) of
unconsolidated entities. These equity losses are more than
offset by the tax benefit realized as a result of these
investments as discussed below within

Provision for Income
Taxes.

If, for any reason, the tax credits generated by the
facilities were no longer allowable under Section 29 of the
Internal Revenue Code, we would no longer incur these equity
losses. Additional information related to these investments is
included in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

Minority Interest

The increase in 2004 minority interest expense
over prior years was primarily attributable to the consolidation
of two special purpose type variable interest entities on
December 31, 2003 as a result of our implementation of
FIN 46. This increase was more than offset by an increase
in our income from operations as a result of consolidating the
entities. Additional information related to these investments is
included in Note 19 to the consolidated financial
statements.

Other, net

Our other income and expense in 2003 and 2004 is
primarily attributable to the impact of foreign currency
translation.

We experienced a significant impact to other
income in 2002 due primarily to the sale of an equity
investment. In 2002, a company in which we held an approximately
17% interest was acquired by another entity. We also held a note
from the acquired company that was paid off in connection with
the acquisition. The proceeds from the repayment of the note and
the sale of our equity investment resulted in a gain of
approximately $43 million in the fourth quarter of 2002.

Provision for Income Taxes

We recorded a provision for income taxes of
$247 million for 2004, $404 million for 2003 and
$422 million for 2002 resulting in an effective income tax
rate of approximately 21.0%, 36.0% and 34.0% for each of the
three years, respectively.

The difference in federal income taxes computed
at the federal statutory rate and reported income taxes for 2004
is primarily due to (i) the realization of non-conventional
fuel tax credits generated by our landfills and our investments
in the coal-based synthetic fuel production facilities discussed
above within equity in losses (earnings) of unconsolidated
entities; and (ii) the realization of a net benefit of
approximately $101 million for tax audit settlements that
occurred during the year; offset in part by (iii) state and
local income taxes. The decrease of approximately
$131 million in our tax provision attributable to our
equity investments in the coal-based synthetic fuel production
facilities more than offset the related equity losses and
interest expense for those entities discussed above.

The difference in federal income taxes computed
at the federal statutory rate and reported income taxes for 2003
and 2002 is primarily due to state and local income taxes,
offset in part by non-conventional fuel tax credits generated by
our landfills. Additionally, in 2003 we recognized a
$6 million tax benefit on the settlement of certain foreign
audits. In 2002, we recognized a tax benefit of approximately
$16 million due to a capital gain generated in 2002 that
enabled us to utilize a previously unbenefitted capital loss
that arose from a divestiture. A tax benefit of approximately
$31 million was also recognized in 2002 related to the
carry-back of losses by our Dutch subsidiary.

See Note 8 to our consolidated financial
statements for further discussion.

Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting
    Principles

On March 31, 2004, we recorded a credit of
approximately $8 million, net of taxes, or $0.01 per
diluted share, as a cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle as a result of the consolidation of previously
unrecorded trusts as required by FIN 46. See Note 2 to
the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.


In the first and fourth quarters of 2003, we
recorded net of tax charges of $46 million and
$43 million, respectively, to cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles for the initial adoption of the
accounting changes described below.

In the first quarter of 2002, we recorded a
credit of $2 million to cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle to write off the aggregate amount of
negative goodwill as a result of adopting
SFAS No. 141,

Accounting for Business
Combinations.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

General

As an organization that has consistently
generated cash flows in excess of its reinvestment needs, our
primary source of liquidity has been cash flows from operations.
However, we operate in a capital-intensive business and
continued access to various financing resources is vital to our
continued financial strength. In the past, we have been
successful in obtaining financing from a variety of sources on
terms we consider attractive. Based on several key factors we
believe are considered important by credit rating agencies and
financial markets in determining our access to attractive
financing alternatives, we expect to continue to maintain access
to capital sources in the future. These factors include:

We continually monitor our actual and forecasted
cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us
to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business
activities that may arise during the year as a result of
changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition
to our working capital needs for the general and administrative
costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for:
(i) the construction and expansion of our landfills;
(ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet;
(iii) refurbishments and improvements at waste-to-energy
and materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and
equipment needs of our operations; and (v) capping, closure
and post-closure activities at our landfills. Beginning in 2002,
we committed ourselves to providing our shareholders with a
return on their investment


through our share repurchase program, and in 2004
began a quarterly dividend program. Our Board of Directors has
approved a new capital allocation program that provides for up
to $1.2 billion in aggregate dividend payments and share
repurchases each year during 2005, 2006 and 2007. We also
continue to invest in acquisitions that we believe will be
accretive and provide continued growth in our core business.

On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004 (the “Act”) became law. A
provision of the Act temporarily reduces the tax rate on
repatriated income if the income is permanently reinvested in
the U.S. We are currently evaluating the potential impact
of this legislation, which includes an analysis of the funds
provided by our Canadian operations available for repatriation.
However, we do not expect this legislation to materially impact
our consolidated liquidity position.

Summary of Cash, Restricted Trust and
    Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations

The following is a summary of our cash,
restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of
December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 (in millions):

Cash and cash
equivalents

— Cash and cash
equivalents consist primarily of cash on deposit, certificates
of deposit, money market accounts, and investment grade
commercial paper purchased with original maturities of three
months or less.

Restricted trust and escrow
accounts

— Restricted trusts
and escrow accounts consist primarily of funds held in trust for
the construction of various facilities or repayment of debt
obligations, funds deposited in connection with landfill
closure, post-closure and remedial obligations and insurance
escrow deposits. These balances are primarily included within
long-term other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. See
Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for
additional discussion.

Debt

—
Revolving credit and letter of credit facilities — The
table below summarizes the credit capacity, maturity and
outstanding letters of credit under our revolving credit
facility and principal letter of credit facilities outstanding
at December 31, 2004 (in millions). We also had an
additional $88 million in


outstanding letters of credit at
December 31, 2004 that have been issued under various
arrangements, none of which provide for committed capacity.

We have used each of these facilities to support
letters of credit that we issue to support our insurance
programs, certain tax-exempt bond issuances, municipal and
governmental waste management contracts, closure and
post-closure obligations and disposal site or transfer station
operating permits. These facilities require us to pay fees to
the lenders and our obligation is generally to repay any draws
that may occur on the letters of credit. We expect that similar
facilities may continue to serve as a cost efficient source of
letter of credit capacity in the future, and we continue to
assess our financial assurance requirements to ensure that we
have adequate letter of credit and surety bond capacity in
advance of our business needs.

On October 15, 2004, we renegotiated our
three-year, $650 million and five-year, $1.75 billion
revolving credit facilities, replacing them with a single,
five-year, $2.4 billion syndicated revolving credit
facility.

Senior
notes

— During March 2004 we
issued $350 million of 5.0% senior notes due
March 15, 2014. The net proceeds of the offering were
approximately $346 million after deducting
underwriters’ discounts and expenses. We used these
proceeds to repay $150 million of 8.0% senior notes
due April 30, 2004 and $200 million of
6.5% senior notes due May 15, 2004. With cash on hand,
we repaid $295 million of 7.0% senior notes that
matured on October 1, 2004. We have $100 million of
7.0% senior notes and $3 million of 6.65% senior
notes both due May 15, 2005 that we currently expect to
redeem with available cash.

Tax-exempt
bonds

— As of
December 31, 2004, we had approximately $2,047 million
of outstanding tax-exempt bonds. We issued approximately
$345 million of tax-exempt bonds during 2004,
$35 million of which was issued to refinance higher rate
tax-exempt bonds. We actively issue tax-exempt bonds as a means
of accessing low-cost financing for capital expenditures. The
proceeds from these financing arrangements are deposited
directly into trust funds and may only be used for the specific
purpose for which the money was raised, which is generally the
construction of collection and disposal facilities and for the
equipment necessary to provide waste management services. As we
spend monies on the specific projects being financed, we are
able to requisition cash from the trust funds. As discussed in
the restricted trusts and escrow accounts section above, we have
approximately $333 million held in trust for future
spending as of December 31, 2004. During 2004, we received
$442 million from these funds for approved capital
expenditures.

As of December 31, 2004, approximately
$590 million of our tax-exempt bonds are remarketed weekly
by a remarketing agent to effectively maintain a variable yield.
If the remarketing agent is unable to remarket the bonds, then
the remarketing agent can put the bonds to us. These bonds are
supported by letters of credit that were issued primarily under
our $2.4 billion, five-year revolving credit facility, that
guarantee repayment of the bonds in the event the bonds are put
to us. During the second quarter of 2004, we fixed the interest
rates of approximately $379 million of tax-exempt bonds
that had previously been remarketed on a weekly basis.


Because our variable-rate tax-exempt bonds
require letter of credit support, fixing the interest rates of
these debt instruments resulted in a decrease in our financial
assurance needs.

Tax-exempt project bonds — As of
December 31, 2004, we had approximately $496 million
of outstanding tax-exempt project bonds. These debt instruments
are primarily used by our Wheelabrator Group to finance the
development of waste-to-energy facilities. The bonds generally
require periodic principal installment payments. As of
December 31 2004, approximately $46 million of these
bonds are remarketed either daily or weekly by a remarketing
agent to effectively maintain a variable yield. If the
remarketing agent is unable to remarket the bonds, then the
remarketing agent can put the bonds to us. Repayment of these
bonds has been guaranteed with letters of credit issued under
our five-year revolving credit facility. Approximately
$91 million of these bonds will be repaid with either
available cash or debt service funds within the next twelve
months.

Convertible subordinated notes — We had
approximately $35 million of convertible subordinated notes
that we repaid, with cash on hand, upon maturity on
January 24, 2005.

Interest rate swaps — We manage the
interest rate risk of our debt portfolio principally by using
interest rate derivatives to achieve a desired position of fixed
and floating rate debt. As of December 31, 2004, the
interest payments on approximately $2.6 billion of our
fixed rate debt have been swapped to variable rates, allowing us
to maintain approximately 63% of our debt at fixed interest
rates and approximately 37% at variable interest rates. Fair
value hedge accounting for interest rate swap contracts
increased the carrying value of debt instruments by
approximately $135 million as of December 31, 2004 and
approximately $168 million at December 31, 2003.

Summary of Cash Flow Activity

The following is a summary of our cash flows for
the year ended December 31 for each respective period (in
millions):

Net Cash Provided by Operating
Activities

— During both
2003 and 2002, cash generated from operations was positively
affected by cash we received of approximately $109 million
and $166 million, respectively, from counterparties for
terminating certain interest rate swap agreements prior to their
scheduled maturities. The positive cash receipts during 2002
were offset partially by cash payments of approximately
$66 million to counterparties for the settlement of hedging
agreements entered into to secure underlying interest rates
related to our 2002 debt issuances.

Cash generated from operations during 2003 was
negatively affected by a $223 million net cash outflow for
the settlement of our securities class action lawsuit in the
third quarter of 2003. Settlement related activity impacting our
operating cash flows during 2003 includes: (i) a final net
cash settlement payment, net of insurance proceeds of
$377 million plus accrued interest; (ii) a total tax
benefit of approximately $138 million and
(iii) related net settlement recoveries of approximately
$16 million.

After adjusting 2003 and 2002 for the unusual
items mentioned above, our 2004 cash flows from operations
increased $178 million over 2003 and $165 million over
2002. Our improved earnings and the favorable effects of our
investments in two synthetic fuel partnerships are the primary
contributors of this increase.

Net Cash Used in Investing
Activities

— The primary
contributor to the variation in cash used in investing
activities is acquisition spending, which was $130 million
in 2004, $337 million in 2003 and $162 million in
2002. In recent years, our business acquisition strategy has
been to focus on tuck-in acquisitions, which are


relatively small, accretive businesses that will
easily integrate with, and provide value to, our existing
operations. However, our 2003 acquisition activity was
uncharacteristically high because of a few relatively large
acquisitions that were made in addition to numerous smaller
tuck-in acquisitions, particularly in our recycling
line-of-business. Our current market development and capital
allocation strategies reflect our desire to continue to invest
in businesses that will enable us to effectively utilize our
existing assets and the development or acquisition of disposal
assets, which tend to provide higher returns on investment and
operating margins. We intend to continue to make accretive
tuck-in investments and expect acquisition spending in 2005 to
be approximately $250 million.

In addition to decreased acquisition spending,
net receipts from restricted trust fund and escrow accounts in
2004 have increased $73 million over 2003 and
$171 million over 2002. As discussed above, our restricted
trust and escrow accounts are related to our (i) tax-exempt
bonds; (ii) closure, post-closure and remedial
requirements; or (iii) debt service requirements. The
increase in cash received from these sources is due to increased
utilization of this type of financing, which is a direct result
of the favorable interest rates available.

Our capital expenditures have been maintained at
a manageable range of annual spending of approximately
$1.2 billion to $1.3 billion. We anticipate that our
capital expenditures during 2005 will be in the range of
$1.25 billion to $1.35 billion.

Additionally, we continue to receive cash
proceeds from divestitures and other sales of assets. In January
of 2005, we received proceeds of approximately $89 million
for the divestiture of one of our landfills due to a Divestiture
Order from the Canadian Competition Bureau. From time to time,
we may be required to divest of certain assets due to
governmental regulations.

Net Cash Used in Financing
Activities

— The primary
reason for the increase in net cash used in financing activities
is the payment of our quarterly dividends, which resulted in
cash dividends of $432 million in 2004 compared with cash
dividends of $6 million paid in each of 2003 and 2002. Our
Board of Directors approved our quarterly dividend program in
August 2003, and we have declared and paid a dividend of
$0.1875 per share of common stock in each quarter of 2004,
compared with the annual $0.01 per share dividend in 2003
and 2002. Additionally, the Board of Directors announced that it
expects dividends to be $0.20 per share per quarter
beginning in 2005. All future dividend declarations are at the
discretion of the Board of Directors, and depend on various
factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash
required for future prospects and other factors the Board may
deem relevant. On January 28, 2005, the Board declared our
first quarterly dividend under the program of $0.20 per
share, which will be paid on March 24, 2005 to stockholders
of record as of March 1, 2005.

Offsetting the increase in cash dividend payments
were decreases in share repurchases and net debt repayments and
an increase in proceeds from the exercise of stock options and
warrants. We paid approximately $496 million for share
repurchases in 2004 as compared to $550 million paid during
2003 and $982 million paid in 2002. Our 2004 share
repurchases include a cash payment of approximately
$24 million to settle repurchases made in December 2003.
Our 2004 stock repurchases and dividend payments were made under
a capital allocation program that authorized management to spend
up to $1 billion for this activity during the year. Since
the inception of the repurchase program in February 2002, we
have repurchased approximately 77 million shares of our
common stock at a net cost of approximately $2 billion. We
currently expect to continue repurchasing common stock under the
capital allocation program discussed above. Future share
repurchases under this program will be made at the discretion of
management, and will depend on similar factors to those
considered by the Board in making dividend declarations.

Net debt repayments were approximately
$386 million in 2004, $456 million in 2003 and
$697 million in 2002. The following summary shows our most
significant cash borrowings and debt repayments made during 2004:

•

proceeds of approximately $346 million from
    the March 2004 issuance of $350 million of 5.0% senior
    notes;


•

repayment of $150 million of
    8.0% senior notes that matured in April 2004,
    $200 million of 6.5% senior notes that matured in May
    2004 and $295 million of 7.0% senior notes that
    matured in October 2004; and

•

repayments of approximately $25 million of
    tax-exempt bonds and $42 million of tax-exempt project
    bonds.

Cash receipts from common stock option and
warrant exercises increased to $193 million in 2004 from
$52 million in 2003 and $27 million in 2002. Increased
cash receipts from common stock option and warrant exercises
were driven by the increase in our stock price during the year.

Summary of Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2004 and the anticipated
effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in
millions):

We have contingencies that are not considered
reasonably likely. As a result, the impact of these
contingencies have not been included in the above table. See
Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for
further discussion of these contingencies.


Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We are party to (i) lease agreements with
unconsolidated variable interest entities and
(ii) guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as
discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 10 to the
consolidated financial statements. These lease agreements are
established in the ordinary course of our business and are
designed to provide us with access to facilities at competitive,
market-driven prices. Our third-party guarantee arrangements are
generally established to support our financial assurance needs
and landfill operations. These arrangements have not materially
affected our financial position, results of operations or
liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2004 nor are
they expected to have a material impact on our future financial
position, results of operations or liquidity.

Seasonal Trends and Inflation

Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher
in the summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of
construction and demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and
residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend
to increase during the summer months. Our second and third
quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect
these seasonal trends. Additionally, certain destructive weather
conditions that tend to occur during the summer, such as the
hurricanes experienced during the third quarter of 2004,
actually increase our revenues in the areas affected, although,
for several reasons, including significant start-up costs, such
revenues tend to provide lower margins. Conversely, harsh winter
weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our
operations, which can significantly affect the operating results
of those periods. The operating results of our first quarter
also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses
because we rely on the slower winter months for scheduled
maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities.

We believe that inflation has not had, and in the
near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect
on our results of operations. However, management’s
estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue
to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and
environmental remediation liabilities.

New Accounting Pronouncements

Information regarding our assessment of new
accounting pronouncements can be found in Note 23 to the
consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure
    About Market Risk.

In the normal course of business, we are exposed
to market risks, including changes in interest rates, Canadian
currency rates and certain commodity prices. From time to time,
we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. Our
derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that
provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no
multipliers or leverage. As of December 31, 2004, all of
our derivative transactions were related to actual or
anticipated economic exposures although certain transactions did
not qualify for hedge accounting. We are exposed to credit risk
in the event of non-performance by our derivative
counterparties. However, we monitor our derivative positions by
regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of
the counterparties, all of whom we either consider
credit-worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support
their performance.

We have performed sensitivity analyses to
determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of
our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions.
This analysis is inherently limited because it represents a
singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market
movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. The
effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly
affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not
covered by sensitivity analysis. Fair value sensitivity is not
necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings
effect from the assumed market rate movements.

Interest Rate
Exposure.

Our exposure to market risk
for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt
obligations, which are primarily denominated in
U.S. dollars. In addition, we use interest rate swaps to
manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations,
which directly impacts variability in interest costs.


An instantaneous, one percentage point increase
in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield
curves would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt
and interest rate swap positions by approximately
$490 million at December 31, 2004 and
$440 million at December 31, 2003. This analysis does
not reflect the effect that increasing interest rates would have
on other items, such as new borrowings, nor the unfavorable
impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for
interest.

We are also exposed to interest rate market risk
because we have approximately $647 million of assets held
in trust funds and escrow accounts included primarily as a
component of other long-term assets in our consolidated balance
sheet at December 31, 2004. These assets are generally
restricted for future capital expenditures and closure,
post-closure and remedial activities at our disposal facilities
and are therefore invested in high quality, liquid instruments
including money market accounts and U.S. government agency
debt securities. Because of the short-terms of these
investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair
value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant.

Currency Rate
Exposure.

From time to time, we have
used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency
translation on cash flows on intercompany Canadian-currency
denominated debt. There would have been no material impact to
our fair value position if there were an instantaneous 10%
decrease in foreign exchange rates at December 31, 2003. At
December 31, 2004 we have no foreign currency derivatives
outstanding.

Commodities Price
Exposure.

We market recycled products
such as waste paper, aluminum and glass from our material
recovery facilities. We enter into financial fiber swaps and
options to mitigate the variability in cash flows from a portion
of these sales. Under the swap agreements, we pay a floating
index price and receive a fixed price for a fixed period of
time. With regard to our option agreements, we have purchased
price protection on certain wastepaper sales via synthetic
floors (put options) and price protection on certain wastepaper
purchases via synthetic ceilings (call options). Additionally,
we have entered into collars (combination of a put and call
option) with financial institutions in which we receive the
market price for our wastepaper and aluminum sales within a
specified floor and ceiling. We record changes in the fair value
of commodity derivatives not designated as hedges to earnings,
as required. All derivative transactions are subject to our risk
management policy, which governs the type of instruments that
may be used. An instantaneous 10% increase in recyclable
material prices would decrease the fair value of our commodity
derivatives by approximately $10 million at
December 31, 2003 and by approximately $20 million at
December 31, 2004. This analysis excludes the underlying
physical commodity positions that are being hedged.

See Notes 3 and 7 to the consolidated
financial statements for further discussion of the use of and
accounting for derivative instruments.


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data.

INDEX TO

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL
CONTROL

OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management of the Company, including the Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
controls over financial reporting, as defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended. Our internal controls were designed to
provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of our
financial reporting and the preparation and presentation of the
consolidated financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States, as well as to safeguard assets from unauthorized
use or disposition.

We conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of our internal controls over financial reporting based on the
framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. This evaluation included review of the
documentation of controls, evaluation of the design
effectiveness of controls, testing of the operating
effectiveness of controls and a conclusion on this evaluation.
Through this evaluation, we did not identify any material
weaknesses in our internal controls. There are inherent
limitations in the effectiveness of any system of internal
controls over financial reporting; however, based on our
evaluation, we have concluded that our internal controls over
financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2004.

Ernst & Young LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, has issued an attestation
report on management’s assessment of internal control over
financial reporting, which is included herein.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Waste
Management, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Waste Management, Inc. (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and
the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2004. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Waste
Management, Inc. at December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2004, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements, during 2003 and 2004 the Company adopted
the respective portions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
Interpretation No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities” and, effective January 1, 2003, the
Company (i) changed its method of accounting for major
repairs and maintenance costs and annual outage costs,
(ii) changed its method of accounting for loss contracts
and (iii) adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (“SFAS”) No. 143, “Accounting for
Asset Retirement Obligations” (“SFAS 143”).

We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in
Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated February 16, 2005 expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Houston, Texas

February 16, 2005


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM ON

INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Waste
Management, Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment,
included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Waste
Management, Inc. maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on
criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). The Company’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s
assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the
company’s internal control over financial reporting based
on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that
Waste Management, Inc. maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly
stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria.
Also, in our opinion, Waste Management, Inc. maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on the COSO
criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Waste
Management, Inc. as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the
related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2004 and our report
dated February 16, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion
thereon.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Houston, Texas

February 16, 2005


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share and par value
amounts)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS

(In millions, except per share
amounts)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

(In millions)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

(In millions, except shares in
thousands)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and

1.

Business

The financial statements presented in this report
represent the consolidation of Waste Management, Inc., a
Delaware corporation, our majority-owned subsidiaries and
certain variable interest entities for which we have determined
that we are the primary beneficiary (See Note 19). Waste
Management, Inc. is a holding company that conducts all of its
operations through its subsidiaries. When the terms “the
Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”
are used in this document, those terms refer to Waste
Management, Inc. and all of its consolidated subsidiaries. When
we use the term “WMI,” we are referring only to the
parent holding company.

We are the leading provider of integrated waste
services in North America. We provide collection, transfer,
recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. We are
also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy
facilities in the United States. Our customers include
commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers,
other waste management companies, electric utilities and
governmental entities.

2.

Accounting Changes and
    Reclassifications

Accounting Changes

FIN 46 — Consolidation of
    Variable Interest Entities

In January 2003, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Interpretation
No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
(“FIN 46”), which requires variable interest
entities to be consolidated by their primary beneficiaries. A
primary beneficiary is the party that absorbs a majority of the
entity’s expected losses or receives a majority of the
entity’s expected residual returns, or both, as a result of
ownership, contractual or other financial interests in the
entity.

As it applies to us, the effective dates for
FIN 46 were as follows:

The financial statement impact of our
implementation of FIN 46 is summarized below.

Special purpose variable interest
entities

— On
December 31, 2003, we began consolidating two limited
liability companies from which we lease three waste-to-energy
facilities. Prior to the consolidation of the entities, we
accounted for the underlying leases as operating leases and
accounted for our investment in the LLCs under the equity method
of accounting. Upon consolidating these entities, we recorded a
charge to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of
approximately $43 million, net of tax benefit, or
$0.07 per diluted share. The consolidation of these
variable interest entities increased income before cumulative
effect of changes in accounting principles for the year ended
December 31, 2004 by approximately


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

$4 million, net of taxes, or $0.01 per
diluted share. The following table summarizes the balance sheet
impact of consolidation of these entities as of
December 31, 2003 (in millions):

Non-special purpose variable interest
entities

— On March 31,
2004, our application of FIN 46 to non-special purpose type
variable interest entities resulted in the consolidation of
certain trusts established to support the performance of
closure, post-closure and environmental remediation activities.
Upon consolidating these entities, we recorded an increase in
our net assets and a credit of approximately $8 million,
net of taxes, or $0.01 per diluted share, as a cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle. The consolidation of
these variable interest entities has not materially affected our
results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Additionally, our results of operations for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002 would not have been
significantly impacted by the consolidation of these entities as
of the beginning of the earliest year presented. Therefore, the
application of FIN 46 to these variable interest entities
has been excluded from the pro forma disclosures provided below.

See Note 19 for further discussion on these
variable interest entities.

Repairs and Maintenance

Through December 31, 2002, we accrued in
advance for major repairs and maintenance expenditures and we
deferred costs associated with annual plant outages at our
waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production
plants. Effective January 1, 2003, we changed our policy
from this method to one that expenses these costs as they are
incurred. In the first quarter of 2003, we recorded
approximately $25 million, net of taxes, or $0.04 per
diluted share, as a credit to cumulative effect of changes in
accounting principles. Our current method of accounting is
preferable because it (i) provides operating results that
more clearly reflect the timing and amount of required
expenditures, (ii) more clearly reflects our assets and
liabilities, and (iii) reduces the need to make additional
estimates and assumptions.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Loss Contracts

Through December 31, 2002, if our customer
contracts were projected to have direct costs greater than
revenues over the life of the contract, we accrued for those
future losses. Effective January 1, 2003, we changed our
policy from this method to one that expenses these losses as
they are incurred. In the first quarter of 2003, we recorded
approximately $30 million, net of taxes, or $0.05 per
diluted share, as a credit to cumulative effect of changes in
accounting principles. Our current method of accounting is
preferable because it (i) provides operating results that
more clearly reflect the timing and amount of contract losses
generated; (ii) more clearly reflects our liabilities; and
(iii) reduces the need to make additional estimates and
assumptions.

Adoption of
    SFAS No. 143 — Accounting for Asset
    Retirement Obligations

In the first quarter of 2003, we recorded
approximately $101 million, including tax benefit, or
$0.17 per diluted share, as a charge to cumulative effect
of changes in accounting principles for the adoption of
SFAS No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations

. Substantially all of this charge was related to
changes in accounting for landfill final capping, closure and
post-closure costs. The initial adoption of
SFAS No. 143 resulted in a $96 million increase
in net landfill assets and a $266 million increase in our
landfill liabilities, of which $67 million related to our
current liabilities.

See further discussion related to the impact of
our adoption of SFAS No. 143 on our accounting
policies under

Landfill Accounting

within Note 3.

Pro Forma Financial
    Information

If the accounting changes we implemented during
2003 for special purpose variable interest entities, major
repairs and maintenance, loss contracts and asset retirement
obligations had been effective since 2002, the impact on income
before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles and
earnings per common share (in millions, except per share
amounts) would have been as follows:


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Reclassifications

In 2004, as a result of internal review
processes, we identified certain items that required
modification to our accounting and reporting. The following
discussion provides information about each of the changes
identified and the reclassifications made in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements to conform our prior
years’ presentation to the current year’s presentation.

We have various investments in unconsolidated
entities that we account for using the equity method. Our equity
in the earnings of these entities has historically been
presented as a component of other income in our statements of
operations and the related cash flow impact has been reflected
as a component of the change in other assets within our
statements of cash flows. As a result of investments we made
during 2004, as described


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

in Note 8, this activity has become a more
significant component of our net income and operating cash flow
activity. Accordingly, we have shown equity in earnings and
losses of unconsolidated entities as a separate component within
our statement of operations and equity in earnings and losses of
unconsolidated entities, net of distributions, as a separate
component of cash provided by operating activities. Prior
periods have been reclassified to conform to the current
period’s presentation.

In March 2002, we adopted a new organizational
structure to align collection, transportation, recycling and
disposal resources into market areas, and we reduced the number
of layers of management and consolidated certain administrative
and support functions. After the adoption of the new
organizational structure, we determined that certain employee
costs and facility-related expenses previously recorded as
selling, general and administrative expenses were more
appropriately classified as operating expenses. These costs
include certain maintenance and repairs, property taxes,
insurance and claims, rent, utilities, permits and fees. Costs
identified for reclassification are those costs incurred
beginning in the second quarter of 2002, as this was the first
full accounting period that these organizational changes were
effective. As a result, operating and selling, general and
administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2002 are not
comparable to those of subsequent periods.

Additionally, certain other minor
reclassifications have been made to our prior period
consolidated financial statements in order to conform to the
current year presentation. The supplementary financial
information included herein has been updated to reflect these
changes.

3.

Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies

Principles of consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of WMI, its majority-owned
subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities after
elimination of all material intercompany balances and
transactions. Investments in entities in which we do not have a
controlling financial interest are accounted for under either
the equity method or cost method of accounting, as appropriate.
These investments are regularly reviewed for impairment and
propriety of accounting treatment.

Estimates and assumptions

In preparing our financial statements, we make
numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting
for and recognition of assets, liabilities, stockholders’
equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and
assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent
on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of
precision from data available or simply cannot be readily
calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some
cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine
and we must exercise significant judgment The most difficult,
subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that deal
with the greatest amount of uncertainty that we make in
preparing our financial statements relate to our accounting for
landfills, environmental liabilities and asset impairments, as
described below within Landfill accounting, Asset impairments
and Contingent liabilities.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of
cash on deposit, certificates of deposit, money market accounts,
and investment grade commercial paper purchased with original
maturities of three months or less. For discussion regarding the
reclassification made to prior years’ balances to conform
to the current year’s presentation, refer to Note 2.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Concentrations of credit risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject us
to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and
cash equivalents, investments held within our trust funds and
escrow accounts, accounts receivable and derivative instruments.
We control our exposure to credit risk associated with these
instruments by (i) placing our assets and other financial
interests with a diverse group of credit-worthy financial
institutions; (ii) holding high quality financial
instruments while limiting investments in any one instrument;
and (iii) maintaining strict policies over credit extension
that include credit evaluations, credit limits and monitoring
procedures, although generally we do not have collateral
requirements. In addition, our overall credit risk associated
with trade receivables is limited due to the large number of
geographically diverse customers we service. At
December 31, 2004 and 2003, no single customer represented
greater than 5% of total accounts receivable.

Trade, notes and other
    receivables

Our receivables are recorded when billed or
advanced and represent claims against third parties that will be
settled in cash. The carrying value of our receivables, net of
the allowance for doubtful accounts, represents their estimated
net realizable value. We estimate our allowance for doubtful
accounts based on historical collection trends, type of
customer, such as municipal or non-municipal, the age of
outstanding receivables and existing economic conditions. If
events or changes in circumstances indicate that specific
receivable balances may be impaired, further consideration is
given to the collectiblity of those balances and the allowance
is adjusted accordingly. Past-due receivable balances are
written-off when our internal collection efforts have been
unsuccessful in collecting the amount due. Also, we generally
recognize interest income on long-term interest-bearing notes
receivable as the interest accrues under the terms of the notes.

Property and equipment

Property and equipment are recorded at cost.
Expenditures for major additions and improvements are
capitalized. Minor replacements, maintenance and repairs are
charged to expense as incurred.

Depreciation is provided over the estimated
useful lives of the related assets using the straight-line
method. We assume no salvage value for our depreciable property
and equipment. The estimated useful lives for significant
property and equipment categories are as follows (in years):

We capitalize certain costs associated with
developing or obtaining internal-use software. These costs
include external direct costs of materials and services used in
developing or obtaining the software and payroll and
payroll-related costs for employees directly associated with the
software development project. We depreciate software development
costs over a period of up to five years once the related systems
are placed in service. We are currently assessing our options
with respect to the implementation of a revenue management
system with an accumulated cost basis at December 31, 2004
of approximately $80 million. No impairment of this asset
has been required through December 31, 2004, although there
are certain reasonably possible implementation alternatives that
could result in impairment.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

When property and equipment are retired, sold or
otherwise disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are
removed from our accounts and any resulting gain or loss is
included in results of operations as increases or offsets to
operating expense for the period.

Leases

We lease certain property, plant and equipment in
the ordinary course of our business. Our leases have varying
terms. Some may include renewal or purchase options, escalation
clauses, restrictions, penalties or other obligations that we
consider in determining minimum lease payments. The leases are
classified as either capital leases or operating leases, as
appropriate.

Operating leases — Management expects
that in the normal course of business, operating leases will be
renewed or replaced by other leases. Our future operating lease
payments, for which we are contractually obligated as of
December 31, 2004, are disclosed in Note 10.

Capital leases — Assets under capital
leases are capitalized using interest rates appropriate at the
inception of each lease and are amortized over either the useful
life of the asset or the lease term on a straight-line basis.
The present value of the related lease payments is recorded as a
debt obligation. Our future minimum annual capital lease
payments are included in our total future debt obligations as
disclosed in Note 7.

Landfill accounting

Effective January 1, 2003, our method of
accounting for landfill final capping, closure and post-closure
changed as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 143.
With the exception of the accounting for capitalized and future
landfill final capping costs, SFAS No. 143 does not
change basic life-cycle accounting. The table below compares our
historical practices to the method prescribed by
SFAS No. 143.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The cost estimates for final capping, closure and
post-closure activities at landfills for which we have
responsibility are estimated based on our interpretations of
current requirements and proposed or anticipated regulatory
changes. We also estimate additional costs, pursuant to the
requirements of SFAS No. 143, based on the amount a
third party would charge us to perform such activities even when
we expect to perform these activities internally. Additionally,
we estimate the airspace to be consumed related to each final
capping event and the timing of each final capping event and
closure and post-closure activities. Because landfill final
capping, closure and post-closure obligations are measured at
estimated fair value using present value techniques, changes in
the estimated timing of future landfill final capping and
closure and post-closure activities would have an effect on
these liabilities, related assets and results of operations.

Landfill Costs — We estimate the total
cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its final
capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner
material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill
leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems,
environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill
gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and
on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure
costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land
purchases for landfill footprint and required landfill buffer
property. The projection of these landfill costs are dependent,
in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis
related to costs to develop a site to its final capacity
includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of
accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future
purchase and development costs.

Final Capping Costs — We estimate the
cost for each final capping event based on the area to be
finally capped and the capping materials and activities
required. The estimates also consider when these costs would
actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our
engineering personnel allocate final landfill capping costs to
specific capping events. They then quantify the landfill
capacity associated with each final capping event and the final
capping costs for each event are amortized over the related
capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at
the landfill. We review these costs annually or more often, as


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

significant facts change. Changes in estimates,
such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events
where the associated capacity is fully consumed immediately
impact the required liability and the corresponding asset.
However, as the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed
asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately
through expense.

Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We
base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our
interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for
closure and post-closure maintenance and monitoring. The
estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also
consider when the costs would actually be paid and factor in,
where appropriate, inflation and discount rates. The possibility
of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the
forward-looking nature of these types of costs make any
estimation or assumption uncertain.

Available Airspace — Our engineers are
responsible for determining available airspace at our landfills.
This is done by using surveys and other methods to calculate,
based on permit mandated height restrictions and other factors,
how much airspace is left to fill and how much waste can be
disposed of at a landfill before it has reached its final
capacity.

Expansion Airspace — We also include
currently unpermitted airspace in our estimate of available
airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace
associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect
the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within
one year, and the expansion permit to be received within five
years. Second, we must believe the success of obtaining the
final expansion permit is likely, using the following criteria:

These criteria are initially evaluated by our
field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to
identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. However,
our policy provides that, based on the facts and circumstances
of a specific landfill, if these criteria are not met, inclusion
of unpermitted airspace may still be allowed. In these
circumstances, inclusion must be approved through a
landfill-specific review process that includes approval of the
Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the
73 landfill sites with expansions at December 31,
2004, 19 landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to
approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Approximately
three-fourths of these landfills required approval by the Chief
Financial Officer because legal, community, or other issues
could impede the expansion process, while the remaining were
primarily because the permit application processes would not
meet the one and five year requirement, which in many cases were
due to state-specific permitting procedures. When we include the
expansion airspace in our calculations of available airspace, we
also include the projected costs for development, as well as the
projected asset retirement cost related to final capping, and
closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization
basis of the landfill.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

After determining the costs at our landfills, we
determine the per ton rates that will be expensed. We look at
factors such as the waste stream, geography and rate of
compaction, among others, to determine the number of tons
necessary to fill the available and likely expansion airspace
relating to these costs and activities. We then divide costs by
the corresponding number of tons, giving us the rate per ton to
expense for each activity as waste is received and deposited at
the landfill. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each
landfill for assets associated with each final capping event,
for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and
for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the
future. These rates per ton are updated annually or more often,
as significant facts change.

It is possible that actual results could
ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our
estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or
related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than
actual results, or our belief that we will receive an expansion
permit changes adversely in a significant manner, the costs of
the landfill, including the costs incurred in the pursuit of the
expansion, may be subject to impairment testing, as described
below. Lower profitability may be experienced due to higher
amortization rates, higher closure and post-closure rates, and
higher expenses or asset impairments related to the removal of
previously included expansion airspace. Additionally, if it is
determined that the likelihood of receiving the expansion permit
has become remote, the capitalized costs related to the
expansion effort are expensed immediately.

Business combinations

All acquisitions since January 1, 2000 have
been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. We
allocate the cost of the acquired business to the assets
acquired and the liabilities assumed based on estimates of fair
values thereof. These estimates are revised during the
allocation period as necessary if, and when, information
regarding contingencies becomes available to further define and
quantify assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The allocation
period generally does not exceed one year. To the extent
contingencies such as preacquisition environmental matters,
litigation and related legal fees are resolved or settled during
the allocation period, such items are included in the revised
allocation of the purchase price. After the allocation period,
the effect of changes in such contingencies is included in
results of operations in the periods in which the adjustments
are determined. We do not believe potential differences between
our fair value estimates and actual fair values are material.

In certain business combinations, we agree to pay
additional amounts to sellers contingent upon achievement by the
acquired businesses of certain negotiated goals, such as
targeted revenue levels, targeted disposal volumes or the
issuance of permits for expanded landfill airspace. Contingent
payments, when incurred, are recorded as purchase price
adjustments or compensation expense, as appropriate, based on
the nature of each contingent payment.

Goodwill and other intangible
    assets

Goodwill is the excess of our purchase cost over
the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses. All
amortization of goodwill ceased January 1, 2002 in
accordance with SFAS No. 142,

Accounting for
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

. For discussion
regarding the reclassification made to prior year’s
balance, refer to Note 2.

Other intangible assets consist primarily of
customer contracts, customer lists, covenants not-to-compete,
licenses and permits (other than landfill permits, as all
landfill related intangible assets are combined with landfill
tangible assets and amortized using our landfill amortization
policy). Other intangible assets are recorded at cost and are
amortized using either a 150% declining balance approach or on a
straight-line basis as we determine appropriate. Customer
contracts and customer lists are generally amortized over seven
to ten years. Covenants not-to-compete are amortized over the
term of the noncompete covenant, which is generally two to five
years. Licenses, permits and other contracts are amortized over
the definitive terms of the related


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

agreements. If the underlying agreement does not
contain definitive terms and the useful life is determined to be
indefinite, the asset is not amortized.

Asset impairments

Long-lived assets consist primarily of property
and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. Property,
equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill are recorded
in our balance sheets based on their cost less accumulated
depreciation or amortization. The recoverability of long-lived
assets is tested whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
Typical indicators that an asset may be impaired include:

If any of these or other indicators occur, the
asset is reviewed to determine whether there has been an
impairment. An impairment loss is recorded as the difference
between the carrying amount and fair value of the asset. If
significant events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying value of an asset or asset group may not be
recoverable, we perform a test of recoverability by comparing
the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its
undiscounted expected future cash flows. Cash flow projections
are sometimes based on a group of assets, rather than a single
asset. If cash flows cannot be separately and independently
identified for a single asset, we will determine whether an
impairment has occurred for the group of assets for which we can
identify the projected cash flow. If the carrying values are in
excess of undiscounted expected future cash flows, we measure
any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset or asset
group to its carrying value. Fair value is determined by either
an actual third-party valuation or an internally developed
discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or asset
group. If the fair value of an asset or asset group is
determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset or
asset group, an impairment in the amount of the difference is
recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs to
asset impairments and unusual items. Several impairment
indicators are beyond our control, and cannot be predicted with
any certainty whether or not they will occur. Estimating future
cash flows requires significant judgment and projections may
vary from cash flows eventually realized. There are other
considerations for impairments of landfills and goodwill, as
described below.

Landfills — Certain of the indicators
listed above require significant judgment and understanding of
the waste industry when applied to landfill development or
expansion projects. For example, a regulator may initially deny
a landfill expansion permit application though the expansion
permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may
periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to
conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace. Therefore,
certain events could occur in the ordinary course of business
and not necessarily be considered indicators of impairment of
our landfill assets due to the unique nature of the waste
industry.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Goodwill — At least annually, we assess
whether goodwill is impaired. Upon determining the existence of
goodwill impairment, we measure that impairment based on the
amount by which the book value of goodwill exceeds its implied
fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by
deducting the fair value of a reporting unit’s identifiable
assets and liabilities from the fair value of the reporting unit
as a whole, as if that reporting unit had just been acquired and
the purchase price were being initially allocated. Additional
impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if
we encounter events or changes in circumstances, such as those
listed above, that would indicate that, more likely than not,
the book value of goodwill has been impaired.

Restricted trust and escrow
    accounts

Restricted trust and escrow accounts consist
principally of (i) funds held in trust for the construction
of various facilities; (ii) funds deposited in connection
with landfill closure, post-closure and remedial obligations;
and (iii) funds held in trust for the repayment of our debt
obligations. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, we had
approximately $647 million and $752 million,
respectively, of restricted trust and escrow accounts, which are
generally included in other non-current assets in our
consolidated balance sheets.

Tax-exempt bond
funds

— We obtain funds from
the issuance of industrial revenue bonds for the construction of
collection and disposal facilities and for equipment necessary
to provide waste management services. Proceeds from these
arrangements are directly deposited into trust accounts, and we
do not have the ability to use the funds in regular operating
activities. Accordingly, these borrowings are excluded from
financing activities in our statement of cash flows. At the time
our construction and equipment expenditures have been documented
and approved by the applicable bond trustee, the funds are
released and we receive cash. These amounts are reported in the
statement of cash flows as an investing activity when the cash
is released from the trust funds. Generally, the funds are fully
expended within a few years of the debt issuance. When the debt
matures, we repay our obligation with cash on hand and the debt
repayments are included as a financing activity in the statement
of cash flows.

Our trust fund assets funded by industrial
revenue bonds and held for future capital expenditures are
invested in U.S. government agency debt securities with
maturities ranging from less than one year to three years. For
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, our realized
and unrealized gains on these investments have not been material
to our results of operations and financial position.

Closure, post-closure and remedial
funds

— At several of our
landfills, we provide financial assurance by depositing cash
into escrow accounts or trust funds that are legally restricted
for purposes of settling closure, post-closure and remedial
obligations. Balances maintained in these trust funds and escrow
accounts will fluctuate based on (i) changes in statutory
requirements; (ii) the ongoing use of funds for qualifying
closure, post-closure and remedial activities;
(iii) acquisitions or divestitures of landfills; and
(iv) changes in the fair value of the underlying financial
instruments. The balance of these trusts has been increased as
of March 31, 2004 as a result of our implementation of
FIN 46 as discussed in 2004 Accounting Changes, above, and
in Notes 2 and 19.

Debt service
funds

— Funds are held in
trust to meet future principal and interest payments required
under certain of our tax-exempt project bonds.

Derivative financial
    instruments

We use derivative financial instruments to manage
our interest rate, commodity price and foreign currency
exposure. We estimate the future prices of commodity fiber
products to derive the current fair value of commodity
derivatives and obtain current valuations of interest rate and
foreign currency hedging instruments from third-party pricing
models to obtain these fair values. The estimated fair values of
derivatives


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

used to hedge risks fluctuate over time and
should be viewed in relation to the underlying hedging
transaction and the overall management of our exposure to
fluctuations in the underlying risks.

The fair value of derivatives is included in
other current assets, other long-term assets, accrued
liabilities or other long-term liabilities, as appropriate. Any
ineffectiveness present in either fair value or cash flow hedges
is recognized immediately in earnings without offset. There was
no significant ineffectiveness in 2004, 2003 or 2002.

•

Cash flow hedges — The offsetting
    amounts for those derivatives designated as cash flow hedges for
    accounting purposes are recorded in other comprehensive income
    within the equity section of our balance sheet. Upon
    termination, the associated balance in other comprehensive
    income is amortized to earnings as the hedged cash flows occur.

•

Fair value hedges — The offsetting
    amounts for those derivatives designated as fair value hedges
    for accounting purposes are recorded as adjustments to the
    carrying values of the hedged items. Upon termination, this
    carrying value adjustment is amortized to earnings over the
    remaining life of the hedged item.

As of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the
net fair value and earnings impact of our commodity and foreign
currency derivatives were immaterial to our financial position
and results of operations. As further discussed in Note 7,
our use of interest rate derivatives to manage our fixed to
floating rate position has had a material impact on our
operating cash flows, carrying value of debt and interest
expense during these periods.

Self-insurance reserves and
    recoveries

We have retained a portion of the risks related
to our automobile, general liability and workers’
compensation insurance programs. The exposure for unpaid claims
and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported
losses, is estimated with the assistance of external actuaries.
The gross estimated liability associated with settling unpaid
claims is included in accrued liabilities if expected to be
settled within one year, or otherwise is included in other
long-term liabilities. Estimated insurance recoveries related to
recorded liabilities are reflected as current notes and other
receivables or other long-term assets, when we believe that the
receipt of such amounts is highly probable.

Foreign currency

The functional currency of our subsidiaries
outside the United States is the local currency of the country.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated
to U.S. dollars using the exchange rate at the balance
sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated to
U.S. dollars using an average exchange rate during the
period. The resulting translation difference is reflected as a
component of other comprehensive income. For discussion
regarding the reclassification made to prior years’ foreign
currency translation balances, refer to Note 2.

Revenue recognition

Our revenues are generated from the fees we
charge for waste collection, transfer, disposal and recycling
services and the sale of recycled commodities, electricity and
steam. The fees charged for our services are generally defined
in our service agreements and vary based on contract specific
terms such as frequency of service, volume and the general
market factors influencing a region’s rates. We generally
recognize revenue as services are performed or products are
delivered. For example, revenue typically is recognized as waste
is collected, tons are received at our landfills or transfer
stations or as kilowatts are delivered to a customer by a
waste-to-energy facility.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

We bill for certain services prior to
performance. Such services include, among others, certain
residential contracts that are billed on a quarterly basis and
equipment rentals. These advance billings are included in
deferred revenues and recognized as revenue in the period
service is provided.

For discussion regarding the reclassification
made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year’s
presentation, refer to Note 2.

Capitalized interest

We capitalize interest on certain projects under
development, including landfill projects and likely landfill
expansion projects, and on certain assets under construction,
including internal-use software, operating landfills and
waste-to-energy facilities. During 2004, 2003 and 2002, total
interest costs were approximately $477 million,
$461 million and $487 million, respectively, of which
approximately $22 million for both 2004 and 2003 and
approximately $20 million for 2002, were capitalized,
primarily for landfill construction costs. The capitalization of
interest for operating landfills is based on the costs incurred
on discrete landfill cell construction projects that are
expected to exceed $500,000 and require over 60 days to
construct. In addition to the direct cost of the cell
construction project, the calculation of capitalized interest
includes an allocated portion of the common landfill site costs.
The common site costs include the development costs of a
landfill project or the purchase price of an operating landfill,
and the ongoing infrastructure costs benefiting the landfill
over its useful life. Under our current accounting practices,
cell construction costs include the construction of cell liners
during the operating life of the site.

Income taxes

Deferred income taxes are based on the difference
between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and
liabilities. The deferred income tax provision represents the
change during the reporting period in the deferred tax assets
and deferred tax liabilities, net of the effect of acquisitions
and dispositions. Deferred tax assets include tax loss and
credit carryforwards and are reduced by a valuation allowance
if, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that
some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized. For discussion regarding the reclassification made to
prior year’s net deferred tax liability balance, refer to
Note 2.

Accounting for stock options

We have accounted for our stock-based
compensation, as discussed in detail in Note 15, using the
intrinsic value method prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

, as amended.
Pursuant to APB Opinion No. 25, we have not recognized
compensation cost for our stock options because the number of
shares potentially issuable and the exercise price, which is
equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock on the
date of grant, are fixed. In accordance with
SFAS No. 123(revised 2004),

Share Based
Payment

, we will begin to recognize compensation expense for
stock options in the third quarter of 2005, as discussed in
Note 23.

The following schedule reflects the pro forma
impact on net income and earnings per common share of accounting
for our stock option grants using SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

, which


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

would result in the recognition of compensation
expense for the fair value of stock option grants (in millions,
except per share amounts):

The fair value of our stock option grants in the
table above was estimated utilizing the Black-Scholes option
pricing model. The following weighted average assumptions were
used: dividend yield of from zero to 2.79%; risk-free interest
rates, which vary for each grant, ranging from 1.34% to 4.94%;
expected life of six years for all grants; and stock price
volatility ranging from 26.41% to 41.50%. Black-Scholes is a
formula that calculates an estimated value of stock options
based on appreciation and interest rate assumptions. Therefore,
the fair value calculation of a stock option using Black-Scholes
is not necessarily indicative of the actual value of a stock
option.

Contingent liabilities

We estimate the amount of potential exposure we
may have with respect to claims, assessments and litigation in
accordance with SFAS No. 5,

Accounting for
Contingencies

. We are subject to an array of laws and
regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under
current laws and regulations, we may have liability for
environmental damage caused by operations, or for damage caused
by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. Such
liabilities include potentially responsible party
(“PRP”) investigations, settlements, certain legal and
consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site
investigation and clean up, such as materials and incremental
internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for
expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations
when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated.

Our estimations are based on several factors. We
estimate costs required to remediate sites where it is probable
that a liability has been incurred based on site-specific facts
and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that
require remediation, considering whether we were an owner,
operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and
type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were
associated with the site. Next, we review the same information
with respect to other named and unnamed


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

PRPs. Estimates of the cost for the likely remedy
are then either developed using our internal resources or by
third party environmental engineers or other service providers.
Internally developed estimates are based on:

See Note 4 for further discussion.

We are also party to pending or threatened legal
proceedings covering a wide range of matters in various
jurisdictions. It is not always possible to predict the outcome
of litigation, as it is subject to many uncertainties.
Additionally, it is not always possible for management to make a
meaningful estimate of the potential loss or range of loss
associated with such litigation.

Supplemental cash flow
    information

Non-cash investing and financing activities are
excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows. For the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, non-cash
activities included proceeds from tax-exempt borrowings, net of
principal payments made directly from trust funds, of
$283 million, $456 million and $424 million,
respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we
also had increases in our debt obligations as a result of
acquisitions and non-cash borrowings. The primary component of
our non-cash financings was the issuance of approximately
$118.5 million of debt in return for our equity investment
in two synthetic fuel production facilities. These investments
are discussed in detail in Note 8. We treated these
transactions as non-cash financing activities in our statements
of cash flows.

4.

Landfill and Environmental Remediation
    Liabilities

Landfill

We have material financial commitments for final
capping, closure and post-closure obligations with respect to
our landfills. We develop our estimates of these obligations
using input from our operations personnel, engineers and
accountants. Our estimates are based on our interpretation of
current requirements and proposed regulatory changes and are
intended to approximate fair value under the provisions of
SFAS No. 143. Absent quoted market prices, the
estimate of fair value should be based on the best available
information, including the results of present value techniques.
In general, we contract with third parties to fulfill most of
our obligations for final capping, closure and post-closure.
Accordingly, the fair value of these obligations is based upon
quoted and actual prices paid for similar work. However, we
intend to perform some of these activities using internal
resources. Where internal resources are expected to be used to
fulfill an asset retirement obligation, we add a profit margin
to the estimated cost of such services to better reflect the
fair value of the obligation. When we then perform these
services internally, the added profit margin is recognized as a
component of operating income in the period earned. An estimate
of fair value should include the price that marketplace
participants are able to receive for bearing the uncertainties
in cash flows. However, when using discounted cash flow
techniques, reliable estimates of market premiums may not be
obtainable. In the waste industry, there is no market for
selling the responsibility for final capping, closure and
post-closure obligations independent of selling the landfill in
its entirety. Accordingly, we do not believe that it is possible
to develop a methodology to reliably estimate a market risk
premium and have therefore excluded any such market risk premium
from our determination of expected cash flows for landfill asset
retirement obligations.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Once we have determined the final capping,
closure and post-closure costs, we inflate those costs to the
expected time of payment and discount those expected future
costs back to present value. During 2004 and 2003, we have
inflated these costs in current dollars until the expected time
of payment using an inflation rate of 2.5%. We discounted these
costs to present value using a credit-adjusted, risk-free
discount rate of 6.25% and 7.25% during 2004 and 2003,
respectively. The credit-adjusted, risk-free rate is based on
the risk-free interest rate on obligations of similar maturity
adjusted for our own credit rating. Changes in our
credit-adjusted, risk-free rate do not change recorded
liabilities, but subsequently recognized obligations are
measured using the revised credit-adjusted, risk-free rate.

We record the estimated fair value of final
capping, closure and post-closure liabilities for our landfills
based on the capacity consumed through the current period. The
liability and corresponding asset are recorded on a per-ton
basis as waste is accepted and deposited at our landfills. We
assess the appropriateness of our recorded balances annually,
unless there are indications that a more frequent review is
appropriate. Significant changes in inflation rates or the
amount or timing of future final capping, closure and
post-closure cost estimates associated with airspace to be
consumed in future periods typically result in both (i) a
current adjustment to the recorded liability (and corresponding
adjustment to the landfill asset) based on the landfill’s
capacity consumed to date and (ii) a change in liability
and asset amounts to be recorded prospectively over the
remaining capacity of the landfill. Any changes related to the
capitalized and future cost of the landfill assets are then
recognized in accordance with our amortization policy, which
would generally result in amortization expense being recognized
prospectively over the remaining capacity of the final capping
event or the landfill, as appropriate. Changes in such estimates
associated with airspace that has been fully utilized result in
an adjustment to the recorded liability and a corresponding
adjustment to landfill airspace amortization expense. During the
year ended December 31, 2004, adjustments associated with
changes in our expectations for the timing and cost of future
final capping, closure and post-closure of fully utilized
airspace resulted in a $20 million credit to landfill
airspace amortization expense, with the majority of the credit
resulting from final capping changes. In managing our landfills,
our engineers look for ways to reduce or defer our construction
costs, including final capping costs. Most of the benefit
recognized in 2004 is the result of concerted efforts to obtain
landfill permit modifications to allow us to final cap a
landfill using more cost effective methods, landfill expansions
that result in reduced or deferred final capping costs, or
completed final capping construction that cost less than the
accrual. Such adjustments to final capping, closure and
post-closure were not significant in the prior year.

Interest accretion on final capping, closure and
post-closure liabilities is recorded using the effective
interest method and is recorded as final capping, closure and
post-closure expense, which is included in operating costs and
expenses on the income statement.

In the United States, the final capping, closure
and post-closure requirements are established by the EPA and
applied on a state-by-state basis. The costs to comply with
these requirements could change materially as a result of
legislation or regulation.

Environmental Remediation

We routinely review and evaluate sites that
require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the
likely remedy based on several estimates and assumptions as
described in Note 3. There can sometimes be a range of
reasonable estimates of the costs associated with the likely
remedy of a site. In these cases, we use the amount within the
range that constitutes our best estimate. If no amount within
the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use
the amounts that are the low ends of such ranges in accordance
with SFAS No. 5 and its interpretations. If we used
the high ends of such ranges, our aggregate potential liability
would be approximately $175 million higher on a discounted
basis than the $324 million recorded in the consolidated
financial statements as of December 31, 2004.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2004, we had been
notified that we are a PRP in connection with 71 locations
listed on the EPA’s National Priorities List
(“NPL”). Of the 71 sites at which claims have been
made against us, 16 are sites we own that were initially
developed by others as land disposal facilities. At each of the
16 owned facilities, we are working in conjunction with the
government to characterize or remediate identified site
problems. In addition, at these 16 owned facilities, we have
either agreed with other legally liable parties on an
arrangement for sharing the costs of remediation or are pursuing
resolution of an allocation formula. We generally expect to
receive any amounts due from these parties at, or near, the time
that we make the remedial expenditures. The 55 NPL sites at
which claims have been made against us and that we do not own
are at different procedural stages under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980,
as amended, which is known as CERCLA or Superfund. At some of
these sites, our liability is well defined as a consequence of a
governmental decision as to the appropriate remedy and an
agreement among liable parties as to the share each will pay for
implementing that remedy. At other sites, where no remedy has
been selected or the liable parties have been unable to agree on
an appropriate allocation, our future costs are uncertain. Any
of these matters could potentially have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated financial statements.

Estimating our degree of responsibility for
remediation of a particular site is inherently difficult and
determining the method and ultimate cost of remediation requires
that a number of assumptions be made. Our ultimate
responsibility may differ materially from current estimates. It
is possible that technological, regulatory or enforcement
developments, the results of environmental studies, the
inability to identify other PRPs, the inability of other PRPs to
contribute to the settlements of such liabilities, or other
factors could require us to record additional liabilities that
could be material. Additionally, our ongoing review of our
remediation liabilities could result in revisions that could
cause upward or downward adjustments to income from operations.
These adjustments could be material in any given period.

Where we believe that both the amount of a
particular environmental remediation liability and the timing of
the payments are reliably determinable, we inflate the cost in
current dollars (2.5% at both December 31, 2004 and
December 31, 2003) until the expected time of payment and
discount the cost to present value using a risk-free discount
rate, which is based on the rate for United States treasury
bonds with a term approximating the weighted average period
until settlement of the underlying obligation (4.25% at both
December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003). We determine
the risk-free discount rate and the inflation rate on an annual
basis unless interim changes would significantly impact our
results of operations. For remedial liabilities that have been
discounted, we include interest accretion, based on the
effective interest method, in operating costs and expenses. The
portion of our recorded environmental remedial liabilities that
has never been subject to inflation or discounting as the
amounts and timing of payments is not readily determinable was
approximately $63 million and $60 million at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Had we not
discounted any portion of our environmental remedial liability,
the amount recorded would have been increased by approximately
$40 million at December 31, 2004 and $44 million
at December 31, 2003.

Financial Statement Impact of Landfill and
    Environmental Remediation Obligations

Liabilities for landfill and environmental
remediation costs are presented in the table below (in millions):


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The changes to landfill and environmental
remediation liabilities for the years ended December 31,
2003 and 2004 are as follows (in millions):

Anticipated payments of currently identified
environmental remediation liabilities for the next five years
and thereafter as measured in current dollars are reflected
below (in millions). Our recorded liabilities as of
December 31, 2004 include the impact of inflating these
costs based on our expectations for cash settlement and
discounting these costs to present value.

At several of our landfills, we provide financial
assurance by depositing cash into restricted escrow accounts or
trust funds for purposes of settling closure, post-closure and
environmental remediation obligations. The fair value of these
escrow accounts and trust funds was approximately
$213 million at December 31, 2004, and is primarily
included as other long-term assets in our condensed consolidated
balance sheet. Balances maintained in these trust funds and
escrow accounts will fluctuate based on (i) changes in
statutory requirements; (ii) the ongoing use of funds for
qualifying closure, post-closure and environmental remediation
activities; (iii) acquisitions or divestitures of
landfills; and (iv) changes in the fair value of the
underlying financial instruments.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

5.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment at December 31
consisted of the following (in millions):

(a)

These amounts include our information technology
    assets, including computer hardware and capitalized software
    costs.

Depreciation and amortization expense was
comprised of the following for the years ended December 31
(in millions):

(a)

These amounts include amortization expense for
    assets recorded as capital leases.

6.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

We incurred no impairment of goodwill upon our
initial adoption of SFAS No. 142 in 2002, or as a
result of our annual goodwill impairment tests in 2004, 2003 and
2002. However, there can be no assurance that goodwill will not
be impaired at any time in the future. Additionally, adopting
SFAS No. 141,

Accounting for Business
Combinations

, required us to write off net negative goodwill
of approximately $2 million, which was recorded as a credit
to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in the
first quarter of 2002. We did not encounter any events or
changes in circumstances that indicated that impairment was more
likely than not during interim periods in 2004, 2003 or 2002.

For discussion regarding the adjustment made to
our December 31, 2003 goodwill balance as a result of our
review of deferred tax balances, refer to Note 2.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Our other intangible assets as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003 were comprised of the following
(in millions):

Landfill operating permits are not presented
above and are recognized on a combined basis with other landfill
assets and amortized using our landfill amortization method.
Amortization expense for other intangible assets was
approximately $38 million for both 2004 and 2003 and was
approximately $35 million for 2002. At December 31,
2004, we have approximately $5 million of other intangible
assets that are not subject to amortization. The intangible
asset amortization expense estimated as of December 31,
2004, for the five years following 2004 is as follows (in
millions):

7.

Debt and Interest Rate Derivatives

Debt

Debt at December 31 consisted of the
following (in millions):

(a)

At December 31, 2003, we had a three-year,
    $650 million syndicated revolving credit facility and a
    five-year, $1.75 billion syndicated revolving credit
    facility. On October 15, 2004, we renegotiated these
    facilities, replacing them with a single, five-year,
    $2.4 billion syndicated revolving credit facility. Our
    revolving credit facilities generally have been used to issue
    letters of credit to


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The schedule of anticipated debt repayments
(including the current portion) for the next five years is
presented below (in millions). Our recorded debt obligations
include non-cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums
and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities.
These amounts have been excluded here because they will not
result in cash payments. In addition, approximately
$83 million of the following future debt payments will be
made with debt service funds held in trust and included as other
assets within our December 31, 2004 balance sheet.

2005(a),(b)





$382

$491

$526

$535

$684


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Our debt balances are generally unsecured, except
for approximately $405 million of the tax-exempt project
bonds outstanding at December 31, 2004 that were issued by
certain subsidiaries within our Wheelabrator Group. These bonds
are secured by the related subsidiaries’ assets that have a
carrying value of approximately $652 million and the
related subsidiaries’ future revenue. Additionally, our
consolidated variable interest entities have approximately
$130 million of outstanding borrowings that are
collateralized by certain of their assets. These assets have a
carrying value of approximately $418 million as of
December 31, 2004. See Note 19 for further discussion.

As part of our operations, and in connection with
issuances of tax-exempt bonds, we use letters of credit to
support our bonding and financial assurance needs. The following
table summarizes our outstanding letters of credit (in millions)
categorized by each major facility outstanding at
December 31:

Our letters of credit generally have terms
providing for automatic renewal after one year. In the event of
an unreimbursed draw on a letter of credit, the amount of the
draw paid by the letter of credit provider generally converts
into a term loan for the remaining term under the respective
agreement or facility. Through December 31, 2004, we had
not experienced any unreimbursed draws on letters of credit.

Interest rate swaps

We manage the interest rate risk of our debt
portfolio principally by using interest rate derivatives to
achieve a desired position of fixed and floating rate debt,
which was approximately 63% fixed and 37% floating at
December 31, 2004. We do not use interest rate derivatives
for trading or speculative purposes. Our significant interest
rate swap agreements that were outstanding as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003 are set forth in the table below
(dollars in millions):

No terminations of interest rate swaps were
experienced in 2004. In 2003, we elected to terminate several
interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of
$2.35 billion prior to the scheduled maturities and


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

received cash of $117 million (which was
comprised of $109 million for the fair value of the swaps
terminated and $8 million of interest receivable) from the
counterparties to the interest rate swaps. In 2002, we elected
to terminate several interest rate swap agreements with a
notional amount of $2.95 billion prior to the scheduled
maturities and received cash of $200 million (which was
comprised of $166 million for the fair value of the swaps
that were terminated and $34 million of accrued but unpaid
interest receivable) from the counterparties to the interest
rate swaps. We designated these swap agreements as fair value
hedges, and as such the unamortized adjustment to long-term debt
for the change in fair value of the swaps remains classified as
long-term debt and will be amortized over the remaining life of
the underlying debt. The proceeds received from the termination
of the interest rate swap agreements have been classified as a
change in other assets or other liabilities within operating
activities in the accompanying consolidated statements of cash
flows.

Fair value hedge accounting for interest rate
swap contracts increased the carrying value of debt instruments
by approximately $135 million as of December 31, 2004
and $168 million as of December 31, 2003. The
following table summarizes the accumulated fair value
adjustments from interest rate swap agreements by underlying
debt instrument category at December 31 (in millions):

(a)

At December 31, 2004, $42 million (on a
    pre-tax basis) of the carrying value of debt associated with
    terminated swap agreements is scheduled to be reclassified as a
    credit to interest expense over the next twelve months.
    Approximately $48 million (on a pre-tax basis) of the
    December 31, 2003 balance was reclassified into earnings
    during 2004.

Interest rate swap agreements reduced net
interest expense by approximately $90 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004, approximately $96 million for
the year ended December 31, 2003 and approximately
$86 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The
significant terms of the interest rate contracts and the
underlying debt instruments are identical and therefore no
ineffectiveness has been realized.

Interest rate locks

We have entered into cash flow hedges to secure
underlying interest rates in anticipation of senior note
issuances. These hedging agreements resulted in a deferred loss,
net of taxes, of approximately $36 million at
December 31, 2003 and approximately $35 million at
December 31, 2004, which is included in accumulated other
comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2004,
approximately $6 million (on a pre-tax basis) is scheduled
to be reclassified into interest expense over the next twelve
months.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

8.

Income Taxes

For financial reporting purposes, income before
income taxes and cumulative effect of changes in accounting
principles, showing domestic and foreign sources, was as follows
(in millions):

Provision for income taxes

The provision for taxes on income before
cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles consisted
of the following (in millions):

The U.S. federal statutory income tax rate
is reconciled to the effective rate as follows:

During 2004, the favorable impact of
non-conventional fuel tax credits has been derived from our
landfills and our investments in two coal-based synthetic fuel
production facilities (the “Facilities”), which are


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

discussed in more detail below. The fuel
generated from our landfills and the Facilities qualifies for
tax credits through 2007 pursuant to section 29 of the
Internal Revenue Code, and may be phased-out when the price of
oil exceeds a threshold annual average price determined by the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service.

In the first and second quarters of 2004, we
acquired minority ownership interests in the two Facilities for
approximately $119.7 million, which is comprised primarily
of notes payable of $118.5 million and commitments to fund
our pro-rata share of the operations of the Facilities. We have
also agreed to make additional payments to the seller based on
our pro-rata allocation of the tax credits generated by each
Facility. We have been granted private letter rulings from the
IRS confirming that the synthetic fuel produced by the
Facilities is a “qualified fuel” under Section 29
of the Internal Revenue Code and that the resulting tax credits
may be allocated among the owners of the interests in the
Facilities.

We account for our investment in the Facilities
using the equity method of accounting, which results in the
recognition of our pro-rata share of the Facilities’
losses, the amortization of our initial investments and other
estimated obligations being recorded as equity in losses of
unconsolidated entities within our statement of operations which
totaled approximately $102 million during 2004. We also
recognized interest expense related to these investments of
approximately $8 million during 2004, resulting in total
losses of approximately $110 million for 2004. These
impacts would not have been incurred if we had not acquired the
minority ownership interest in the Facilities, and if the tax
credits generated by the Facilities were no longer allowable
under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code, we would no
longer incur these losses.

The tax benefits that we realize as a result of
our investments in the Facilities have been reflected as a
reduction to our provision for income taxes. This resulted in a
decrease in our tax provision of approximately $131 million
(including $88 million of tax credits) for 2004, which more
than offset the equity losses and interest expense recognized
during the year.

In 2004, and to a lesser extent in 2003, we
settled several tax audits. In 2004 and 2003 we realized
approximately $101 million and $6 million,
respectively, in tax benefits related to these settlements, and
in 2004 we also realized $46 million in interest income
related to these settlements.

Deferred tax assets
    (liabilities)

The components of the net deferred tax assets
(liabilities) at December 31 are as follows (in
millions):

Refer to Note 2 for disclosure associated
with the net deferred tax liability reclassification associated
with the completion of our review of our tax-basis balance
sheets during 2004.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

At December 31, 2004 we had approximately
$11 million of federal net operating loss (“NOL”)
carryforwards, $4.3 billion of state NOL carryforwards, and
$100 million of Canadian NOL carryforwards. The federal and
state NOL carryforwards have expiration dates through the year
2024. The Canadian NOL carryforwards have the following expiry:
$34 million in 2005, $8 million in 2006,
$27 million in 2007, $30 million in 2009 and
$1 million in 2010. We have approximately $1 million
of alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards that may be used
indefinitely and state tax credit carryforwards of
$14 million.

We have established valuation allowances for
uncertainties in realizing the benefit of tax loss and credit
carryforwards and other deferred tax assets. While we expect to
realize the deferred tax assets, net of the valuation
allowances, changes in estimates of future taxable income or in
tax laws may alter this expectation. The valuation allowance
increased approximately $27 million in both 2004 and 2003
primarily due to the uncertainty of realizing federal and state
NOL carryforwards and tax credits.

Unremitted earnings in foreign
    subsidiaries

Unremitted earnings in foreign operations were
approximately $350 million at December 31, 2004. On
October 22, 2004, the President of the United States signed
the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Act”)
into law. A provision of the Act allows companies to repatriate
funds in the form of an 85% deduction of foreign earnings
repatriated at a reduced tax rate under certain circumstances.
We may elect to apply this provision to qualifying earnings
repatriations made during the reporting period ending
December 31, 2005. We are currently evaluating the
potential impact of this legislation, including assessing the
details of the Act and analyzing the funds available for
repatriation. However, given the preliminary status of the
evaluation, we do not expect to be able to complete the analysis
until after Congress or the Treasury Department provide
additional clarifying language on key elements of the provision.
We currently expect to complete our evaluation of the effects of
the repatriation provision within a reasonable period of time
following the publication of the additional clarifying language.
Currently, the range of possible amounts that we are considering
for repatriation under this provision is between zero and
$500 million. The related potential range of income tax for
such repatriation is between zero and $35 million.

9.

Employee Benefit Plans

Our Waste Management Retirement Savings Plan
(“Savings Plan”) covers employees (except those
working subject to collective bargaining agreements, which do
not provide for coverage under such plans) following a 90-day
waiting period after hire. Through December 31, 2004
eligible employees were allowed to contribute up to 15% of their
annual compensation. As of January 1, 2005, eligible
employees may contribute as much as 25% of their pay under the
Savings Plan. All employee contributions are subject to annual
contribution limitations established by the IRS. Under the
Savings Plan, we match, in cash, 100% of employee contributions
on the first 3% of their eligible compensation and match 50% of
employee contributions on the next 3% of their eligible
compensation, resulting in a maximum match of 4.5%. Both
employee and company contributions vest immediately. Charges to
operations for our defined contribution plans were
$46 million in 2004 and $43 million during both 2003
and 2002.

Waste Management Holdings, Inc.
(“WM Holdings”) and certain of its subsidiaries
provided post-retirement health care and other benefits to
eligible employees. In conjunction with our acquisition of
WM Holdings in July 1998, we limited participation in these
plans to participating retired employees as of December 31,
1998. The benefit obligation for these plans was
$62 million and $60 million at December 31, 2004
and 2003, respectively. The discount rate assumptions used in
the measurement of our benefit obligations as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003 were 5.5% and 6.0%,
respectively. The accrued benefit liability as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $62 million and
$64 million, respectively, which is reflected in accrued
liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Participants in the WM Holdings
post-retirement plan contribute to the cost of the benefit, and
for retirees since January 1, 1992, our contribution is
capped at between $0 and $600 per month per retiree, based
on years of service. For measurement purposes, a 12% annual rate
of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care claims
was assumed for 2004 (being an average of the rate used by all
plans); the rate was assumed to decrease to 5.5% in 2010 and
remain at that level thereafter.

A 1% change in assumed health care cost trend
rates has no significant effect on total service and interest
cost components of net periodic post-retirement health care
costs. A 1% increase or decrease in assumed health care cost
trend rates would increase or decrease the accumulated
post-retirement benefit obligation by approximately
$5 million.

Our subsidiaries participate in various
multi-employer employee benefit and pension plans covering
certain union employees not covered under other pension plans.
These multi-employer plans are generally defined contribution
plans. Specific benefit levels provided by union pension plans
are not negotiated with or known by the employer contributors.
Additionally, we have one instance of a site-specific plan for
employees not covered under other plans. The projected benefit
obligation, plan assets and unfunded liability of the
multi-employer pension plans and the site specific plan are not
material. Contributions of $35 million in 2004 and
$31 million during both 2003 and 2002 were charged to
operations for subsidiaries’ defined benefit and
contribution plans.

10.

Commitments and Contingencies

Financial
instruments

— We have
obtained letters of credit, performance bonds and insurance
policies, and have established trust funds and issued financial
guarantees to support tax-exempt bonds, contracts, performance
of landfill closure and post-closure requirements, environmental
remediation, and other obligations.

Historically, our revolving credit facilities
have been used to obtain letters of credit to support our
bonding and financial assurance needs as discussed further in
Note 7. Additionally, we obtain surety bonds and insurance
policies from an affiliated entity that we have an investment in
and account for under the equity method. We also obtain
insurance from a wholly-owned insurance company, the sole
business of which is to issue policies for the parent holding
company and its other subsidiaries, to secure such performance
obligations. In those instances where our use of captive
insurance is not allowed, we generally have available
alternative bonding mechanisms.

Because virtually no claims have been made
against the financial instruments we use to support our
obligations and considering our current financial position,
management does not expect that any claims against or draws on
these instruments would have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial statements. We have not experienced any
unmanageable difficulty in obtaining the required financial
assurance instruments for our current operations. In an ongoing
effort to mitigate risks of future cost increases and reductions
in available capacity, we continue to evaluate various options
to access cost-effective sources of financial assurance.

During 2003, we entered into letter of credit and
term loan agreements and a letter of credit facility to provide
us with additional sources of capacity from which we may obtain
letters of credit. See Note 7 for additional information
related to these arrangements. Additionally in 2003, we
guaranteed the debt of a newly formed surety company in order to
assist in the establishment of that entity. The terms of this
guarantee are further discussed within the Guarantees section of
this note. This variable interest entity is consolidated as
described in Note 19.

Insurance

—
We carry insurance coverage for protection of our assets and
operations from certain risks including automobile liability,
general liability, real and personal property, workers’
compensation, directors’ and officers’ liability,
pollution legal liability and other coverages we believe are
customary to the industry. Our


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

exposure to loss for insurance claims is
generally limited to the per incident deductible under the
related insurance policy. Our exposure, however, could increase
if our insurers were unable to meet their commitments on a
timely basis.

We have retained a portion of the risks related
to our automobile, general liability and workers’
compensation insurance programs. For our self-insured
retentions, the exposure for unpaid claims and associated
expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, is based
on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The estimated
accruals for these liabilities could be affected if future
occurrences or loss development significantly differ from
utilized assumptions. Our current programs carry self-insurance
exposures of up to $2.5 million, $1 million and
$20,000 per incident with regards to general liability,
workers’ compensation and auto, respectively.
Self-insurance claims reserves acquired as part of our
acquisition of WM Holdings in July 1998 were discounted at
4.25% at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The changes to our net
insurance liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2004 are summarized below (in millions):

For the 14 months ended January 1,
2000, we insured certain risks, including auto, general
liability and workers’ compensation, with Reliance National
Insurance Company, whose parent filed for bankruptcy in June
2001. In October 2001, the parent and certain of its
subsidiaries, including Reliance National Insurance Company,
were placed in liquidation. We believe that because of various
state insurance guarantee funds and probable recoveries from the
liquidation, currently estimated to be approximately
$26 million, it is unlikely that events relating to
Reliance will have a material adverse impact on our financial
statements.

We do not expect the impact of any known
casualty, property, environmental or other contingency to have a
material impact on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

Operating
leases

— Rental expense for
leased properties was approximately $127 million,
$174 million and $166 million during 2004, 2003 and
2002, respectively. These amounts primarily include rents under
long-term operating leases. Contractual payments due during the
next five years and thereafter on long-term operating lease
obligations are noted below. The decrease in rental expense from
2003 to 2004 is primarily attributable to the consolidation of
two limited liability companies from which we lease three
waste-to-energy facilities. See Note 19 for further
discussion.

Our minimum contractual payments for lease
agreements during future periods is significantly less than
current year rent expense because our significant lease
agreements at landfills have variable terms based either on a
percentage of revenue or a rate per ton of waste received. Our
minimum operating lease payments for the next five years are as
follows (in millions):


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Other long-term
commitments

— We have the
following unconditional purchase obligations:

Our unconditional purchase obligations are
established in the ordinary course of our business and are
structured in a manner that provides us with access to important
resources at competitive, market-driven rates. Our future
obligations under these outstanding agreements are generally
quantity driven, and, as a result, our associated financial
obligations are not fixed as of December 31, 2004. We
currently expect the products and services provided by these
agreements to continue to meet the needs of our ongoing
operations. Therefore, we do not expect these established
arrangements to materially impact our future financial position,
results of operations or liquidity.

Guarantees

—
We have entered into the following guarantee agreements
associated with our operations:


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

We currently believe that it is not reasonably
likely that we will be required to perform under these guarantee
agreements or that any performance requirement would have a
material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Environmental
matters

— Our business is
intrinsically connected with the protection of the environment.
As such, a significant portion of our operating costs and
capital expenditures could be characterized as costs of
environmental protection. Such costs may increase in the future
as a result of legislation or regulation. However, we believe
that we generally tend to benefit when environmental regulation
increases, because such regulations increase the demand for our
services, and we have the resources and experience to manage
environmental risk. For more information regarding environmental
matters, see Note 4.

Estimates of the extent of our degree of
responsibility for remediation of a particular site and the
method and ultimate cost of remediation require a number of
assumptions and are inherently difficult, and the ultimate
outcome may differ materially from current estimates. However,
we believe that our extensive experience in the environmental
services industry, as well as our involvement with a large
number of sites, provides a reasonable basis for estimating our
aggregate liability. As additional information becomes
available, estimates are adjusted as necessary. It is reasonably
possible that technological, regulatory or enforcement
developments, the results of environmental studies, the
nonexistence or inability of other PRPs to contribute to the


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

settlements of such liabilities, or other factors
could necessitate the recording of additional liabilities which
could be material.

We have been identified as a PRP in a number of
governmental investigations and actions relating to waste
disposal sites that may be subject to remedial action under
CERCLA or similar state laws. The majority of these proceedings
involve allegations that certain of our subsidiaries (or their
predecessors) transported hazardous substances to the sites,
often prior to our acquisition of these subsidiaries. CERCLA
generally provides for liability for those parties owning,
operating, transporting to or disposing at the sites.
Proceedings arising under Superfund typically involve numerous
waste generators and other waste transportation and disposal
companies and seek to allocate or recover costs associated with
site investigation and cleanup, which costs could be substantial
and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
financial statements. At some of the sites at which we’ve
been identified as a PRP, our liability is well defined as a
consequence of a governmental decision and an agreement among
liable parties as to the allocation of costs. At others where no
remedy has been selected or the liable parties have been unable
to agree on an appropriate allocation, our future costs are
uncertain. Any of these matters could have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated financial statements.

For more information regarding commitments and
contingencies with respect to environmental matters, see
Note 4.

Litigation

—
In December 1999, an individual brought an action against the
Company, five former officers of WM Holdings, and
WM Holdings’ former independent auditor, Arthur
Andersen LLP, in Illinois state court on behalf of a proposed
class of individuals who purchased WM Holdings common stock
before November 3, 1994, and who held that stock through
February 24, 1998. The action is for alleged acts of common
law fraud, negligence and breach of fiduciary duty. This case
has remained in the pleadings stage for the last several years
due to numerous motions and rulings by the court related to the
viability of these claims. The defendants removed the case to
federal court in Illinois, but a remand order has been issued.
An appeal of that remand is being filed by the Company. Only
limited discovery has occurred and the defendants continue to
defend themselves vigorously. The extent of possible damages, if
any, in this action cannot yet be determined.

In April 2002, a former participant in
WM Holdings’ ERISA plans and another individual filed
a lawsuit in Washington, D.C. against WMI, WM Holdings
and others, attempting to increase the recovery of a class of
ERISA plan participants based on allegations related to both the
events alleged in, and the settlements relating to, the
securities class action against WM Holdings that was
settled in 1998 and the securities class action against us that
was settled in November 2001. Subsequently, the issues related
to the latter class action have been dropped as to WMI, its
officers and directors. The case is ongoing with respect to
WM Holdings and others, and WM Holdings intends to
defend itself vigorously.

A group of stockholders has opted not to
participate in the settlement of the class action lawsuit
against us related to 1998 and 1999 activity. These stockholders
filed a separate lawsuit against us relating to 1998 activity.
Trial in this case has been set for the first quarter 2005. The
extent of damages cannot be determined at this time, but the
Company intends to defend itself vigorously.

Three groups of stockholders have filed separate
lawsuits in state courts in Texas and federal court in Illinois
against us and certain of our former officers. The lawsuit filed
in Illinois was subsequently transferred to federal court in
Texas. The petitions allege that the plaintiffs are substantial
holders of the Company’s common stock who intended to sell
their stock in 1999, or to otherwise protect themselves against
loss, but that the public statements we made regarding our
prospects, and in some instances statements made by the
individual defendants, were false and misleading and induced the
plaintiffs to retain their stock or not to take other protective
measures. The plaintiffs assert that the value of their retained
stock declined dramatically and that they incurred significant
losses. The plaintiffs assert claims for fraud, negligent
misrepresentation, and


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

conspiracy. The first of these cases was
dismissed by summary judgment by a Texas state court in March
2002. That dismissal was ultimately upheld by the appellate
court. The plaintiffs are pursuing their appeal. The second case
also filed in state court is stayed pending resolution of the
first case, and we intend to continue to vigorously defend
ourselves against these claims. In March 2004, the court granted
our motion to dismiss the third case, which was pending in
federal court, and the plaintiffs have appealed that dismissal.
Finally, another shareholder has sued the Company in Louisiana
making allegations similar to those made in the securities class
action referred to above and by the plaintiff claiming damages
for having held stock. The case has been removed to federal
court and we are seeking a transfer to Texas where we will seek
dismissal.

The Company is currently defending allegations
related generally to the termination of two separate joint
ventures to which one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries was a
party. The claims in both proceedings involve the value of the
joint ventures. The joint venture relationships have ended and
the contributed assets have been divested by the Company. The
Company is defending itself vigorously in each of these
proceedings, in which the parties are seeking a variety of
remedies ranging from monetary damages to unwinding the
transaction. However, the nature and extent of possible remedies
or damages cannot be determined at this time. The first of these
matters has been fully tried and we are awaiting a final ruling
which could happen as early as the first quarter of 2005.

From time to time, we pay fines or penalties in
environmental proceedings relating primarily to waste treatment,
storage or disposal facilities. As of December 31, 2004,
there were six proceedings involving our subsidiaries where we
reasonably believe that the sanctions could exceed $100,000. The
matters involve allegations that subsidiaries (i) operated
a waste-to-energy facility that, as a result of intermittent and
isolated equipment malfunctions, exceeded emission limits and
failed to meet monitoring requirements; (ii) improperly
operated a solid waste landfill by failing to maintain required
records, properly place and cover waste and adhere to proper
leachate levels; (iii) discharged wastewater from a
cogeneration facility in noncompliance with waste discharge
requirements issued pursuant to state water code;
(iv) failed to comply with air permit, landfill gas flow
and emission limit requirements; (v) caused excess odors
and exceeded certain sewer discharge limitations and landfill
gas emission limit requirements at an operating landfill; and
(vi) violated air permit requirements at an operating
landfill. We do not believe that the fines or other penalties in
any of these matters will, individually or in the aggregate,
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or
results of operations.

From time to time, we also are named as
defendants in personal injury and property damage lawsuits,
including purported class actions, on the basis of having owned,
operated or transported waste to a disposal facility that is
alleged to have contaminated the environment or, in certain
cases, on the basis of having conducted environmental
remediation activities at sites. Some of the lawsuits may seek
to have us pay the costs of monitoring and health care
examinations of allegedly affected sites and persons for a
substantial period of time even where no actual damage is
proven. While we believe we have meritorious defenses to these
lawsuits, the ultimate resolution is often substantially
uncertain due to the difficulty of determining the cause, extent
and impact of alleged contamination (which may have occurred
over a long period of time), the potential for successive groups
of complainants to emerge, the diversity of the individual
plaintiffs’ circumstances, and the potential contribution
or indemnification obligations of co-defendants or other third
parties, among other factors. Accordingly, it is possible such
matters could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
financial statements.

It is not always possible to predict the impact
that lawsuits, proceedings, investigations and inquiries may
have on us, nor is it possible to predict whether additional
suits or claims may arise out of the matters described above in
the future. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously in all the
above matters. However, it is possible that the outcome of any
of the matters described, or others, may ultimately have a
material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows in one or more future periods.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

We also are currently involved in other routine
civil litigation and governmental proceedings relating to the
conduct of our business, including litigation involving former
employees and competitors. We do not believe that any of the
matters will ultimately have a material adverse impact on our
consolidated financial statements.

Tax
matters

— We are currently
under audit by the IRS and from time to time are audited by
other taxing authorities. We fully cooperate with all audits,
but defend our positions vigorously. Our audits are in various
stages of completion. Specifically, we are in the process of
concluding the appeals phase of IRS audits for the years 1997 to
2000. The audits for these years should be completed within the
next six months. In addition, the planning phase of an IRS audit
for the years 2002 and 2003 was recently initiated. This audit
should be completed within the next 24 months. To provide
for potential tax exposures, we maintain an allowance for tax
contingencies, the balance of which management believes is
adequate. Results of audit assessments by taxing authorities
could have a material effect on our quarterly or annual cash
flows over the next six months as these audits are completed,
although we do not believe they will have a material adverse
impact on our results of operations.

11.

Restructuring

In 2002, we organized the Company into market
areas to better align our collection, transport, recycling and
disposal resources. As part of the restructuring, we reduced the
number of field layers of management and eliminated
approximately 1,900 field-level administrative and operational
positions. In the first quarter of 2002, we recorded
$37 million of pre-tax charges for costs associated with
the implementation of the new structure. An additional
$1 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2002. These
charges included $36 million for employee severance and
benefit costs and $2 million related to abandoned operating
lease agreements. All payments related to this restructuring
have been made.

In February 2003, we reduced the number of market
areas that make up our geographic operating Groups and reduced
certain overhead positions to further streamline our
organization. Our market areas all report to one of our five
Groups that divide our operations geographically into the
Eastern, Midwest, Southern, Western and Canadian operations. We
manage and evaluate our operations through these five geographic
operating Groups and our Recycling and Wheelabrator Groups,
which represent our reporting segments as further described in
Note 20. We believe that this structure results in a more
effective utilization of resources and enables us to serve our
customers more efficiently. In connection with the
restructuring, we reduced our workforce by about 700 employees
and 270 contract workers. We recorded $20 million of
pre-tax charges for costs associated with our February 2003
restructuring and workforce reduction, all of which was
associated with employee severance and benefit costs.

The operational efficiencies provided by these
organizational changes and a focus on fully utilizing the
capabilities of our information technology resources enabled us
to further reduce our workforce in June 2003. This workforce
reduction resulted in the elimination of an additional 600
employee positions and 200 contract worker positions. In 2003,
we recorded $24 million of pre-tax charges for costs
associated with the June 2003 workforce reduction.

During 2004, we recorded a credit of
approximately $1 million to reduce our accrual for employee
severance costs associated with the 2003 restructuring and
workforce reductions. The following table


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

summarizes (in millions) the total costs to date
for our 2003 restructuring events by our operating Groups as
currently organized, as described in Note 20:

During the year ended December 31, 2003, we
made payment for employee severance and benefit costs of
approximately $18 million for the February 2003
restructuring and workforce reduction and approximately
$15 million for the June 2003 workforce reduction. During
the year ended December 31, 2004 we made additional
payments for employee severance and benefit costs of
approximately $1 million for the February 2003
restructuring and workforce reduction and approximately
$8 million for the June 2003 workforce reduction.

As of December 31, 2004, substantially all
obligations associated with the February 2003 restructuring and
workforce reduction have been paid. The first quarter of 2005 is
the final period we are obligated to make any severance payments
to employees associated with the February 2003 reorganization
and workforce reduction. Approximately $1 million remains
accrued as of December 31, 2004 for employee severance and
benefit costs incurred as a result of the June 2003 workforce
reduction, which will be paid to certain employees through the
third quarter of 2005.

12.

Asset Impairments and Unusual Items

In 2004, 2003 and 2002, we recorded net credits
to asset impairments and unusual items of $13 million,
$8 million and $34 million, respectively.

•

In 2004, the net gain of $13 million for
    asset impairments and unusual items related to
    (i) $17 million in impairment losses primarily due to
    the impairment of certain landfill assets and software
    development costs; (ii) $15 million in gains on
    divestitures that primarily related to certain Port-O-Let
    operations; and (iii) $15 million of gains related to
    adjustments we made to our estimated obligations associated with
    our divested non-solid waste services and our receipt of cash
    from a third-party for a previously settled remedial obligation.

•

In 2003, we recognized approximately
    $5 million in impairments related primarily to the Eastern
    and Corporate Groups, which was offset by $13 million of
    gains realized on divestitures with the most significant
    portions derived from our Western and Southern Groups.

•

In 2002, we realized a gain of $8 million
    derived from changes to litigation settlements and estimates, a
    gain of $7 million primarily comprised or reversals of loss
    contract accruals that were initially recognized as a charge to
    asset impairments and unusual items, a gain of $11 million
    for the receipt of a contingency payment related to a
    non-revenue producing property impaired in 1998 and a net gain
    of $8 million for divestitures.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
    (Loss)

As discussed in Note 2, during 2004 we
identified certain amounts related to our consolidated Canadian
operations that required adjustment to properly capture the
impact of accounting for foreign currency translation
adjustments. The following table has been adjusted to properly
reflect the effects of our foreign currency translation. The
components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were
as follows (in millions):

14.

Capital Stock, Share Repurchases and
    Dividends

Capital stock

As of December 31, 2004, we have
570.2 million shares of common stock issued and
outstanding. We have 1.5 billion shares of authorized
common stock with a par value of $0.01 per common share.
The Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock in
series, and with respect to each series, to fix its designation,
relative rights (including voting, dividend, conversion, sinking
fund, and redemption rights), preferences (including dividends
and liquidation) and limitations. We have ten million shares of
authorized preferred stock, $0.01 par value, none of which
is currently outstanding.

Share repurchases

In February 2002, we announced that our Board of
Directors had approved a stock repurchase program for up to
$1 billion in annual repurchases through 2004 to be
implemented at management’s discretion. In August 2003, we
amended the program, starting in 2004, to allow for
$1 billion of annual expenditures for share repurchases,
net of dividends. During the year ended December 31, 2004,
we paid approximately $496 million for share repurchases,
which included a first quarter cash payment of approximately
$24 million to settle repurchases made in December 2003.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following is a summary of activity under our
stock repurchase program (in millions, except shares in
thousands and price per share):

Dividends

In August 2003, we announced that our Board of
Directors approved a quarterly dividend program. The dividend
was $0.1875 per share per quarter, or $0.75 per share
annually. We paid approximately $432 million for dividends
declared under this program during 2004. We paid annual
dividends of $0.01 per common share, or approximately
$6 million, during 2003 and 2002.

In October 2004, our Board of Directors approved
a new capital allocation program that includes the authorization
of management, at its discretion, to purchase up to
$1.2 billion, net of dividends paid, of common stock each
year during 2005, 2006 and 2007. Additionally, the Board of
Directors announced that it expects dividends to be
$0.20 per share per quarter beginning in 2005. All future
dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of
Directors, and depend on various factors, including our net
earnings, financial condition, cash required for future
prospects and other factors the Board may deem relevant. On
January 28, 2005, the Board declared our first quarterly
dividend under the program of $0.20 per share, which will
be paid on March 24, 2005 to stockholders of record as of
March 1, 2005.

15.

Stock-Based Compensation

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

We have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan under
which an aggregate of 5.25 million shares has been reserved
for issuance since the plan’s adoption in 1997. Under the
Stock Purchase Plan, employees may purchase shares of our common
stock at a discount. The plan provides for two offering periods
for purchases: January through June and July through December.
At the end of each offering period, employees are able to
purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the
lesser of the market value of the stock on the first or last day
of such offering period. The purchases are made through payroll
deductions, and the number of shares that may be purchased is
limited by IRS regulations. The total number of shares issued
under the plan for the offering periods in each of 2004, 2003
and 2002 was approximately 654,000, 597,000 and 612,000,


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

respectively. Including the impact of the January
2005 issuance of shares associated with the July to December
2004 offering period, approximately 840,000 shares remain
available for issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan.

As discussed in Note 23, we are in the
process of assessing the impact of a recently issued accounting
pronouncement on our accounting for share-based payments to
employees. We currently expect our employee stock purchase plan
to result in the recognition of compensation expense beginning
in the third quarter of 2005.

Employee Stock Incentive
    Plans

Pursuant to our stock incentive plan, we have the
ability to issue stock options, stock awards and stock
appreciation rights, all on terms and conditions determined by
the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. The
following is a summary of our stock incentive programs and the
significant terms of the stock options and restricted stock
granted to our officers and other employees during the three
years ended December 31, 2004.

As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, we had
three plans under which we granted stock options and restricted
stock awards: the 1993 Stock Incentive Plan, the 2000 Stock
Incentive Plan and the 2000 Broad-Based Plan. All three plans
allowed for grants of stock options, appreciation rights and
stock awards to key employees, except grants under the 2000
Broad-Based Plan could not be made to any executive officer. All
of the options granted under these plans have exercise prices
equaling the fair market value as of the date of the grant,
expire no later than ten years from the date of grant and vest
ratably over a four or five-year period. The 1993 Stock
Incentive Plan expired in May of 2003.

In May 2004, our stockholders approved the
adoption of the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan. The terms of the 2004
Stock Incentive Plan allowed for all shares available under our
2000 Stock Incentive Plan and our 1996 Non-Employee Director
Plan (discussed below) to become available for issuance under
the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan. Under the 2004 Stock Incentive
Plan, an aggregate of 34 million shares of our common stock
may be issued pursuant to awards granted under the plan.

Through December 31, 2004, we have primarily
issued stock options and restricted stock under our 2004 Stock
Incentive Plan. All stock options that have been issued under
this plan have exercise prices equal to the fair market value of
our common stock as of the date of grant, expire ten years from
the date of grant and vest ratably over a four-year period. The
restricted stock grants also vest ratably over a four-year
period. The shares issued are subject to forfeiture in the event
of termination of employment and entitle the holder to all
benefits of a stockholder, including the right to receive
dividends and vote on all matters put to a vote of security
holders.

In December 2004, our Board of Directors approved
the material terms of awards to be granted in 2005 to selected
participants under our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan. In January
2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
approved grants of restricted stock units and performance share
units to those chosen to participate in our long-term incentive
plan for 2005. Refer to Note 23 for additional information
regarding the significant terms of these share-based awards.

Non-Employee Director Plans

At December 31, 2003 and 2002, we had a 1996
Non-Employee Director Plan that allowed for an automatic annual
grant of options to purchase 10,000 shares of common stock
to each of our non-employee directors. All options granted under
the plan had a one-year vesting period and a term of ten years.
In accordance with the plan, all options granted have an
exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of
grant. Members of our Board of Directors received their annual
grants in 2002. However, the annual grant ceased after 2002 when
we adopted our 2003 Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan.
Under the Deferred


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Compensation Plan, a portion of the cash
compensation that the directors would otherwise receive is
deferred until after their termination from board service and
each director may elect to defer the remaining cash compensation
to a date that he chooses, which must be after termination of
board service. At that time, all deferred compensation is paid
in shares of our common stock. The number of shares the
directors receive is calculated on the date the cash
compensation would have been payable, based on the fair market
value of our common stock on that day.

Other

We have outstanding warrants that we issued to
non-employees for goods and services through 1997 in individual
arrangements. These warrants generally vest over a period of
time, up to five years, and have terms of up to ten years. All
of the warrants have exercise prices equal to the fair market
value of our common stock on the date they were granted.
Additionally, we have outstanding options and warrants that we
acquired in acquisitions. At the time of those acquisitions, the
options and warrants were converted into the right to purchase
shares of our common stock. These options and warrants generally
continue to vest under their original schedules, which range up
to five years, although some vested immediately upon the change
in control related to the acquisition.

We generally issue treasury stock upon exercises
of stock options and warrants. When issuing shares of treasury
stock, the difference between the stock option or warrant
exercise price and the average treasury stock cost is recorded
as an addition to or deduction from additional paid in capital.

The following table summarizes our common stock
option and warrant activity (shares in thousands):

Outstanding and exercisable stock options and
warrants at December 31, 2004, were as follows (shares in
thousands):


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

16.

Earnings Per Share

The following table reconciles income before
cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles as
presented in the consolidated statements of operations with
diluted net income for the purposes of calculating diluted
earnings per common share (in millions):

(a)

The effect of our convertible subordinated notes
    is included in our dilutive earnings per share calculation for
    2002, however it is excluded for 2004 and 2003 since its
    inclusion would be antidilutive.

The following table reconciles the number of
common shares outstanding at December 31 of each year to
the number of weighted average basic common shares outstanding
and the number of weighted average diluted common shares
outstanding for the purposes of calculating basic and diluted
earnings per common share. The table also provides the number of
shares of common stock potentially issuable at the end of each
period and the number of potentially issuable shares excluded
from the diluted earnings per share computation for each period
(shares in millions):

17.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

We have determined the estimated fair value
amounts of our financial instruments using available market
information and commonly accepted valuation methodologies.
However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting
market data to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly,
our estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that
we, or holders of the instruments, could realize in a current
market exchange. The use of different assumptions and/or
estimation methodologies could have a material effect on the
estimated fair values. The fair value estimates are based on
information available to management as of


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

December 31, 2004 and 2003. These amounts
have not been revalued since those dates, and current estimates
of fair value could differ significantly from the amounts
presented.

The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents,
short-term investments, trade accounts receivable, trade
accounts payable, financial instruments included in notes and
other receivables and certain financial instruments included in
other assets or other liabilities are reflected in our
consolidated financial statements at historical cost, which is
materially representative of their fair value principally
because of the short-term maturities of these instruments.

Long-term
investments

— Included as a
component of other assets in our balance sheet at
December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 is
$127 million and $397 million, respectively, of
restricted investments in U.S. government agency debt
securities. At December 31, 2004, we also had approximately
$82 million of restricted investments in equity-based
mutual funds. These investments are recorded at fair value.
Unrealized holding gains and losses on these instruments are
deferred as a component of other comprehensive income in the
equity section of the balance sheet. There has not been a
material difference between the cost basis and fair market value
of these investments in either 2004 or 2003.

Debt and interest rate
derivatives

— At
December 31, 2004 and 2003, the carrying value of our debt
was approximately $8.6 billion and $8.5 billion,
respectively. The carrying value includes adjustments for both
the unamortized fair value adjustments related to terminated
hedge arrangements and fair value adjustments of debt
instruments that are currently hedged. See Note 7. For
active hedge arrangements, the fair value of the derivative is
included in other current assets, other long-term assets,
accrued liabilities or other long-term liabilities, as
appropriate. The estimated fair value of debt at both
December 31, 2004 and 2003 was approximately
$9.2 billion. The estimated fair values of our senior notes
and convertible subordinated notes are based on quoted market
prices. The carrying value of remarketable debt approximates
fair value due to the short-term nature of the attached interest
rates. The fair value of our other debt is estimated using
discounted cash flow analysis, based on rates we would currently
pay for similar types of instruments.

18.

Business Combinations and
    Divestitures

Purchase Acquisitions

We continue to pursue the acquisition of
businesses that are accretive to our NASW operations. During the
year ended December 31, 2004, we completed over 50
acquisitions for a cost, net of cash acquired, of approximately
$130 million. These acquisitions primarily affected our
Eastern, Midwest and Southern groups.

During the year ended December 31, 2003, we
paid $337 million, net of cash acquired, for the
acquisitions of approximately 75 businesses, which are included
within our NASW operations. This included approximately
$85 million in the first quarter of 2003 primarily for our
acquisition of the Peltz Group, the largest privately-held
recycler in the United States whose assets we contributed to our
Recycling Group’s operations known as Recycle America
Alliance. The most significant of the other transactions was the
acquisition of certain collections assets from Allied Waste
Industries, Inc. in the third and fourth quarters of 2003.

Additionally, in 2003 we acquired certain
operations from Bio-Energy Partners, a general partnership in
which we have a 50% ownership interest, for $18 million.
Bio-Energy Partners owns and operates facilities that produce
electrical power from landfill gas that is ultimately sold to
public utilities and other commercial users. Concurrent with
this transaction, we received net cash proceeds from Bio-Energy
Partners of $30 million in exchange for assuming a like
amount of indebtedness of the partnership. We continue to
account for our remaining interests in Bio-Energy Partners as an
equity investment.

As a result of the acquisitions in 2003, we
recorded approximately $458 million in additional assets,
including approximately $154 million of goodwill and
approximately $65 million of other intangible assets. Of


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

this acquired goodwill, approximately
$143 million is deductible for income tax purposes.
Additionally, as a result of these acquisitions we assumed
approximately $117 million of liabilities.

In 2002, we completed over 50 acquisitions of
NASW operations that were accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting for approximately $162 million.

Divestitures

The approximate aggregate sales price for the
divestiture of our non-integrated North American operations was
approximately $39 million in 2004, $18 million in 2003
and $103 million in 2002. These sales were comprised
substantially of cash proceeds. We recognized net gains on these
divestitures of approximately $12 million in 2004,
$13 million in 2003 and $8 million during 2002.

19.

Variable Interest Entities

We have financial interests in various variable
interest entities. Following is a description of all interests
that we consider significant. For purposes of applying
FIN 46, we are considered the primary beneficiary of
certain of these entities. Such entities have been consolidated
into our financial statements as noted below.

Consolidated variable interest
entities

Financial Interest in Surety Bonding
Company

— During the third
quarter of 2003, we issued a $28.6 million letter of credit
to support the debt of a surety bonding company established by
an unrelated third party to issue surety bonds to the waste
industry and other industries. The letter of credit serves to
guarantee the surety bonding company’s obligations
associated with its debt and represents our exposure to loss
associated with our financial interest in the entity.

As of December 31, 2004, approximately
$45 million of current assets, $6 million of long-term
assets, $25 million of current liabilities,
$24 million of long-term debt and $2 million in
minority interest have been included in our consolidated balance
sheet as a result of applying FIN 46 to this variable
interest entity.

Although we are the primary beneficiary of this
variable interest entity, the creditors of the entity do not
have recourse against our general credit and our losses are
limited to our exposure under the guarantee. Consolidation of
this entity did not materially impact our results of operations
during the year ended December 31, 2004 or 2003 nor do we
anticipate that it will materially impact our results of
operations in the foreseeable future. See Note 10 for
additional discussion related to our financial assurance
activities.

Waste-to-Energy
LLCs

— On June 30,
2000, two limited liability companies (“LLCs”) were
established to purchase interests in existing leveraged lease
financings at three waste-to-energy facilities that we operate
under an agreement with the owner. John Hancock Life Insurance
Company (“Hancock”) has a 99.5% ownership interest in
one of the LLCs (“LLC I”), and the second LLC
(“LLC II”) is 99.75% collectively owned by LLC I
and the CIT Group (“CIT”). We own the remaining equity
interest in each LLC. Hancock and CIT made an initial investment
of approximately $167 million in the LLCs. The LLCs used
these proceeds to purchase the three waste-to-energy facilities
that we operate and assumed the seller’s indebtedness
related to these facilities. Under the LLC agreements, the LLCs
shall be dissolved upon the occurrence of any of the following
events: (i) a written decision of all the members of the
LLCs to dissolve, (ii) December 31, 2063,
(iii) the entry of a decree of judicial dissolution under
the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, or (iv) the
LLCs ceasing to own any interest in the waste-to-energy
facilities.

Income, losses and cash flows are allocated to
the members based on their initial capital account balances
until Hancock and CIT achieve targeted returns; thereafter, the
earnings of LLC I will be allocated 20% to Hancock and 80% to us
and the earnings of LLC II will be allocated 20% to Hancock
and CIT and 80% to us. We do not expect Hancock and CIT to
achieve the targeted returns at any time during the initial base
term of


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

the leases. We are required under certain
circumstances to make capital contributions to the LLCs in the
amount of the difference between the stipulated loss amounts and
terminated values under the LLC agreements to the extent they
are different from the underlying lease agreements. We believe
that the likelihood of the occurrence of these circumstances is
remote. Additionally, if we exercise certain renewal options
under the leases, we will be required to make payments to the
LLCs for the difference between fair market rents and the
scheduled renewal rents, if any.

As of December 31, 2004, our consolidated
balance sheet includes approximately $389 million of net
property and equipment associated with the LLCs’
waste-to-energy facilities and $130 million of debt
associated with the financing of the facilities.

Trusts for Closure, Post-Closure or
Environmental Remediation
Obligations

— We have
determined that we are the primary beneficiary of trust funds
that were created to settle certain of our closure, post-closure
or environmental remediation obligations. As the trust funds are
expected to continue to meet the statutory requirements for
which they were established, we do not believe that there is any
material exposure to loss associated with the trusts. The
consolidation of these variable interest entities has not
materially affected our financial position or results of
operations in 2004.

Significant unconsolidated variable interest
entities

Investments in Coal-Based Synthetic Fuel
Production Facilities

— As
discussed in Note 8, we own an interest in two coal-based
synthetic fuel production facilities. Along with the other
equity investors, we support the operations of the entities in
exchange for a pro-rata share of the tax credits generated by
the facilities. Our obligation to support the facilities’
future operations is, therefore, limited to the tax benefit we
expect to receive. We are not the primary beneficiary of either
of these entities, and we do not believe that we have any
material exposure to loss, as measured under the provisions of
FIN 46, as a result of our investments. As such, we account
for these investments under the equity method of accounting and
do not consolidate the facilities.

20.

Segment and Related Information

We manage and evaluate our operations primarily
through our Eastern, Midwest, Southern, Western, Canadian,
Wheelabrator and Recycling Groups. These seven operating Groups
are presented below as our reportable segments. These reportable
segments, when combined with certain other operations not
managed through the seven operating Groups, comprise our North
American Solid Waste, or NASW, operations. NASW, our core
business, provides integrated waste management services
consisting of collection, disposal (solid waste and hazardous
waste landfills), transfer, waste-to-energy facilities and
independent power production plants that are managed by
Wheelabrator, recycling services and other services to
commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers
throughout the United States and in Puerto Rico and Canada. The
operations not managed through our seven operating Groups are
presented herein as “Other NASW.”

Early in the third quarter of 2004, we
implemented a market realignment that consisted of moving our
Ohio operations to the Midwest Group and our Kentucky operations
to the Southern Group, both of which were previously in the
Eastern Group. We believe that the realignment will provide
benefits to each of the operating groups affected. Specifically,
the Ohio Market Area faces many of the same issues as other
industrial regions in the Midwest Group and the Kentucky Market
Area’s rural characteristics make it similar to other
markets in the Southern Group. Further, we believe that reducing
the revenues of the Eastern Group will enable its leadership
team to focus on the challenges associated with the Northeast
corridor. As a result of the realignment, we have reclassified
the operating results of the Ohio and Kentucky Market Areas for
all periods presented to provide segment financial information
that appropriately reflects our approach to managing operations.
Prior period information has also been reclassified to reflect
our change in accounting for certain mandatory fees and taxes,
as described in Note 2.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Summarized financial information concerning our
reportable segments for the respective years ended
December 31 is shown in the following table (in millions).


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(g)

Goodwill is included in total assets. Refer to
    Note 2 for information associated with the deferred tax
    adjustment made in 2004. This table reflects the impact of that
    adjustment by reportable segment. The reconciliation of changes
    in goodwill during 2004 and 2003 by reportable segment is as
    follows (in millions):

(h)

As discussed in Note 2, we identified
    certain cash accounts with negative balances and no legal right
    of offset that had been included in cash and cash equivalents on
    our balance sheet in prior periods. Prior period information has
    been restated to reflect this adjustment.

The table below shows the total revenues by
principal lines of business (in millions).


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Property and equipment (net) relating to
operations in the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as
Canada are as follows (in millions).

21.

Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Historically, our quarterly operating results
have fluctuated. The fluctuations may be caused by many factors,
including period-to-period changes in the relative contribution
of revenue by each line of business and operating segment and
general economic conditions. Our revenues and income from
operations typically reflect seasonal patterns. Our operating
revenues tend to be somewhat higher in the summer months,
primarily due to the higher volume of construction and
demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and residential
waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase
during the summer months. Our second and third quarter revenues
and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal
trends. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions
that tend to occur during the summer, such as the hurricanes
experienced during the third quarter of 2004, actually increase
our revenues in the areas affected, although, for several
reasons, including significant start-up costs, such revenues
tend to be low margin. Conversely, harsh winter weather
conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our
operations, which can significantly affect the operating results
of those periods. The operating results of our first quarter
also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses
because we rely on the slower winter months for scheduled
maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities.

The following table summarizes the unaudited
quarterly results of operations for 2004 and 2003 (in millions,
except per share amounts):


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Basic and diluted earnings per common share for
each of the quarters presented above is based on the respective
weighted average number of common and dilutive potential common
shares outstanding for each quarter and the sum of the quarters
may not necessarily be equal to the full year basic and diluted
earnings per common share amounts. For certain quarters
presented, the effect of our convertible subordinated notes are
excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculations since
inclusion of these items would be antidilutive for those periods.

22.

Condensed Consolidating Financial
    Statements

WM Holdings has fully and unconditionally
guaranteed WMI’s senior indebtedness. WMI has fully and
unconditionally guaranteed all of WM Holding’s senior
indebtedness and its 5.75% convertible subordinated notes
that matured and were repaid in January 2005. None of WMI’s
other subsidiaries have guaranteed any of WMI’s or
WM Holdings’ debt. As a result of these guarantee
arrangements, we are required to present the following condensed
consolidating financial information (in millions).


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE
SHEETS

December 31, 2004

December 31, 2003


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

23.

New Accounting Pronouncements
    (Unaudited)

In December 2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004),

Share-Based
Payment,

(“SFAS No. 123(R)”), which
amends SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,

and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.

SFAS No. 123(R) requires compensation expense to be
recognized for all share-based payments made to employees based
on the fair value of the award at the date of grant, eliminating
the intrinsic value alternative allowed by
SFAS No. 123. Generally, the approach to determining
fair value under the original pronouncement has not changed.
However, there are revisions to the accounting guidelines
established, such as accounting for forfeitures, that will
change our accounting for stock-based awards in the future.

SFAS No. 123(R) must be adopted in the
first interim or annual period beginning after June 15,
2005. The statement allows companies to adopt its provisions
using either of the following transition alternatives:

(i) The modified prospective method, which
    results in the recognition of compensation expense using
    SFAS 123(R) for all share-based awards granted after the
    effective date and the recognition of compensation expense using
    SFAS 123 for all previously granted share-based awards that
    remain unvested at the effective date; or

(ii) The modified retrospective method,
    which results in applying the modified prospective method and
    restating prior periods by recognizing the financial statement
    impact of share-based payments in a manner consistent with the
    pro forma disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. The
    modified retrospective method may be applied to all prior
    periods presented or previously reported interim periods of the
    year of adoption.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

We currently plan to adopt
SFAS No. 123(R) on July 1, 2005 using the
modified prospective method. This change in accounting is not
expected to materially impact our financial position. However,
because we currently account for share-based payments to our
employees using the intrinsic value method, our results of
operations have not included the recognition of compensation
expense for the issuance of stock option awards. Had we applied
the fair-value criteria established by SFAS No. 123(R)
to previous stock option grants, the impact to our results of
operations would have approximated the impact of applying
SFAS No. 123, which was a reduction to net income of
approximately $57 million in 2004, $68 million in 2003
and $85 million in 2002. The impact of applying
SFAS No. 123 to previous stock option grants is
further summarized in Note 3. We currently expect the
recognition of compensation expense for stock options issued and
outstanding at December 31, 2004 to reduce our
2005 net income by approximately $20 million.

SFAS No. 123(R) also requires the
benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation
cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an
operating cash flow as required under current literature. This
requirement will reduce our net operating cash inflows and
increase our net financing cash flows in periods after adoption.
Excess tax benefits included as a component of operating cash
inflows in 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $37 million,
$9 million and $7 million, respectively. The impact
that this change in reporting will have on future periods cannot
be determined at this time because the benefit recognized is
dependent upon attributes that vary for each option exercise.

Additionally, as a result of both the changes in
accounting for share-based payments and a desire to design our
long-term incentive plans in a manner that creates a stronger
link to operating and market performance, our Board of Directors
has approved a substantial change in the form of awards to be
made in 2005. In January 2005, we granted approximately 715,000
restricted stock units and approximately 765,000 performance
share units to selected participants under our 2004 Stock
Incentive Plan. The restricted stock units will vest ratably
over a four-year period. Compensation expense associated with
these restricted stock units will be recognized on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period. The performance
share units will be paid in shares of common stock on the third
anniversary of the date of grant. The number of common shares
issued upon the vesting of the performance share units will be
proportional to the percentage of the target performance
criteria achieved. Compensation expense associated with these
performance share units will be recognized ratably over the
vesting period based on our expectations for achieving the
defined performance criteria. We do not currently plan to make
stock option awards a material component of our long-term
incentive plan in the future.

24.

Subsequent Event

During January of 2005, we sold one of our
landfills located in Ontario, Canada. As of December 31,
2004, the net assets associated with this landfill are
classified as held for sale and are included as other current
assets in our balance sheet. The divestiture was required by a
Divestiture Order from the Canadian Competition Tribunal.
Proceeds from the divestiture were approximately
$89 million. We realized a net of tax gain of approximately
$29 million as a result of this divestiture.


Item
9.

Changes in and Disagreements
with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures.

Effectiveness of Controls and
    Procedures

We maintain a set of disclosure controls and
procedures designed to ensure that information we are required
to disclose in reports that we file or submit with the SEC is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified by the SEC. An evaluation was carried out
under the supervision and with the participation of the
Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer
(“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”),
of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures
as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
that evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective
to ensure that we are able to collect, process and disclose the
information we are required to disclose in the reports we file
with the SEC within required time periods.

Internal Controls Over Financial
    Reporting

Management’s report on our internal controls
over financial reporting can be found in Item 8 of this
report. The Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm’s
attestation report on management’s assessment of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
can also be found in Item 8 of this report.

Item 9B.

Other
Information

None.

PART III

Item
10.

Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant.

The information required by this Item with
respect to directors, executive officers and section 16
reporting is incorporated by reference to “Election of
Directors,” “Executive Officers,” and
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting” in
the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its 2005
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be held May 13, 2005.

We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to
our CEO, CFO and Chief Accounting Officer, as well as other
officers, directors and employees of the Company. The code of
ethics, entitled “Code of Conduct,” is posted on our
website at http://www.wm.com under the caption “Ethics and
Diversity.”

Item 11.

Executive Compensation.

The information required by this Item is set
forth under the caption “Executive Compensation” in
the 2005 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters.

The information relating to the security
ownership of certain beneficial owners required by this Item is
incorporated by reference to “Director and Officer Stock
Ownership” in the 2005 Proxy Statement.


The following table provides information as of
December 31, 2004 about the number of shares to be issued
upon vesting or exercise of equity awards, including options,
warrants and deferred stock units, as well as the number of
shares remaining available for issuance under our equity
compensation plan.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions.

The information required by this Item is set
forth under the caption “Related Party Transactions”
in the 2005 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and
    Services.

The information required by this Item is set
forth under the caption “Principal Accounting Fees and
Services” in the 2005 Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules

(a)(1)

Consolidated Financial Statements:

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
Equity for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(a)(2)

Consolidated Financial Statement
    Schedules:

Schedule II — Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules have been omitted because the
required information is not significant or is included in the
financial statements or notes thereto, or is not applicable.

(b)

Exhibits:


*

In the case of incorporation by reference to
    documents filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
    Company’s file number under that Act is 1-12154.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

By:

/s/ DAVID P. STEINER

David P. Steiner

Chief Executive Officer and Director

Date: February 17, 2005

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Waste Management, Inc.

We have audited the consolidated financial
statements of Waste Management, Inc. (the “Company”)
as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2004, and have
issued our report thereon dated February 16, 2005 (included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K). Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of
this Form 10-K. This schedule is the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits.

In our opinion, the financial statement schedule
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.

Houston, Texas

February 16, 2005

WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(In millions)

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

*

In the case of incorporation by reference to
    documents filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
    Company’s file number under that Act is 1-12154.