10-K


h12380e10vk.htm

WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.- DECEMBER 31, 2003

e10vk

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Commission file number 1-12154

Waste Management, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code: (713) 512-6200

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

5.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulations S-K
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Securities Exchange Act of
1934).     Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of the voting stock
held by non-affiliates of the registrant at June 30, 2003,
was approximately $14.1 billion. The aggregate market value
was computed by using the closing price of the common stock as
of that date on the New York Stock Exchange
(“NYSE”). (For purposes of calculating this amount
only, all directors and executive officers of the registrant
have been treated as affiliates.)

The number of shares of Common Stock,
$0.01 par value, of the registrant outstanding at
February 12, 2004 was 576,872,627 (excluding treasury
shares of 53,409,834).

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


PART I

Item 1.

Business.

General

The financial statements in this report represent
the consolidation of Waste Management, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, its majority-owned subsidiaries and entities
required to be consolidated pursuant to the Financial Accounting
Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Interpretation
No. 46,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

(“FIN 46”). Waste Management, Inc. is a holding
company that conducts all of its operations through its
subsidiaries. The terms “the Company,” “we,”
“us” or “our” refer to Waste Management,
Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

We are the leading provider of integrated waste
services in North America. Through our subsidiaries we provide
collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and
disposal services. We are also a leading developer, operator and
owner of waste-to-energy facilities in the United States. Our
customers include commercial, industrial, municipal and
residential customers, other waste management companies,
electric utilities and governmental entities. During 2003, none
of our customers accounted for more than 1% of our operating
revenue. We employed approximately 51,700 people as of
December 31, 2003.

Our parent company was incorporated in Oklahoma
in 1987 under the name “USA Waste Services, Inc.” and
was reincorporated as a Delaware company in 1995. In a 1998
merger, Waste Management, Inc. became a 100% owned subsidiary
and changed its name to Waste Management Holdings, Inc. At the
same time, our parent company changed its name to Waste
Management, Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at
1001 Fannin Street, Suite 4000, Houston, Texas 77002. Our
telephone number at that address is (713) 512-6200. Our
website address is http://www.wm.com. Our annual reports on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current
reports on Form 8-K are all available, free of charge, on
our website as soon as practicable after we file the reports
with the SEC. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol “WMI.”

Strategy

Our goals are operational excellence and
financial strength, which we seek by concentrating on
(i) providing excellent customer service,
(ii) lowering costs, (iii) increasing cash flow and
(iv) maintaining our credit ratings at investment grade. We
focus and continue to make progress on the following key
initiatives:


credit rating agencies, surety companies and
    regulators to ensure adequate access to a variety of capital
    markets and funding sources.

Operations

General

We manage and evaluate our operations through
seven operating Groups, five of which are organized by
geographic area and the other two of which are organized by
function. The geographic Groups include our Eastern, Midwest,
Southern, Western and Canadian Groups, and our two functional
Groups are the Recycling and Wheelabrator Groups. In 2002, we
reorganized our operations to form market areas within the
geographic Groups that are responsible for the sales, marketing
and delivery of our services. We believe that this structure,
which resulted in the elimination of one layer of field
operations and two layers of administrative and support staff,
better aligns our collection, transport, recycling and disposal
resources. Additionally, we believe that the geographic
structure results in a better use of our resources and more
efficient service to our customers. We manage and evaluate our
business through the seven Groups, which represent our
reportable segments.

These reportable segments, when combined with
certain other operations not managed through any of the seven
Groups, comprise our North American Solid Waste, or NASW,
operations. NASW, our core business, provides integrated waste
management services consisting of collection, disposal (solid
and hazardous waste landfills), transfer, waste-to-energy
facilities and independent power production plants that are
managed by Wheelabrator, and recycling and other miscellaneous
services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential
customers throughout the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada.
The operations not managed through our seven Groups, which
include methane gas recovery, rentals, in-plant services and
other miscellaneous services, are presented in this report as
“Other NASW.”

Until December 31, 2001 our operations
included waste management operations in Mexico and certain
countries outside of North America and until March 31, 2002
included non-solid waste operations. These divested operations
are presented in this report as “Other.” Although we
no longer hold any revenue generating assets related to the
Other operations, we continue to incur minimal administrative
expenses in connection with these divested operations.


The table below shows the total revenues (in
millions) contributed annually by each of our reportable
segments in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003.
The 2002 and 2001 information has been restated to conform to
the current year presentation, which includes our newly formed
Recycling Group. More information about our results of
operations by reportable segment is included in Note 20 to
the consolidated financial statements and in the

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

included in this report.

NASW

The services provided by our NASW segments
include collection, landfill (solid and hazardous waste
landfills), transfer, Wheelabrator (waste-to-energy facilities
and independent power production plants), and recycling and
other services, as described below. The following table shows
revenues (in millions) contributed by these services for each of
the three years indicated.

Collection.

Our
commitment to customers begins with a vast waste collection
network. Collection involves picking up and transporting waste
from where it was generated to a transfer station or disposal
site. We generally provide collection services under two types
of arrangements:

•

For commercial and industrial collection
    services, generally we have a one to three-year service
    agreement. The fees under the agreements are influenced by
    factors such as collection frequency, type of collection
    equipment furnished by us, type and volume or weight of the
    waste collected, distance to the disposal facility, labor costs,
    cost of disposal and general market factors. As part of the
    service, we provide steel containers to most of our customers to
    store their solid waste between pick-up dates. Containers vary
    in size and type according to the needs of our customers or
    restrictions of their communities and are designed so that they
    can be lifted mechanically and either emptied into a truck’s


compaction hopper or directly into a disposal
    site. By using these containers, we can service most of our
    commercial and industrial customers with trucks operated by only
    one employee.

•

For most residential collection services, we have
    a contract with, or a franchise granted by, a municipality or
    regional authority that gives us the exclusive right to service
    all or a portion of the homes in an area. These contracts or
    franchises are typically for one to five years, but can
    sometimes be longer. We also provide services under individual
    monthly subscriptions directly to households. The fees for
    residential collection are either paid by the municipality or
    authority from their tax revenues or service charges, or are
    paid directly by the residents receiving the service.

Landfill.

Landfills
are the main depository for solid waste in North America and we
have the largest network of landfills in North America. Solid
waste landfills are built and operated on land with geological
and hydrological properties that limit the possibility of water
pollution, and are operated under prescribed procedures. A
landfill must be maintained to meet federal, state or provincial
and local regulations. The operation and closure of a solid
waste landfill includes excavation, construction of liners,
continuous spreading and compacting of waste, covering of waste
with earth or other inert material and constructing final
capping of the landfill. These operations are carefully planned
to maintain sanitary conditions, to maximize the use of the
airspace and to prepare the site so it can ultimately be used
for other purposes.

All solid waste management companies must have
access to a disposal facility, such as a solid waste landfill.
We believe it is usually preferable for our collection
operations to use disposal facilities that we own or operate,
which we refer to as internalization, rather than using third
party disposal facilities. Internalization generally allows us
to realize higher consolidated margins and stronger operating
cash flows. The fees charged at disposal facilities, which are
referred to as tipping fees, are based on market factors and the
type and weight or volume of solid waste deposited.

We also operate secure hazardous waste landfills
in the United States. Under federal environmental laws, all
hazardous waste landfills must be permitted by the federal
government. All of our hazardous waste landfills have obtained
the required permits although some can accept only certain types
of hazardous waste. These landfills must also comply with
specialized operating standards. Only hazardous waste in a
stable, solid form, which meets regulatory requirements, can be
deposited in our secure disposal cells. In some cases, hazardous
waste can be treated before disposal. Generally, these
treatments involve the separation or removal of solid materials
from liquids and chemical treatments that transform wastes into
inert materials that are no longer hazardous. Our hazardous
waste landfills are sited, constructed and operated in a manner
designed to provide long-term containment of waste. We also
operate a hazardous waste facility at which we isolate treated
hazardous wastes in liquid form by injection into deep wells
that have been drilled in rock formations far below the base of
fresh water to a point that is separated by other substantial
geological confining layers.

We owned or operated 284 solid waste and five
hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2003 compared
with 288 solid waste landfills and five hazardous waste
landfills at December 31, 2002. The landfills that we
operate but do not own are generally operated under a lease
agreement or an operating contract. The differences between the
two arrangements usually relate to the owner of the landfill
operating permit. Generally, with a lease agreement, the permit
is in our name and we operate the landfill for its entire life
and make payments to the lessor, who is generally a private
landowner, based either on a percentage of revenue or a rate per
ton of waste received. We are generally responsible for closure
and post-closure requirements under our lease agreements. For
operating contracts, the owner of the property, generally a
municipality, usually owns the permit and we operate the
landfill for a contracted term, which may be the life of the
landfill. The property owner is generally responsible for
closure and post-closure obligations under our operating
contracts.

Based on remaining permitted capacity as of
December 31, 2003 and projected annual disposal volumes,
the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our
owned or operated landfills is approximately 26 years. Many
of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal
capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the
availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our
landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given
landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices,
remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion. We
are currently seeking expansion permits at 84 of our landfills
for which we consider expansions to be probable. Although no
assurances can be made that all future expansions


will be permitted as designed, the weighted
average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated
landfills is approximately 36 years when considering
remaining permitted capacity, probable expansion capacity and
projected annual disposal volume. At December 31, 2003 and
2002, the expected remaining capacity in cubic yards and tonnage
of waste that can be accepted at our owned or operated landfills
is shown below (in millions):

The following table reflects landfill capacity
and airspace changes, as measured in tons of waste, for
landfills owned or operated by us during the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002 (in millions):

The estimated operating lives, based on remaining
permitted and probable expansion capacity and projected annual
disposal volume (in years) as of December 31, 2003, is as
follows:


The volume of waste, as measured in tons, that we
received in 2003 and 2002 at all of our landfills is shown below
(tons in thousands):

When a landfill we own or operate
(i) reaches its permitted waste capacity, (ii) is
permanently capped and (iii) receives certification of
closure from the applicable regulatory agency, management of the
site, including any remediation activities, is generally
transferred to our closed sites management group. At
December 31, 2003, we manage 173 closed landfills,
most of which are managed by our closed sites management group.

Transfer.

Transfer
stations are located near residential and commercial collection
routes where collection trucks take the solid waste that has
been collected. The solid waste is then consolidated and
transported by transfer trucks or by rail to disposal sites.
Fees at transfer stations are usually based on the type and
volume or weight of the waste transferred, the distance to the
disposal site and general market factors. At December 31,
2003, we owned or operated 366 transfer stations in North
America. There are two main reasons for using transfer stations:

•

Transfer stations reduce the cost of transporting
    waste to disposal sites because transfer trucks, railcars or
    rail containers have larger capacities than collection trucks,
    allowing us to deliver more waste to the disposal facility in
    each trip. Waste is also often compacted at transfer stations,
    which in addition to the consolidation of the waste, increases
    the efficiency of our collection personnel and equipment because
    they are able to focus on collection activities rather than
    making trips to the disposal sites.

•

Transfer stations improve internalization by
    allowing us to retain fees that we would otherwise pay to third
    parties to dispose of waste we collect. A greater percentage of
    the waste we collect can be disposed of at one of our own
    disposal sites because the waste coming into one of our transfer
    stations will usually be taken to one of our own disposal
    facilities. Additionally, more waste is internalized because the
    transfer vehicles can transport waste longer distances to one of
    our disposal facilities.

The transfer stations that we operate but do not
own are generally operated through lease agreements under which
we lease property from third parties. There are some instances
where transfer stations are operated under contract, generally
for municipalities. In most cases we own the permits and will be
responsible for all of the regulatory requirements in accordance
with the lease and operating agreement terms.

Wheelabrator.

Through Wheelabrator, we own or
operate 17 waste-to-energy facilities that accept solid waste
for disposal. Fees at our waste-to-energy facilities are
influenced by the market rates for electricity, type and volume
of waste received and other general market factors. Our
waste-to-energy facilities are capable of processing up to
24,250 tons of solid waste each day. In 2003, our
waste-to-energy facilities received


approximately 7.7 million total tons, or
approximately 21,200 tons per day, compared to approximately
7.5 million total tons, or approximately 20,700 tons per
day, in 2002. The solid waste is burned at high temperatures in
specially designed boilers at these facilities, producing heat
that is converted into high-pressure steam. We use that steam to
generate electricity for sale to electric utilities under
long-term contracts. Our waste-to-energy facilities can generate
up to an aggregate of 690 megawatts (“mW”) of
renewable electricity per hour.

Our Wheelabrator operations also include six
independent power production plants that convert various waste
and conventional fuels into electricity and steam. Fees at our
independent power production plants are influenced by the market
rates for electricity and steam, type and volume of waste
received and other general market factors. The plants burn wood
waste, anthracite coal waste (culm), tires, landfill gas and
natural gas. These facilities are integral to the solid waste
industry, disposing of urban wood, waste tires, railroad ties
and utility poles. Our anthracite culm facility in Pennsylvania
processes the waste materials left over from coal mining
operations from over half a century ago. Ash remaining after
burning the culm piles at the facility is used to reclaim the
land damaged by decades of coal mining. In addition to
electricity production, the plants also produce steam, which is
sold to industrial and commercial users. The plants can produce
a total of 246 mW of electricity per hour.

Recycling.

Our
Recycling Group is comprised of Recycle America Alliance, L.L.C.
(“RAA”). RAA was formed in January 2003 to improve the
sustainability and future growth of recycling programs and
includes certain recycling assets transferred from our
geographic operating Groups as well as assets contributed by the
Peltz Group, who maintains approximately nine percent of the
equity interest in RAA. In addition to our Recycling Group, our
five geographic operating Groups provide certain recycling
services. The recycling services provided by other than RAA are
generally those which are embedded within the Groups’ other
operations and therefore were not transferred to RAA.

Recycling involves the separation of reusable
materials from the waste stream for processing and resale or
other disposition. Our recycling operations include the
following:

Recycling fees are influenced by frequency of
collection, type and volume or weight of the recyclable
material, degree of processing required, the market value of the
recovered material and other market factors.

Other NASW.

We
develop, operate and promote projects for the beneficial use of
landfill gas through our Waste Management Renewable Energy
Program. The natural breakdown of waste deposited in a landfill


produces landfill gas. The methane component of
the landfill gas is a readily available, renewable energy source
that can be gathered and used beneficially as an alternative to
fossil fuel for a number of industrial and commercial
applications. We actively pursue landfill gas beneficial use
projects and at December 31, 2003 are producing commercial
quantities of methane gas at 85 of our solid waste landfills.
For 54 of these landfills, the processed gas is delivered to
electricity generators. The electricity is then sold to public
utilities, municipal utilities or power cooperatives. For 29
landfills, the gas is delivered by pipeline to industrial
customers as a direct substitute for fossil fuels in industrial
processes such as steam boilers, cement kilns and utility
plants. At the remaining two landfills, we further process the
gas to pipeline-quality natural gas, and then we sell it to
natural gas suppliers.

In addition, as part of our other operations, we
rent and service portable restroom facilities to municipalities
and commercial customers under the name Port-O-Let®, and
provide street and parking lot sweeping services. We also
provide in-plant services, in which we outsource our employees
to provide full service waste management to customers at their
plants. Our vertically integrated waste management operations
allow us to provide these customers with full management of
their waste, including finding recycling opportunities,
minimizing their waste, determining the most efficient means
available for waste collection and transporting and disposing of
their waste.

Competition

The solid waste industry is very competitive.
Competition comes from a number of publicly-held solid waste
companies, private solid waste companies, and large commercial
and industrial companies handling their own waste collection or
disposal operations. We also have competition from
municipalities and regional government authorities with respect
to residential and commercial solid waste collection and solid
waste landfills. The municipalities and regional governmental
authorities can subsidize the cost of service through the use of
tax revenues and tax-exempt financing and therefore have a
competitive advantage.

Operating costs, disposal costs and collection
fees vary widely throughout the geographic areas in which we
operate. The prices that we charge are determined locally, and
typically vary by the volume and weight, type of waste
collected, treatment requirements, risk of handling or disposal,
frequency of collections, distance to final disposal sites,
labor costs and amount and type of equipment furnished to the
customer. We face intense competition based on quality of
service and pricing. Under certain customer service contracts,
our ability to pass on cost increases to our customers may be
limited. From time to time, competitors may reduce the price of
their services and accept lower margins in an effort to expand
or maintain market share or to successfully obtain competitively
bid contracts.

Employees

At December 31, 2003 we had approximately
51,700 full-time employees, of which approximately 8,000
were employed in administrative and sales positions and the
balance in operations. Approximately 14,800 of our employees are
covered by collective bargaining agreements that we negotiate
with unions. We have not experienced a significant work
stoppage, and management considers its employee relations to be
good.

Financial Assurance and Insurance
Obligations

Financial Assurance

Financial assurance is generally required in
municipal and governmental waste management contracts. It is
also a requirement for obtaining or retaining disposal site or
transfer station operating permits. Municipal and governmental
waste management contracts typically require performance bonds
or bank letters of credit to secure performance. We are also
required to provide various forms of financial assurance for
estimated closure, post-closure and remedial obligations at our
landfills.


We establish financial assurance in different
ways, depending on the jurisdiction, including escrow-type
accounts funded by revenues during the operational life of a
facility, letters of credit, surety bonds, trust agreements and
insurance. Although the supply of financial assurance
instruments has become increasingly limited in recent years, we
have not experienced an unmanageable difficulty in obtaining the
financial assurance instruments required for our current
operations. The following table summarizes the various forms and
dollar amounts (in millions) of financial assurance that we had
outstanding as of December 31, 2003:


The restricted funds held in our trust funds and
escrow accounts may be drawn and used to meet the closure,
post-closure and remedial obligations for which the trust and
escrow agreements were established. Other than these permitted
draws on funds, virtually no claims have been made against our
financial assurance instruments in the past, and considering our
current financial position, management does not expect that
these instruments will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial statements. In an ongoing effort to
mitigate the risks of future cost increases and reductions in
available capacity, we are continually evaluating various
options to access cost-effective sources of financial assurance.

Insurance

We also carry a broad range of insurance
coverages, including general liability, automobile liability,
real and personal property, workers’ compensation,
directors’ and officers’ liability, pollution legal
liability, and other coverages we believe are customary to the
industry. Our exposure to loss for insurance claims is generally
limited to the per incident deductible under the related
insurance policy. Our workers compensation, auto and general
liability insurance programs have per incident deductibles of
$750,000, $20,000 and $2 million, respectively. Except as
discussed in Notes 4 and 10 to the consolidated financial
statements, we do not expect the impact of any known casualty,
property, environmental or other contingency to be material to
our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Regulation

Our business is subject to extensive and evolving
federal, state or provincial and local environmental, health,
safety, and transportation laws and regulations. These laws and
regulations are administered by the Environmental Protection
Agency and various other federal, state and local environmental,
zoning, transportation, land use, health, and safety agencies in
the United States and various agencies in Canada. Many of these
agencies regularly examine our operations to monitor compliance
with these laws and regulations and have the power to enforce
compliance, obtain injunctions or impose civil or criminal
penalties in case of violations.

Because the major component of our business is
the collection and disposal of solid waste in an environmentally
sound manner, a significant amount of our capital expenditures
is related, either directly or indirectly, to environmental
protection measures, including compliance with federal, state or
provincial and local provisions that regulate the discharge of
materials into the environment. There are costs associated with
siting, design, operations, monitoring, site maintenance,
corrective actions, financial assurance, and facility closure
and post-closure obligations. In connection with our
acquisition, development or expansion of a disposal facility or
transfer station, we must often spend considerable time, effort
and money to obtain or maintain necessary required permits and
approvals. There cannot be any assurances that we will be able
to obtain or maintain necessary governmental approvals. Once
obtained, operating permits are subject to modification and
revocation by the issuing agency. Compliance with these and any
future regulatory requirements could require us to make
significant capital and operating expenditures. However, most of
these expenditures are made in the normal course of business and
do not place us at any competitive disadvantage.

The primary United States federal statutes
affecting our business are summarized below:

•

The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of
    1976, as amended (“RCRA”), regulates handling,
    transporting and disposing of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes
    and delegates authority to states to develop programs to ensure
    the safe disposal of solid wastes. In 1991, the EPA issued its
    final regulations under Subtitle D of RCRA, which set forth
    minimum federal performance and design criteria for solid waste
    landfills. These regulations must be implemented by the states,
    although states can impose requirements that are more stringent
    than the Subtitle D standards. We incur costs in complying
    with these standards in the ordinary course of our operations.

•

The Comprehensive Environmental Response,
    Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, which is
    also known as Superfund (“CERCLA”), provides for
    federal authority to respond directly to releases or threatened
    releases of hazardous substances into the environment.
    CERCLA’s primary means for avoiding such releases is to
    impose liability for cleanup of disposal sites on current and
    former owners and operators, generators of the waste and
    transporters who select the disposal site.


There are also various state or provincial and
local regulations that affect our operations. Sometimes
states’ regulations are more strict than comparable federal
laws and regulations. Additionally, our collection and landfill
operations could be affected by the trend toward requiring the
development of waste reduction and recycling programs, and
legislative and regulatory measures requiring or encouraging
waste reduction at the source and waste recycling.

Various states have enacted, or are considering
enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of
solid waste generated outside the state. While laws that overtly
discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be
unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory
have been upheld in court. Additionally, certain state and local
governments have enacted “flow control” regulations,
which attempt to require that all waste generated within the
state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. In
1994, the United States Supreme Court ruled that a flow control
ordinance was unconstitutional. However, other courts have
refused to apply the Supreme Court precedent in various
circumstances. In addition, from time to time, the United States
Congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt
regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of
out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. These congressional
efforts have to date been unsuccessful. The United States
Congress’ adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on
interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction
waste or certain types of flow control, the adoption of
legislation affecting interstate transportation of waste at the
state level, or the courts’ interpretation or validation of
flow control legislation could adversely affect our solid waste
management services.

Many states, provinces and local jurisdictions
have enacted “fitness” laws that allow the agencies
that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits
to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the
applicant or permit holder’s compliance history. Some
states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further


and consider the compliance history of the
parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the
applicant or permit holder. These laws authorize the agencies to
make determinations of an applicant or permit holder’s
fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or
revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there
is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been
rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies
and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with
applicable laws and regulations.

See Note 4 to the consolidated financial
statements for disclosures relating to our current assessments
of the impact of regulations on our current and future
operations.

Factors Influencing Future Results and
Accuracy of Forward-Looking Statements

When we make statements containing projections
about our accounting and finances, plans and objectives for the
future, future economic performance, or when we make statements
containing any other projections or estimates about our
assumptions relating to these types of statements, we are making
forward-looking statements. These statements usually relate to
future events and anticipated revenues, earnings or other
aspects of our operations or operating results. We make these
statements in an effort to keep stockholders and the public
informed about our business and have based them on our current
expectations about future events. You should view such
statements with caution. These statements are not guarantees of
future performance or events. All phases of our business are
subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of
which we have no control over. Any of these factors, either
alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on
us and could change whether any forward-looking statement
ultimately turns out to be true. Additionally, we assume no
obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result
of future events or developments.

Outlined below are some of the risks that we face
and that could affect our business and financial position for
2004 and beyond. However, they are not the only risks that we
face. There may be additional risks that we do not presently
know of or that we currently believe are immaterial which could
also impair our business and financial position.

We could be liable for environmental
    damages resulting from our operations

We could be liable if our operations cause
environmental damage to our properties or to the property of
other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination
of drinking water sources or soil. Under current law, we could
even be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed
before we acquired the assets or operations involved. Also, we
could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal
or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental
contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements
and under applicable law we are treated as a successor to the
prior owner. Any substantial liability for environmental damage
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows. In the ordinary course of
our business, we have in the past, and may in the future, become
involved in a variety of legal and administrative proceedings
relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations.
These include proceedings in which:

•

agencies of federal, state, local or foreign
    governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable
    statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for
    violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we
    need; and

•

local communities and citizen groups, adjacent
    landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a
    permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits
    under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are
    subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental
    damage.

The adverse outcome of one or more of these
proceedings could result in, among other things, material
increases in our liabilities.

From time to time, we have received citations or
notices from governmental authorities that our operations are
not in compliance with our permits or certain environmental or
land use laws and regulations. In the future we may receive
additional citations or notices. We generally seek to work with
the authorities to


resolve the issues raised by these citations or
notices. If we are not successful in these resolutions, we may
incur fines, penalties or other sanctions that could result in
material unanticipated costs or liabilities.

The amount of insurance required to be maintained
for environmental liability is governed by statutory
requirements. We believe that the cost for such insurance is
high relative to the coverage it would provide, and therefore,
our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum
statutorily required levels. We face the risk of incurring
liabilities for environmental damage if our insurance coverage
is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages.

In addition, to fulfill our financial assurance
obligations with respect to environmental closure and
post-closure liabilities, we generally obtain letters of credit
or surety bonds, or rely on insurance, including captive
insurance. We currently have in place all necessary financial
assurance instruments but are aware of recent decreases in the
availability and increases in the cost of financial assurance.
We do not anticipate any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining
financial assurance instruments in the future. However, in the
event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters
of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost,
or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as
adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of
financial assurance. These types of financial assurance could be
more expensive to obtain, which could negatively impact our
liquidity and capital resources and our ability to meet our
obligations as they become due.

Governmental regulations or levies may
    restrict our operations or increase our costs of
    operations

Stringent government regulations at the federal,
state, provincial, and local level in the United States and
Canada have a substantial impact on our business. A large number
of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern
environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning,
transportation and related matters. Among other things, they may
restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing
conditions such as:

Regulations also affect the siting, design and
closure of landfills and could require us to undertake
investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or
close landfills temporarily or permanently. Future changes in
these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or
replace equipment or facilities. The costs of complying with
these regulations could be substantial.

In order to develop, expand or operate a landfill
or other waste management facility, we must have various
facility permits and other governmental approvals, including
those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use.
The permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming
and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit
operations.

The possibility of disposal site
    developments, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not
    being completed or certain other events could result in a
    material charge against our earnings

In accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances
relating to disposal site development, expansion projects and
acquisitions. We expense indirect acquisition costs as incurred,
such as executive salaries, general corporate overhead, public
affairs and other corporate services. Our policy is to charge
against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and
advances relating to any facility or operation that is
permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, any pending
acquisition that is not consummated and any disposal site
development or expansion project that is not completed or
determined to be impaired. The charge against earnings is
reduced by any portion of the capitalized expenditures and
advances that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or
otherwise. In


future periods, we may be required to incur
charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or due
to other events that cause impairments. Depending on the
magnitude, any such charges could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations and possibly our ability to meet
the financial covenants in our credit arrangements, which could
negatively affect our liquidity.

The development and acceptance of
    alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to-energy facilities
    could reduce our ability to operate at full
    capacity

Our customers are increasingly using alternatives
to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting. In
addition, some state and local governments mandate recycling and
waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of
certain types of wastes, such as yard wastes, at landfills or
waste-to-energy facilities. Although such mandates are a useful
tool to protect our environment, these developments reduce the
volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to-energy
facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to
operate our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities at full
capacity, as well as the prices that we can charge for landfill
disposal and waste-to-energy services.

Our business is seasonal in nature and our
    revenues and results vary from quarter-to-quarter

Our operating revenues are usually lower in the
winter months, primarily because the volume of waste relating to
construction and demolition activities usually increases in the
spring and summer months, and the volume of industrial and
residential waste in certain regions where we operate usually
decreases during the winter months. Our first and fourth quarter
results of operations typically are adversely affected by these
seasonal changes. In addition, particularly harsh weather
conditions may result in the temporary suspension of certain of
our operations.

Fluctuations in commodity prices affect our
    operating revenues

Our recycling operations process for sale certain
recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all
of which are subject to significant price fluctuations. The
majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are fibers,
including old corrugated cardboard (“OCC”), and old
newsprint (“ONP”). We enter into commodity price
derivatives in an effort to mitigate some of the variability in
cash flows from the sales of fibers at floating prices. In the
past three years, the year-over-year changes in the quarterly
average market prices for OCC ranged from a decrease of as much
as 66% to an increase of as much as 131%. The same comparisons
for ONP have ranged from a decrease of as much as 48% to an
increase of as much as 64%. These fluctuations can affect future
operating income and cash flows.

Additionally, there may be significant price
fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other
energy related products that are marketed and sold by our
landfill gas recovery, waste-to-energy and independent power
production plant operations. Our landfill gas recovery and
waste-to-energy operations generally enter into long-term sales
agreements. Therefore, market fluctuations do not have a
significant effect on these operations in the short-term.
However, revenues from our independent power production plants
can be effected by price fluctuations. In the past two years,
the year-over-year changes in the average quarterly electricity
prices have ranged from increases of as much as 7% to decreases
of as much as 39%.

We face uncertainties relating to pending
    litigation and investigations

We and some of our subsidiaries are also
currently involved in civil litigation and governmental
proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. The timing
of the final resolutions to these matters is uncertain.
Additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these
matters could include judgments against us or settlements,
either of which could require substantial payments by us,
adversely affecting our liquidity.

Intense competition could reduce our
    profitability

We encounter intense competition from
governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all
aspects of our operations. In North America, the industry
consists of large national waste management companies, and local
and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources.
We compete with these


companies as well as with counties and
municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and
disposal operations. These counties and municipalities may have
financial competitive advantages because tax revenues and
tax-exempt financing are available to them. Also, such
governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other
restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. In
addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales
volume or to win competitively bid contracts.

Efforts by labor unions to organize our
    employees could divert management’s attention and increase
    our operating expenses

Labor unions constantly make attempts to organize
our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the
future. Certain groups of our employees have chosen to be
represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective
bargaining agreements with some of the groups. Additional groups
of employees may seek union representation in the future, and
the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert
management attention and result in increased operating expenses
and lower net income. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable
collective bargaining agreements, we might have to wait through
“cooling off” periods, which are often followed by
union-initiated work stoppages, including strikes. Depending on
the type and duration of any labor disruptions, our operating
expenses could increase significantly, which could adversely
affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.

Fluctuations in fuel costs could affect our
    operating expenses

The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and
fluctuates based on events outside our control, including
geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas,
actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest
in oil producing countries, regional production patterns and
environmental concerns. Fuel is needed to run our collection and
transfer trucks, and any price escalations or reductions in the
supply could increase our operating expenses and have a negative
impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows. We have implemented a fuel surcharge
to partially offset increased fuel costs. However, we are not
always able to pass through all of the increased fuel costs due
to the terms of certain customers’ contracts.

We face risks relating to general economic
    conditions

We face risks related to general economic and
market conditions, including the potential impact of the status
of the economy and interest rate fluctuations. We also face
risks related to other adverse external economic conditions,
such as the ability of our insurers to timely meet their
commitments and the effect that significant claims or litigation
against insurance companies may have on such ability. Any
negative general economic conditions could materially adversely
affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.

We may need additional
    capital

We currently expect to meet our anticipated cash
needs for capital expenditures, acquisitions and other cash
expenditures with our cash flows from operations and, to the
extent necessary, additional financings. However, our Board of
Directors approved a stock repurchase program pursuant to which
we may, at management’s discretion, repurchase up to
$1 billion of our common stock in 2004. Our Board of
Directors also initiated a quarterly dividend, which resulted in
the declaration of an $0.1875 per share dividend for the
first quarter of 2004. If our cash flows from operations are
less than is currently expected, or our capital expenditures or
acquisitions increase, we may elect to incur more indebtedness
or decrease share repurchase activity. However, there can be no
assurances that we will be able to obtain additional financings
on acceptable terms. In these circumstances, we would likely use
our revolving credit facilities to meet our cash needs.

Our credit facilities require us to comply with
certain financial ratios. If our cash flows are less than
expected, our capital requirements are more than expected or we
incur additional indebtedness, we may not be in compliance with
the ratios. This would result in a default under our credit
facilities. If we were unable to obtain waivers or amendments to
the credit facilities, the lenders could choose to declare all
outstanding


borrowings immediately due and payable, which we
may not be able to pay in full. Default under our credit
agreements or unavailability of this capital source could have a
material adverse effect on our ability to meet our borrowing and
bonding needs.

We may experience possible errors or
    problems upon implementation of new information technology
    systems

Upon implementation of new information technology
systems, we may experience problems that could adversely affect,
or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations
until resolved.

We may experience adverse impacts on our
    results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting
    standards or interpretations

Our implementation of and compliance with changes
in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and
interpretations, could adversely affect our operating results or
cause unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results in
future periods.

Item 2.

Properties.

Our principal executive offices are in Houston,
Texas, where we lease approximately 400,000 square feet
under leases expiring at various times through 2010. We also
have U.S. field-based administrative offices in Arizona,
Illinois, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire and Georgia and a
field-based administrative office in Ontario, Canada.

Our principal property and equipment consist of
land (primarily landfills and other disposal facilities,
transfer stations and bases for collection operations),
buildings, and vehicles and equipment. We own or lease real
property in most locations where we have operations. We have
operations in each of the fifty states other than Montana and
Wyoming. We also have operations in the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico and throughout Canada.

At December 31, 2003, of our 289 active
landfills, 247 were either owned or operated through lease
agreements. These sites occupy approximately 134,900 acres
of land, including approximately 33,500 permitted acres and
approximately 6,000 acres we consider to be probable
expansion acreage for landfill use. Our remaining 42 landfills
were operated through contractual agreements, primarily with
municipalities. At December 31, 2003, we operated 366
transfer stations, 138 material recovery facilities and 16
secondary processing facilities. We also owned or operated 17
waste-to-energy facilities and six independent power production
plants as of December 31, 2003.

We believe that our vehicles, equipment, and
operating properties are adequately maintained and adequate for
our current operations. However, we expect to continue to make
investments in additional equipment and property for expansion,
for replacement of assets, and in connection with future
acquisitions. For more information, see

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

included within this report.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings.

Information regarding our legal proceedings can
be found under the “Litigation” section of
Note 10 in the consolidated financial statements included
in this report.


Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders.

We did not submit any matters to a vote of our
stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2003.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity
    and Related Stockholder Matters.

Our common stock is traded on the New York
Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol
“WMI.” The following table sets forth the range of the
high and low per share sales prices for our common stock as
reported on the NYSE.

On February 12, 2004, the closing sale price
as reported on the NYSE was $29.39 per share. The number of
holders of record of our common stock at February 12, 2004
was 19,555.

We declared and paid cash dividends of
$0.01 per share, or approximately $6 million, during
each of 2001, 2002 and 2003. In August 2003, we announced that
our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend program
beginning in 2004. We declared our first quarterly dividend of
$0.1875 per share, which will be paid March 25, 2004
to stockholders of record as of March 1, 2004. See
Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for a
discussion of restrictions that limit our ability to pay
dividends.

In February 2002, we announced that our Board of
Directors had approved a stock repurchase program for up to
$1 billion in annual repurchases for each of 2002, 2003 and
2004, to be implemented at management’s discretion. The
purchases may be made in either open market or privately
negotiated transactions. We repurchased approximately
38 million shares for approximately $1 billion and
22 million shares for approximately $574 million
during 2002 and 2003, respectively. Share repurchases in 2003
were less than the $1 billion allowed because we used funds
that would have otherwise been available for this program to
settle our securities class action lawsuit and for our
acquisition program. See Note 14 to the consolidated
financial statements for further discussion of our share
repurchases.


Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data.

The information below was derived from the
audited consolidated financial statements included in this
report and in reports we have previously filed with the SEC.
This information should be read together with those consolidated
financial statements and the notes to the consolidated financial
statements. The adoption of new accounting pronouncements,
changes in certain accounting policies and certain
reclassifications impact the comparability of the financial
information presented below. These historical results are not
necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in the
future.

(a)

For more information regarding this financial
    data, see the

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations

section
    included in this report. For disclosures associated with the
    impact of the adoption of new accounting pronouncements and
    changes in our accounting policies on the comparability of this
    information, see Notes 2 and 6 of the consolidated
    financial statements.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Below is a discussion of our operations for the
three years ended December 31, 2003. This discussion may
contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results based
on management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. We
discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual
results to differ from expectations in Item 1 of this
report, under the section “Factors Influencing Future
Results and Accuracy of Forward-Looking Statements.” The
following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure
and together with the consolidated financial statements and the
notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Overview

We are in an industry that provides an essential
service needed by nearly every business and person. Our success
depends on our ability to focus on our core business,
operational excellence and financial strength and flexibility.
In 2003, we continued to build financial strength by meeting our
goal of producing adjusted free cash flow in the range of
$900 million to $1 billion. Free cash flow is not a
financial measure computed in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. However, we include it in our
communications to stockholders because we believe that the
amount of cash we produce from our non-financing activities that
is available to us for such things as acquisitions, share
repurchases, debt reductions and dividends is important in
evaluating our performance, including meeting our goal of
providing value to our stockholders. We compute free cash flow
by taking the net cash that was provided by our operating
activities, subtracting capital expenditures and adding proceeds
from our divestitures and other sales of assets. Free cash flow
is then adjusted for certain cash flow activity that we consider
unusual for the year. In 2003, the net cash provided by our
operating activities was approximately $1.9 billion. We
spent approximately $1.2 billion for capital expenditures.
After adding back the proceeds we received of approximately
$74 million from divestitures of businesses and other asset
sales, our free cash flow was approximately $800 million.
We adjusted this amount to take into consideration the
approximately $223 million net cash impact for the
settlement of our stockholder class action settlement, giving us
approximately $1.02 billion of adjusted free cash flow in
2003.

To help us improve our business and operations,
we have developed branded initiatives like WasteRoute and
Service Machine, as well as other initiatives to improve safety,
procurement, operations, cost control and sales. Although we
made significant progress in 2003, we have much more to do in
2004 and beyond and our Company is now better positioned to reap
the benefits of the programs we have put in place.

An integral part of our focus has been on
internal, or organic, growth. In 2003, internal revenue growth
was 0.9%, or $103 million, as compared to 2002. The biggest
driver in this increase was price, and we continue to work on
our pricing program. However, volumes declined as compared to
the prior year, due mostly to the loss of a large contract with
the City of Chicago early in the year, offsetting some of our
pricing achievement. We believe some of our performance in 2003
was due to general economic factors, although increased
competition also played a part. We cannot control the economy,
but we can compete, and therefore we focused on customer churn
rates and sales force effectiveness. In 2003, we continued to
hold our customer churn rate below 10%, which we see as a
benchmark for success, and we maintained the same amount of new
sales dollars in 2003 as compared to the prior year, even with a
smaller sales force. Moreover, it is generally believed that the
waste industry lags the economy by six to nine months.
Consequently, our sales force effectiveness program, including
our pricing strategy, should result in greater internal revenue
growth if the recent economic recovery continues in 2004 and
beyond. Finally, we also actively pursue strategic acquisitions
in our NASW operations. Through acquisitions, we increased our
2003 revenue by $334 million.

To achieve our goal of operational excellence, we
have been working hard to seek operational and cost
efficiencies. In 2003, we further streamlined our operating
infrastructure, which resulted in the elimination of about 1,300
employee positions and 470 contract workers. For 2003, we saw
cost savings from the reorganization in our selling, general and
administrative costs, while at the same time growing our total
revenues by 4%. The reorganization changed the roles of our
people in the field so that our operating sites are responsible
for delivering service and operational excellence and the market
areas are responsible for implementing strategy, improving
performance and ensuring profitability in their markets.


When measured on an initiative-by-initiative
basis, which is the way we measure our goals internally, we
believe that our efforts on cost reductions and efficiency
programs are paying off. We have continued to decrease the
maintenance cost per driver hour, which is the primary
performance metric for fleet maintenance. We also are focusing
on container maintenance, and have created improvement plans and
conducted test pilots to see where we can reduce costs.
Additionally, our focus on our safety program resulted in
another year-over-year decrease in recordable injuries and
vehicle accidents, although our per claim costs continued to
rise, offsetting the financial benefit of the reduced number of
claims. Finally, our WasteRoute initiative reduced the number of
routes we have, and now we are looking for opportunities to
further save on route-related costs.

Our operating costs and expenses for 2003 do not
show the level of improvement we believe we have made in our
initiatives to cut overall costs. This is due to an increase in
those costs as a result of a recharacterization of expenses that
had previously been classified as selling, general and
administrative costs, increased costs of goods sold due to
acquisitions of recycling businesses, the implementation of
SFAS No. 143, increased disposal costs at third party
facilities and increased labor rates. However, we believe that
we have the momentum necessary to continue all of our efforts
and make progress in 2004. We also believe that we have our
organizational structure and field based management at the
appropriate size for the current economy as well as for business
opportunities from an expanding economy.

Critical Accounting Estimates and
    Assumptions

In preparing our financial statements, we make
several estimates and assumptions that affect our assets and
liabilities and revenues and expenses. We must make these
estimates and assumptions because certain of the information
that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is
dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high
degree of precision from available data or is simply not capable
of being readily calculated based on generally accepted
methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly
difficult to determine and we must exercise significant
judgment. The most difficult, subjective and complex estimates
and the assumptions that deal with the greatest amount of
uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills,
environmental remediation liabilities and asset impairments, as
described below.

Landfills

—
Effective January 1, 2003, our method of accounting for
landfill closure and post-closure, as well as landfill final
capping, changed as a result of our adoption of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.

Through
December 31, 2002, the waste industry generally recognized
expenses associated with (i) amortization of capitalized
and future landfill asset costs and (ii) future closure and
post-closure obligations on a units-of-consumption basis as
airspace was consumed over the life of the related landfill.
This practice, referred to as life-cycle accounting within the
waste industry, continues to be followed, with the exception of
capitalized and future landfill final capping costs. As a result
of the adoption of SFAS No. 143, future final capping
costs are identified by specific capping event and amortized
over the specific estimated capacity related to that event
rather than over the life of the entire landfill, as was the
practice prior to our adoption of SFAS No. 143.

The cost estimates for final capping, closure and
post-closure activities at landfills for which we have
responsibility are estimated based on our interpretations of
current requirements and proposed or anticipated regulatory
changes. We also estimate additional costs, pursuant to the
requirements of SFAS No. 143, based on the amount a
third party would charge us to perform such activities even when
we expect to perform these activities internally. We estimate
the airspace to be consumed related to each final capping event
and the timing of each final capping event and closure and
post-closure activities. Because landfill final capping, closure
and post-closure obligations are measured at estimated fair
value using present value techniques, changes in the estimated
timing of future landfill final capping and closure and
post-closure activities would have an effect on these
liabilities, related assets and results of operations.

Landfill
Costs

— We estimate the
total cost to develop each landfill site to its final capacity.
This includes certain projected landfill costs that are
uncertain because they are dependent on future events. The total
cost to develop a site to its final capacity includes amounts
previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace
amortization, and projections of future purchase and development
costs, landfill liner construction costs, operating construction
costs, and capitalized interest costs.


Final Capping
Costs

— We estimate the cost
for each final capping event based on the area to be finally
capped and the capping materials and activities required. The
estimates also consider when these costs would actually be paid
and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering
personnel allocate final landfill capping costs to specific
capping events. They then quantify the landfill capacity
associated with each final capping event and the final capping
costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity
associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the
landfill.

Closure and Post-Closure
Costs

— We base our
estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our
interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for
closure and post-closure maintenance and monitoring. The
estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also
consider when the costs would actually be paid and factor in
inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal
and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of
these types of costs make any estimation or assumption uncertain.

Available
Airspace

— Our engineers are
responsible for determining available airspace at our landfills.
This is done by using surveys and other methods to calculate,
based on height restrictions and other factors, how much
airspace is left to fill and how much waste can be disposed of
at a landfill before it has reached its final capacity.

Expansion
Airspace

— We also include
currently unpermitted airspace in our estimate of available
airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace
associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect
the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within
one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within
five years. Second, we must believe the success of obtaining the
expansion permit is probable, using the following criteria:

These criteria are initially evaluated by our
field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to
identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. However,
our policy provides that, based on the facts and circumstances
of a specific landfill, if these criteria are not met, inclusion
of unpermitted airspace may still be allowed. In these
circumstances, inclusion must be approved through a
landfill-specific review process that includes approval of the
Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 84 landfill
sites with expansions at December 31, 2003, 25 landfills
required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of
the unpermitted airspace. Approximately two-thirds of these
landfills required approval by the Chief Financial Officer
because legal, community, or other issues could impede the
expansion process, while the remaining were primarily because
the permit application processes would not meet the one and five
year requirements, which in many cases were due to
state-specific permitting procedures. When we include the
expansion airspace in our calculations of available airspace, we
also include the projected costs for development, final capping,
and closure and post-closure of the expansion in the
amortization basis of the landfill.

After determining the costs at our landfills,
including final capping costs and closure and post-closure
costs, and the available and probable expansion airspace
relating to such costs, we then determine the per ton


rates that will be expensed. We look at factors
such as the waste stream, geography and rate of compaction,
among others, to determine the number of tons necessary to fill
the available and probable expansion airspace relating to these
costs and activities. We then divide costs by the corresponding
number of tons, giving us the rate per ton to expense for each
activity as waste is received and deposited at the landfill. We
calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for
assets associated with each final capping event, for assets
related to closure and post-closure activities and for all other
costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future.

It is possible that actual results could
ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our
estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or
related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than
actual results, or our belief that we will receive an expansion
permit changes adversely in a significant manner, the costs of
the landfill, including the costs incurred in the pursuit of the
expansion, may be subject to impairment testing, as described
below. Lower profitability may be experienced due to higher
amortization rates, higher closure and post-closure rates, and
higher expenses or asset impairments related to the removal of
previously included expansion airspace. Additionally, if it is
determined that the likelihood of receiving an expansion permit
has become remote, the capitalized costs related to the
expansion effort are expensed immediately.

Environmental Remediation
Liabilities

— Under current
laws and regulations, we may have liability for environmental
damage caused by our operations, or for damage caused by
conditions that existed before we acquired a site. Remedial
costs are all costs relating to the remedy of any identified
situation that occurs by natural causes or human error not
expected in the normal course of business. These costs include
potentially responsible party (“PRP”) investigation,
settlement, certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs
directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such
as materials and incremental internal costs directly related to
the remedy. We estimate costs required to remediate sites where
liability is probable based on site-specific facts and
circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that
require remediation, considering whether we were an owner,
operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and
type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were
connected with the site. Next, we review the same information
with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the
cost for the likely remedy are then either developed using our
internal resources or by third party environmental engineers or
other service providers. Internally developed estimates are
based on:

Asset
Impairments

— Our long-lived
assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried
on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated
depreciation or amortization. However, accounting standards
require us to write down assets or groups of assets if they
become impaired. If significant events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset or
asset group may not be recoverable, we perform a test of
recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or
asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. Cash
flow projections are sometimes based on a group of assets,
rather than a single asset. If cash flows cannot be separately
and independently identified for a single asset, we will
determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of
assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If
the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected
future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the
fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value.
Fair value is determined by either an actual third-party
evaluation or an internally developed discounted projected cash
flow analysis of the asset or asset group. If the fair value of
an asset or asset group is determined to be less than the
carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in
the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the
impairment indicator occurs.


Typical indicators that an asset may be impaired
include:

If any of these or other indicators occur, we
review the asset to determine whether there has been an
impairment. Several of these indicators are beyond our control,
and we cannot predict with any certainty whether or not they
will occur. Additionally, estimating future cash flows requires
significant judgment and our projections may vary from cash
flows eventually realized. There are additional considerations
for impairments of landfills and goodwill, as described below.

Landfills

—
There are certain indicators listed above that require
significant judgment and understanding of the waste industry
when applied to landfill development or expansion projects. For
example, a regulator may initially deny a landfill expansion
permit application though the expansion permit is ultimately
granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste
from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted
landfill airspace. Therefore, certain events could occur in the
ordinary course of business and not necessarily be considered
indicators of impairment due to the unique nature of the waste
industry.

Goodwill

—
We assess whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis. Upon
determining the existence of goodwill impairment, we measure
that impairment based on the amount by which the book value of
goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. The implied fair value
of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of a
reporting unit’s identifiable assets and liabilities from
the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole, as if that
reporting unit had just been acquired and the purchase price
were being initially allocated. Additional impairment
assessments may be performed on an interim basis if we encounter
events or changes in circumstances, such as those listed above,
that would indicate that, more likely than not, the book value
of goodwill has been impaired.


Results of Operations

The following table presents, for the periods
indicated, the period-to-period change in dollars (in millions)
and percentages for the various statement of operations line
items.


The following table presents, for the periods
indicated, the percentage relationship that the various
statement of operations line items bear to operating revenues:

Results of Operations for the Three Years
Ended December 31, 2003

Operating Revenues

Our operating revenues in 2003 were
$11.6 billion, compared to $11.1 billion in 2002, and
$11.3 billion in 2001. As shown below, North American Solid
Waste, or NASW, is our principal operation, and is comprised of
seven operating Groups within North America, along with our
Other NASW services. The operations shown as “Other”
in the table below consisted of international waste management
services and non-solid waste services, all of which were
divested as of March 31, 2002.


Our NASW operating revenues generally come from
fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer and
recycling services. Some of the fees we charge to our customers
for collection services are billed in advance; a liability for
future service is recorded when we bill the customer and
operating revenues are recognized as services are actually
provided. Revenues from our disposal operations consist of
tipping fees charged to third parties based on the volume and
type of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities and
are normally billed monthly or semi-monthly. Fees charged at
transfer stations are based on the volume of waste deposited,
taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and
disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling
revenue, which is generated by our Recycling Group as well as
our five geographic operating Groups, generally consists of the
sale of recyclable commodities to third parties and tipping
fees. Intercompany revenues between our operations have been
eliminated in the consolidated financial statements.

The mix of NASW operating revenues from our
different services is reflected in the table below (in millions).

The following table provides details associated
with the period-to-period change in NASW revenues (dollars in
millions) along with an explanation of the significant
components of the current period changes.

Price — Base Business

2003 versus 2002

The increase in base business pricing is
attributable to our collection, transfer and waste-to-energy
businesses, with a significant increase in our residential
collection operations. Certain of these price increases relate
to additional costs and taxes that have been charged to our
customers. However, the increase was partially offset by our
landfill business, where we experienced decreases in
price-related revenue principally


due to our special waste landfill operations,
mainly because of an increase in lower priced event work in the
southern and western portions of the United States.

2002 versus 2001

The revenue increase due to price in our base
business was derived from our commercial and residential
collection and transfer station operations. However, these
increases were offset partially by decreased pricing in our
landfill special waste operations.

Price — Commodity

2003 versus 2002

The commodity price increases in 2003 were driven
by the prices of ONP and plastic commodities. ONP prices
increased to an average of $69 per ton for 2003 as compared
to an average of $67 per ton for 2002. Plastic commodity
prices have increased an average of 50%. Partially offsetting
these increases is a decline in the price of OCC, which has
declined to an average of $64 per ton in 2003 as compared
to an average of $71 per ton in 2002.

2002 versus 2001

There were significant increases in commodity
prices in 2002 as compared to 2001, most notably an increase in
OCC prices, which increased to an average price of $71 per
ton for 2002 as compared to an average price of $45 per ton
for 2001.

Price — Electricity and
Fuel

2003 versus 2002

Electricity rates remained relatively flat in
2003 as compared to 2002. However, we experienced positive price
increases due to increased fuel surcharges billed to customers
as a result of higher fuel costs.

2002 versus 2001

Reduced electricity rates and fuel surcharges
negatively impacted the price related revenue change in 2002 as
compared to the prior year.

Volume

2003 versus 2002

The decrease in revenue due to volumes was
primarily in our collection and recycling businesses. We believe
the 2003 declines in collection were the result of general
economic conditions and increased competition, particularly in
the eastern and midwestern portions of the United States. Our
loss of a contract with the City of Chicago during February 2003
was the primary reason for volume declines in transfer and
recycling, accounting for lost revenues of approximately
$60 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
Partially offsetting these decreases were increases in special
waste volumes at our landfills, primarily in the southern and
western portions of the United States.

2002 versus 2001

The volume decline in 2002 as compared to 2001
largely related to commercial and industrial collection services
throughout our operations, with the exception of the southern
portion of the United States, where we realized slight volume
increases. We also experienced declines in disposal revenue due
to volume primarily in the eastern and western portions of the
United States. We believe that the overall decreased volumes,
particularly in the higher margin commercial and industrial
collection services, were attributable to the lagging economy
and increased competition. However, the declines were offset by
increased volumes in our recycling operations of
$19 million in 2002 as compared to 2001.


Acquisitions and Divestitures

2003 versus 2002

In connection with our formation of Recycle
America Alliance in January 2003, we acquired the Peltz Group,
the largest privately-held recycler in the United States. We
also acquired several collection businesses that complemented
and enhanced our existing collection network. These increases
were partially offset by divestitures of low margin operations.

2002 versus 2001

Revenue in 2002 increased due to a number of
individually small acquisitions consummated during 2002 and the
full year effect of acquisitions completed in 2001. The
increases due to acquisitions were partially offset by 2002
divestitures.

Foreign Currency Translation

2003 versus 2002

Fluctuations in the relative value of the
Canadian dollar favorably affected revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2003.

2002 versus 2001

Fluctuations in the relative value of the
Canadian dollar negatively affected revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2002.

Operating Costs and Expenses (Exclusive of
    Depreciation and Amortization Shown Below)

Our operating costs and expenses include direct
and indirect labor and related taxes and benefits, risks
management costs, fuel, facility operating costs, maintenance
and repairs of equipment and facilities, tipping fees paid to
third party disposal facilities and transfer stations, and
accretion of and expense revisions relating to future landfill
capping, closure and post-closure costs and environmental
remediation. Certain direct landfill development expenditures
are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of
a site as capacity is consumed, and include acquisition,
engineering, upgrading, construction, capitalized interest, and
permitting costs. Additionally, we sometimes receive
reimbursements from insurance carriers relating to
environmentally related remedial, defense and tort claim costs.
Such recoveries are included in operating costs and expenses as
an offset to environmental expenses.

For the year ended December 31, 2003,
operating costs and expenses were $637 million higher than
the prior year period, representing an increase of 9.3%. As a
percentage of operating revenue, operating costs and expenses
were 64.9% for the year ended December 31, 2003, which is a
3.2 percentage point increase from the prior year period.
The increase was generally due to:


Business acquisitions accounted for approximately
$286 million of the increases discussed above.

For the year ended December 31, 2002,
operating costs and expenses were $214 million higher than
the prior year period, representing an increase of 3.2%. As a
percentage of operating revenue, operating costs and expenses
were 61.7% for the year ended December 31, 2002, which is a
2.8 percentage point increase from the prior year period.
The increase was generally due to:

These increases in operating costs and expenses
were offset by headcount reductions as a result of the March
2002 reorganization and divestitures of our international
operations in 2001 and the non-solid waste operations in the
first quarter of 2002.

Selling, General and Administrative
    Expenses

Our selling, general and administrative expenses
include management salaries, clerical and administrative costs,
marketing costs, professional services, facility rentals,
provision for doubtful accounts and related insurance costs, as
well as costs related to our sales force and customer service.


For the year ended December 31, 2003,
selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by
$176 million, or 12.6%, as compared to the prior year. As a
percentage of revenue, the decrease was 2.0 percentage
points from 12.5% for the year ended December 31, 2002 to
10.5% for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease
was generally due to:

The decrease in selling, general and
administrative expenses in 2002 as compared to 2001 is primarily
attributable to:

•

Management’s focus on reducing spending
    related to professional fees, travel and entertainment, and
    other administrative costs;

•

Headcount reductions and the re-characterization
    of certain expenses as costs of operations as a result of the
    March 2002 restructuring; and

•

Divestitures of international and non-solid waste
    operations in 2001 and in early 2002.

These reductions were offset partially by
increased costs associated with litigation settlements, higher
bad debt expense largely attributable to the weaker economy,
workers compensation costs, and property-related costs such as
property taxes, maintenance and security.

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and amortization includes
(i) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life
primarily on a straight-line basis over the definitive terms of
the related agreements (generally from 3 to 7 years);
(ii) depreciation of property and equipment on a
straight-line basis from 3 to 50 years; (iii) amortization
of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated
future costs for landfill development, construction, closure and
post-closure, on a units-of-consumption method as landfill
airspace is consumed over the estimated remaining capacity of a
site; and (iv) as a result of our adoption of
SFAS No. 143, amortization of landfill asset
retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a
units-of-consumption method as airspace is consumed over the
estimated capacity associated with each final capping event.

As a percentage of operating revenues,
depreciation and amortization expense was 10.9% in 2003, 11.0%
in 2002 and 12.1% in 2001. Depreciation and amortization
remained relatively flat from 2002 to 2003 even after
considering the effect of the accounting changes that resulted
from our adoption of SFAS No. 143.

The decrease in depreciation and amortization
expense in 2002 is primarily attributable to our adoption of
SFAS No. 142, which required that the amortization of
all goodwill cease on January 1, 2002. Goodwill
amortization for 2001 was $156 million, or 1.4% of
operating revenues. Excluding the effect of goodwill
amortization expense in 2001, depreciation and amortization
expense as a percentage of revenues increased 0.3% from 2001 to
2002. The following schedule reflects the 2001 adjusted net
income (excluding goodwill


and negative goodwill amortization) as compared
to the results of operations for December 31, 2002 and 2003
(in millions, except per share amounts).

Restructuring

In 2002, we reorganized our operations to form
market areas within our geographic Groups to better align
collection, transport, recycling and disposal resources. As part
of the restructuring, we reduced the number of field layers of
management and eliminated approximately 1,900 field-level
administrative and operational positions. In 2002, we recorded
$38 million in pre-tax charges for costs associated with
the implementation of the new structure. These charges included
$36 million for employee severance and benefit costs and
$2 million related to abandoned operating lease agreements.

In February 2003, we reduced the number of market
areas that make up our geographic operating Groups to 66 from 91
at December 31, 2002, and reduced certain overhead
positions to further streamline our organization. Management
believes that this structure results in a more effective
utilization of resources and enables us to serve our customers
more efficiently. In connection with these restructuring
efforts, we reduced our workforce by about 700 employees
and 270 contract workers. We recorded $20 million of
pre-tax charges for costs associated with the implementation of
the new structure, all of which was associated with employee
severance and benefit costs.

The operational efficiencies provided by these
organizational changes and a focus on fully utilizing the
capabilities of our information technology resources enabled us
to further reduce our workforce in June 2003. This workforce
reduction resulted in the elimination of 600 employee
positions and 200 contract worker positions. We recorded
$24 million of pre-tax charges for employee severance and
benefit costs associated with this workforce reduction.

As of December 31, 2003, approximately
$11 million remains accrued for employee severance and
benefit costs incurred as a result of these workforce
reductions. Our obligations for the accrued severance payments
continue through the third quarter of 2005.

Asset Impairments and Unusual
    Items

During 2003, we recorded a net gain of
$8 million to asset impairments and unusual items primarily
as a result of gains of $13 million recognized on
divestitures of certain operations that were offset, in part, by
$5 million for asset impairment and other miscellaneous
charges.

In 2002, the net gain for asset impairments and
unusual items was due primarily to (i) our receipt of
approximately $11 million related to a previously impaired,
non-revenue producing asset, (ii) net gains of


approximately $8 million on divestitures
during the year and (iii) reductions to legal reserves of
approximately $8 million and loss contract reserves of
approximately $7 million that we deemed were in excess of
current requirements and that were initially recognized as a
charge to asset impairments and unusual items.

In 2001, the expense was comprised mainly of a
charge of $374 million, which is net of the recovery from
our insurers and the stockholders derivative suit against our
former independent public accountant, Arthur Andersen LLP, for
the settlement reached in connection with the stockholder class
action lawsuit filed against us in July 1999 alleging violations
of the federal securities laws. The final net cash settlement
payment of $377 million, which is the amount provided by
the settlement agreement plus accrued interest less our
recoveries, was made in the third quarter of 2003. Additionally
in 2001, we recorded a held-for-sale adjustment of approximately
$15 million related to our international operations along
with a held-for-sale adjustment for an investment in Mexican
solid waste operations of approximately $28 million.
Offsetting these expenses was a net gain of $24 million
(comprised of the reversal of the held-for-sale impairment of
$109 million and a held-for-use impairment of
$85 million) from our decision during the third quarter of
2001 not to sell all but one of our independent power production
plants, and the reclassification in the third quarter of 2001 of
all but one of those plants from held-for-sale to held-for-use.
Also included in asset impairments and unusual items for 2001
were reversals of certain loss contract reserves of
$13 million that we determined to be in excess of current
requirements.

Interest Expense

Our interest expense decreased consistently each
year from 2001 to 2003. The decrease in interest expense is
partially attributable to our increased utilization of
tax-exempt financing, which has resulted in a decline in our
weighted average interest rate. The remaining decrease in
interest expense from 2001 to 2003 is attributable to the
overall positive impact of our interest rate derivative
contracts, which are used to manage our interest rate exposure,
and the general decline in interest rates. Interest rate swap
agreements reduced interest expense by $90 million in 2003,
$86 million in 2002 and $39 million in 2001.

Other Income

We experienced a significant impact to other
income in 2002 as compared to other years due primarily to the
sale of an equity investment. In 2002, a company in which we
held an approximately 17% interest was acquired by another
entity. We also held a note from the acquired company that was
paid off in connection with the acquisition. The proceeds from
the repayment of the note and the sale of our equity investment
resulted in a gain of approximately $43 million in the
fourth quarter of 2002.

Provision for Income Taxes

We recorded a provision for income taxes of
$404 million for 2003, $422 million for 2002 and
$283 million for 2001 resulting in an effective income tax
rate of 36.0%, 34.0%, and 36.1% for each of the three years,
respectively. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial
statements for further discussion.

The difference in federal income taxes computed
at the federal statutory rate and reported income taxes for 2003
and 2002 is primarily due to state and local income taxes,
offset in part by non-conventional fuel tax credits.
Additionally, in 2003 we recognized a $6 million tax
benefit on the settlement of certain foreign audits. In 2002 we
recognized a tax benefit of approximately $16 million due
to a capital gain generated in 2002 that enabled us to utilize a
previously unbenefitted capital loss that arose from a
divestiture. A tax benefit of approximately $31 million was
also recognized in 2002 related to the carry-back of losses by
our Dutch subsidiary.

The difference in federal income taxes computed
at the federal statutory rate and reported income taxes for 2001
is primarily due to state and local income taxes, non-deductible
costs associated with the impairment of certain businesses, the
cost associated with remitting the earnings of certain foreign
subsidiaries that are no longer permanently reinvested, offset
in part by non-conventional fuel tax credits. Additionally, in
2001 scheduled Canadian federal and provincial tax rate
reductions resulted in a benefit of $42 million, which was


offset in part by a tax expense of
$24 million related to our plan to repatriate certain
capital and earnings previously deemed permanently invested in
Canada.

Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting
    Principle

In the first and fourth quarters of 2003, we
recorded net of tax charges of $46 million and
$43 million, respectively, to cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles for the initial adoption of the
accounting changes described below.

In the first quarter of 2002, we recorded a
credit of $2 million to cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle to write-off the aggregate amount of
negative goodwill as a result of adopting
SFAS No. 141,

Accounting for Business
Combinations.

In the first quarter of 2001, adoption of
SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities,

resulted in a gain, net of tax, of
approximately $2 million.

Income From Operations by Reportable
    Segment

We manage and evaluate our operations primarily
through our Eastern, Midwest, Southern, Western, Canadian,
Wheelabrator and Recycling Groups. These Groups, when combined
with certain other operations, comprise our North American Solid
Waste, or NASW, operations. The operations not managed through
our seven operating Groups are presented herein as “Other
NASW.”


As discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated
financial statements, our restructuring and workforce reductions
have impacted the operating results of our reportable segments
in 2003 and 2002. The following table summarizes income from
operations by reportable segment for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 and provides explanations
of other factors contributing to the significant changes in our
segments’ operating results (in millions).

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following is a summary of our cash balances
and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002
and 2001 (in millions):

Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of
cash on deposit, certificates of deposit, money market accounts,
and investment grade commercial paper purchased with original
maturities of three months or less.

We generated cash flows from operations of
approximately $1.9 billion in 2003, which included
approximately $109 million received for the fair value of
interest rate swap agreements terminated prior to their
scheduled maturities. Also included as a component of 2003 cash
flows from operations is a net cash


outflow of approximately $223 million
associated with the final settlement of our securities class
action lawsuit, which occurred during the third quarter.
Settlement related activity impacting our operating cash flows
during the year includes: (i) a final net cash settlement
payment of approximately $377 million associated with the
settlement agreement of a shareholder class action suit plus
accrued interest; (ii) utilization of insurance proceeds of
approximately $87 million to settle the remaining portion
of the settlement; (iii) a total tax benefit of
approximately $138 million, of which we realized
$66 million in the second quarter and $36 million in
each of the third and fourth quarters and (iv) related net
settlement recoveries of approximately $16 million.

During 2003 we used $1.1 billion for
investing activities, consisting of $1.2 billion for
capital expenditures and $337 million for the acquisition
of businesses, net of cash acquired, which were offset by net
receipts of $371 million from restricted funds and proceeds
from divestitures of businesses, net of cash divested, and other
asset sales and other items of $82 million. Additionally,
we used $1.0 billion for financing activities, which
consisted primarily of the repurchase of shares of our common
stock for $550 million and net debt reductions of
$456 million.

Our cash balances decreased by $466 million
from December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2002. This
decrease is primarily attributable to capital expenditures, our
stock repurchase program and the repayment of portions of our
senior note issuances prior to their maturity dates.

In 2002, cash flow from operations was favorably
impacted by $166 million for cash received from
counterparties for certain interest rate swap agreements that we
terminated prior to the scheduled maturities, offset by cash
paid of $66 million to counterparties for the settlement of
hedging agreements entered into to secure underlying interest
rates related to our 2002 debt issuances. Included in our
investing activities was cash paid of $1.3 billion for
capital expenditures and $162 million for acquisitions of
solid waste businesses. These expenditures were offset by
proceeds of $487 million from other investing activities,
primarily proceeds from sales of assets and net cash receipts
from restricted funds. Included in our financing activities was
cash paid of $982 million for the repurchase of shares of
our common stock. In addition, we paid $697 million for net
debt reductions and received $27 million from exercises of
common stock options and warrants.

In 2001, we generated cash flows from operations
of approximately $2.4 billion. Favorably impacting cash
flows from operations was cash received of $59 million for
the settlement of environmental related claims that we had
against certain insurance carriers and $64 million that we
received from counterparties when we terminated certain interest
rate swap agreements prior to the scheduled maturities. Included
in our investing activities was $1.3 billion of capital
expenditures and $116 million for acquisitions of solid
waste businesses. These expenditures were offset by proceeds
from sales of assets and other investing activities of
$212 million. In addition, we used $485 million for
financing activities, which is comprised of $510 million of
net debt reductions and $25 million of other financing
activities, offset by proceeds of $50 million from
exercises of common stock options and warrants.

We operate in a capital intensive business and
continuing access to various financing sources is vital to our
operations. In the past, we have been successful in obtaining
financing from a variety of sources on terms we consider
attractive. Based on several key factors we believe considered
by credit rating agencies and financial markets to be important
in determining our future access to financing, we expect to
continue to maintain access to capital sources in the future.
These factors include:

In addition to our working capital needs for
ongoing operations, we have capital requirements for
(i) capital expenditures for construction and expansion of
landfill sites, as well as new trucks and equipment


for collection and other operations,
(ii) refurbishments and improvements at waste-to-energy
facilities and (iii) business acquisitions. For 2004, we
currently expect to spend approximately $1.15 billion to
$1.25 billion for capital expenditures and approximately
$250 million for acquisitions.

In February 2002, we announced that our Board of
Directors had approved a stock repurchase program for up to
$1 billion in annual repurchases for each year through
2004, to be implemented at management’s discretion. Share
repurchases in 2003 were less than the $1 billion allowed
because we used funds that would have otherwise been available
for this program to settle our securities class action lawsuit
and for our acquisition program. We expect to utilize cash flows
from operations for purchases made in either open market or
privately negotiated transactions.

The following is a summary of activity to date
for our stock repurchase program (in millions, except shares in
thousands and price per share in dollars).

In August 2003, we announced that the Board of
Directors approved a quarterly dividend program beginning in
2004. It is expected that the dividend will be $0.1875 per
share per quarter, or $0.75 per share annually. The first
quarterly dividend of $0.1875 per share will be paid on
March 25, 2004 to stockholders of record as of
March 1, 2004. Our 2004 dividend payments are expected to
result in a cash outlay of approximately $430 million.


The following table summarizes our contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2003 and the anticipated
effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in
millions):

We have contingencies that are deemed not
reasonably likely and thus not included in the above table. See
Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for
further discussion.

Our strategy is to primarily utilize cash flows
from operations to meet our capital needs and contractual
obligations. However, we also have bank borrowings available to
meet our capital needs and contractual obligations and, when
appropriate, will obtain financing by issuing debt or common
stock.

As of December 31, 2003, we had a
three-year, $650 million syndicated revolving credit
facility and a five-year, $1.75 billion syndicated
revolving credit facility. The three-year revolver matures in
June 2005 and the five-year revolver matures in June 2006. At
December 31, 2003, no borrowings were outstanding under our
revolving credit facilities and we had unused and available
credit capacity under these facilities of approximately
$792 million.

As of December 31, 2003, we are required to
maintain the following financial covenants under our revolving
credit facilities: (i) an interest coverage ratio;
(ii) total debt to EBITDA ratio; and (iii) minimum net
worth, all as defined in the credit facilities solely for the
purpose of determining compliance with the


covenants. The interest coverage ratio requires
that at the end of any fiscal quarter we will not permit the
ratio of (A) our consolidated net income plus interest
expense and income taxes (“EBIT”) for the four fiscal
quarters then ending to (B) consolidated total interest
expense for such period, to be less than 3 to 1. The total debt
to EBITDA covenant requires that at the end of any fiscal
quarter, we will not permit the ratio of (A) all
indebtedness and certain contingent liabilities such as
financial guarantees to (B) EBIT plus depreciation and
amortization expense (“EBITDA”) for the four fiscal
quarters then ending to exceed 3.25 to 1. Our minimum net worth
covenant restricts us from allowing stockholders’ equity to
be less than $3.5 billion plus 75% of our cumulative
consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, beginning with
the first fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2001. The credit
facilities requiring compliance with these financial covenants
state that the calculations must be based on generally accepted
accounting principles promulgated by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board and applied by us during the latest fiscal year
before the date of the facilities, or December 31, 2000 and
2001. Therefore, our adoption or implementation of accounting
pronouncements or interpretations effective after those dates
does not impact the calculation of the financial covenants
defined above. We are in compliance with all covenants under our
revolving credit facilities and all other debt instruments.

We have increased our utilization of tax-exempt
financing and plan to continue this trend due to the attractive
rates offered for these instruments. As such, we continue to
assess our financial assurance and letter of credit requirements
and expect that we will arrange additional long-term letter of
credit and/or surety bond capacity in advance of our business
requirements.

We have issued tax-exempt bonds primarily for the
construction of collection and disposal facilities. Proceeds
from these financing arrangements are directly deposited into
trust funds and we do not have the ability to utilize the funds
in regular operating activities. Accordingly, we report these
amounts as an investing activity when the cash is released from
the trust funds and a financing activity when the industrial
revenue bonds are repaid. At December 31, 2003,
approximately $465 million of funds were held in trust to
meet future capital expenditures at various facilities. These
fund balances are included as other long-term assets in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Historically, proceeds
from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds held in trust funds have
been invested in cash and cash equivalents. Beginning in the
fourth quarter of 2003 we determined that it would be beneficial
to invest these funds in longer term, higher yield debt
instruments. As of December 31, 2003, $397 million of
our trust fund assets funded by tax-exempt bonds and held for
future capital expenditures were invested in
U.S. government agency debt securities with maturities
ranging from less than one year to three years.

We manage the interest rate risk of our debt
portfolio principally by using interest rate derivatives to
achieve a desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt, which was
approximately 63% fixed and 37% floating at December 31,
2003. In addition, we use variable rate tax-exempt financings
and periodically enter into derivative transactions to secure
the then-current market interest rate in anticipation of senior
debt issuances.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We are party to (i) lease agreements with
unconsolidated variable interest entities as discussed in
Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements,
(ii) product and service purchase commitments as discussed
in the

Other long-term commitments

section of
Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements and
(iii) guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities
as discussed in the

Guarantees

section of Note 10 to
the consolidated financial statements. These lease agreements
and purchase commitments are established in the ordinary course
of our business and are designed to provide us with access to
facilities, products and services at competitive, market-driven
prices. Our third-party guarantee arrangements are generally
established to support our financial assurance needs and
landfill operations. These arrangements have not materially
affected our financial position, results of operations or
liquidity during the period ended December 31, 2003 nor are
they expected to have a material impact on our future financial
position, results of operations or liquidity.


Seasonal Trends and Inflation

Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat lower
in the winter months, primarily due to the lower volume of
construction and demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and
residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend
to decrease during the winter months. Our first and fourth
quarter results of operations typically reflect these seasonal
trends. We also use the slower winter months for scheduled
maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities, so repair and
maintenance expense is generally higher in our first quarter
than in other quarters during the year. In addition,
particularly harsh weather conditions may result in the
temporary suspension of certain of our operations.

We believe that inflation has not had, and in the
near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect
on our results of operations. However, management’s
estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue
to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and
environmental liabilities.

New Accounting Pronouncements

Information regarding our assessment of new
accounting pronouncements can be found in Note 23 to the
consolidated financial statements included in this report.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure
    About Market Risk.

In the normal course of business, we are exposed
to market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign
currency rates and certain commodity prices. From time to time,
we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. Our
derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that
provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no
multipliers or leverage. As of December 31, 2003, all of
the derivatives were related to actual or anticipated exposures
of our transactions, with the exception of certain derivatives
related to the fiber commodity markets that were entered into
for trading purposes. We are exposed to credit risk in the event
of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. However, we
monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our
positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of
whom we either consider credit-worthy, or who have issued
letters of credit to support their performance.

We have performed sensitivity analyses to
determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of
our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions.
This analysis is inherently limited because it represents a
singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market
movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. The
effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly
affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not
covered by sensitivity analysis. Fair value sensitivity is not
necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings
effect from the assumed market rate movements.

Interest Rate Exposure.

Our exposure to market risk for
changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt
obligations, which are denominated in U.S. dollars. In
addition, we use interest rate swaps to either lock in or limit
the variability in the interest rates to manage the mix of fixed
and floating rate debt obligations. An instantaneous, one
percentage point decrease in interest rates across all
maturities and applicable yield curves would increase the fair
value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions at
both December 31, 2003 and 2002 by approximately
$500 million. This analysis does not reflect the effect
that declining interest rates would have on other items, such as
new borrowings, nor the favorable impact they would have on
interest expense and cash payments for interest. Since a
significant portion of our debt is at fixed rates, changes in
market interest rates would not significantly impact operating
results until and unless our fixed rate debt would need to be
refinanced at maturity.

We are also exposed to interest rate market risk
because we have approximately $752 million of restricted
funds held in trust funds and escrow accounts included as a
component of other long-term assets in our consolidated balance
sheet. These funds are generally restricted for future capital
expenditures and closure, post-closure and remedial activities
at our disposal facilities and are therefore invested in high
quality, liquid instruments including money market accounts and
U.S. government agency debt securities. Because of the
short-terms of these investments, we believe that our exposure
to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is
insignificant.


Currency Rate Exposure.

From time to time, we have used
foreign currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency
translation on cash flows on intercompany foreign-currency
denominated debt. There would be no material impact if there
were an instantaneous 10% decrease in foreign exchange rates at
either December 31, 2003 or December 31, 2002.

Commodities Price Exposure.

We market recycled waste paper
products such as ONP and OCC from our material recovery
facilities. We enter into financial fiber swaps to mitigate the
variability in cash flows from a portion of these sales. Under
these swap agreements, we pay a floating index price and receive
a fixed price for a fixed period of time. We record changes in
the fair value of these fiber swap agreements not designated as
hedges immediately to earnings. All derivative transactions are
subject to our risk management policy which governs the type of
instruments that may be used and our risk exposure limits. An
instantaneous 10% increase in OCC and ONP prices would decrease
the fair value of our hedges by approximately $10 million
on both December 31, 2003 and 2002. This analysis excludes
the underlying physical commodity sales positions that are being
hedged.

See Notes 2 and 7 to the consolidated
financial statements for further discussion of the use of and
accounting for derivative instruments.


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data.

INDEX TO

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Waste
Management, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Waste Management, Inc. (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and
the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for the years then
ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. The
consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year
ended December 31, 2001 were audited by other auditors who
have ceased operations and whose report dated February 25,
2002 expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements before
the restatement adjustments and disclosures described below and
in Notes 2, 6 and 20.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the 2003 and 2002 consolidated
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of Waste
Management, Inc. at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States.

As discussed in Note 19 to the consolidated
financial statements, during 2003 the Company adopted relevant
portions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation
No. 46,

“Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities.”

As discussed in Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements, effective January 1,
2003, the Company (i) changed its method of accounting for
major repairs and maintenance costs and annual outage costs,
(ii) changed its method of accounting for loss contracts
and (iii) adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (“SFAS”) No. 143,

“Accounting
for Asset Retirement Obligations”

(“SFAS 143”). As discussed in Note 6 to the
consolidated financial statements, effective January 1,
2002 the Company adopted SFAS No. 142,

“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”

(“SFAS 142”).

As discussed above, the consolidated financial
statements of the Company for the year ended December 31,
2001, were audited by other auditors who have ceased operations.
However, the Company made certain adjustments and disclosures to
the 2001 financial statements to conform with the current
year’s presentation or to comply with the adoption
requirements of new accounting pronouncements, as follows:

(i)

As described in Note 2, the 2001
    consolidated financial statements have been revised to include
    the pro forma disclosures required by the Company’s
    changes in its methods of accounting for major repairs and
    maintenance and annual outage costs, loss contracts, and asset
    retirement obligations. Our procedures with respect to the
    disclosures in Note 2 regarding 2001 included
    (

a

) agreeing the previously reported income before
    cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (in total
    and the related earnings per share amounts) to the previously
    issued consolidated financial statements and agreeing the
    adjustments, which arose from applying the Company’s prior
    accounting policies, to the Company’s underlying records
    obtained from management, (

b

) agreeing the
    pro forma effect of applying SFAS 143 to an analysis
    prepared by management and (

c

) testing the
    mathematical accuracy of the reconciliation of pro forma
    income to previously reported income before cumulative effect of
    changes in accounting principles and the related earnings per
    share amounts.

(ii)

As described in Note 6, the 2001
    consolidated financial statements have been revised to include
    the transitional and other disclosures required by
    SFAS 142, which the Company adopted as of January 1,
    2002. Our procedures with respect to the disclosures in
    Note 6 regarding 2001 included (

a

) agreeing the
    previously reported net income (in total and the related
    earnings per share amounts) to the previously issued
    consolidated financial statements and the adjustments to those
    amounts representing amortization


expense (including any related tax effects)
    recognized in 2001 related to goodwill and negative goodwill to
    the Company’s underlying records obtained from management,
    (

b

) testing the mathematical accuracy of the
    reconciliation of adjusted net income to previously reported net
    income and the related earnings-per-share amounts and (

c

)
    agreeing 2001 amortization expense for other intangible assets
    to the Company’s underlying records obtained from
    management.

(iii)

As described in Note 20, the Company changed
    the composition of its reportable segments in 2003 and 2002, and
    the amounts in the 2001 consolidated financial statements
    relating to reportable segments have been restated to conform to
    the 2003 composition of reportable segments. We audited the
    adjustments that were applied to restate the disclosures for
    reportable segments reflected in the 2001 consolidated financial
    statements. Our procedures included (

a

) agreeing the
    adjusted amounts of segment gross operating revenues,
    intercompany operating revenues, net operating revenues, income
    from operations, depreciation and amortization, capital
    expenditures and total assets to the Company’s underlying
    records obtained from management, (

b

) testing the
    mathematical accuracy of the reconciliations of segment amounts
    to the consolidated financial statements, and (

c

)
    agreeing goodwill amortization expense to the Company’s
    underlying records obtained from management.

In our opinion, the adjustments and disclosures
described in (i), (ii) and (iii) above are appropriate and
have been properly applied. However, we were not engaged to
audit, review, or apply any procedures to the 2001 consolidated
financial statements of the Company other than with respect to
such adjustments and disclosures and, accordingly, we do not
express an opinion or any other form of assurance on the 2001
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.

Houston, Texas

February 10, 2004


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of
Waste Management, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Waste Management, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, and subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of
December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, cash flows and stockholders’
equity for each of the years in the three year period ended
December 31, 2001. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Waste Management, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three year period ended December 31, 2001, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Houston, Texas

February 25, 2002

THIS IS A COPY OF THE AUDIT REPORT PREVIOUSLY
ISSUED BY ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP IN CONNECTION WITH WASTE
MANAGEMENT, INC.’S FILING ON FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2001. THIS AUDIT REPORT HAS NOT BEEN REISSUED
BY ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP IN CONNECTION WITH THIS FILING ON FORM
10-K. SEE EXHIBIT 23.2 FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share and par value
amounts)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS

(In millions, except per share
amounts)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

(In millions)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

(In millions, except shares in
thousands)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and

1.

Business

The financial statements presented in this report
represent the consolidation of Waste Management, Inc., a
Delaware corporation, its majority-owned subsidiaries and
entities required to be consolidated pursuant to the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation
No. 46,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

(“FIN 46”) (See Note 19). Waste Management,
Inc. is a holding company that conducts all of its operations
through its subsidiaries. When the terms “the
Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”
are used in this document, those terms refer to Waste
Management, Inc. and all of its consolidated subsidiaries. When
we use the term “WMI,” we are referring only to the
parent holding company, and are not including any of the
subsidiaries.

We are the leading provider of integrated waste
services in North America. We provide collection, transfer,
recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services. We are
also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy
facilities in the United States. Our customers include
commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers,
other waste management companies, electric utilities and
governmental entities.

2.

Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies

Principles of consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of WMI and its majority-owned
subsidiaries after elimination of all material intercompany
balances and transactions. Additionally, variable interest
entities where we are the primary beneficiary are consolidated
as required by FIN 46 as discussed in Note 19.
Investments in affiliated companies in which we have a
controlling interest are consolidated for financial reporting
purposes. Investments in affiliated entities in which we do not
have a controlling interest are accounted for under either the
equity method or cost method of accounting, as appropriate.
These investments are regularly reviewed for impairment issues
and propriety of accounting treatment.

Estimates and assumptions

In preparing our financial statements, we make
several estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for
and recognition of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain of
the information that we use is dependent on future events,
cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data
available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on
generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates
are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise
significant judgment, as more fully described in Note 3.

Reclassifications

On January 1, 2003, we adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 145,

Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64,
Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical
Corrections.

SFAS No. 145 requires that gains and
losses from extinguishment of debt be classified as
extraordinary items only if they meet the criteria in Accounting
Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 30,

Reporting the Results of Operations — Reporting the
Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and
Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and
Transactions.

Pursuant to the adoption of
SFAS No. 145, we have reclassified 2002 and 2001
losses on the extinguishment of debt of $3 million and
$2 million, respectively, that had previously been reported
as extraordinary. The impact of this reclassification on the
results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2002
was a $5 million increase in interest expense and a
$2 million decrease in the income tax provision. The impact
of this reclassification on the results of


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

operations for the year ended December 31,
2001 was a $3 million increase in interest expense and a
$1 million decrease in the tax provision.

In March 2002, we adopted a new organizational
structure to align collection, transport, recycling and disposal
resources into market areas, and we reduced the number of layers
of management and consolidated certain administrative and
support functions. During our 2003 planning processes we
determined that certain costs we previously reported as selling,
general and administrative expenses were more appropriately
classified as operating expenses after the adoption of the new
organizational structure. These costs include certain
maintenance and repairs, property taxes, insurance and claims,
rent, utilities, permits and fees. We began reporting these
costs as operating expenses in the first quarter of 2003. In
order to conform the prior period presentation of these costs
with the current period presentation, we have reclassified
$137 million of costs previously reported as selling,
general and administrative expenses for the year ended
December 31, 2002 to operating expenses in the accompanying
consolidated statement of operations. Costs identified for
reclassification are those costs incurred beginning in the
second quarter of 2002, as this was the first full accounting
period that these organizational changes were effective.
Additional disclosures associated with this restructuring are
included in Note 11.

As discussed in Note 10, we carry a broad
range of insurance coverages to protect our assets and
operations from certain risks. We use these insurance programs
to mitigate our risk of loss allowing us to effectively manage
our self-insurance exposure associated with potential claims.
Until December 31, 2003, the recorded liabilities in our
balance sheet for personal liability claims were based on our
estimates of exposure net of insurance recoveries. As of
December 31, 2003 we began recording our gross estimated
obligation associated with these claims as a component of
accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities in our
balance sheet. We are therefore also including approximately
$266 million in estimated insurance recoveries as a
component of current notes and other receivables and other
long-term assets in our December 31, 2003 balance sheet. We
believe this approach provides management and investors with
information more reflective of our total estimated obligations
for claims and our ability to utilize insurance to manage our
exposure to loss. In order to conform the prior year’s
presentation of our assets and liabilities with the current
year’s presentation we have classified $104 million of
estimated insurance recoveries as current notes and other
receivables and $121 million of estimated insurance
recoveries as other long-term assets in the 2002 balance sheet.
In prior presentations, these amounts had been netted against
claim obligations in accrued liabilities and other long-term
liabilities under our former presentation.

Certain reclassifications have also been made in
the 2002 and 2001 consolidated statements of cash flows in order
to conform to the current period presentation.

2003 Accounting Changes

On January 1, 2003, we implemented changes
in our methods of accounting for major repairs and maintenance,
loss contracts and asset retirement obligations. See additional
discussion associated with the nature and impact of these
accounting changes below. We also changed our method of
accounting for our interests in two variable interest entities
on December 31, 2003, as described in Note 19. This
change in accounting did not impact our 2003 income before
cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles and
therefore had no impact on the comparability of our results of
operations as presented. Additionally, our results of operations
for each of these periods would not have been significantly
impacted by the consolidation of these entities as of the
beginning of the earliest year presented. Therefore, the
application of FIN 46 has been excluded from the following
analysis.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

If the accounting changes we implemented during
2003 for major repairs and maintenance, loss contracts and asset
retirement obligations had been effective in 2002 and 2001, the
impact on income before cumulative effect of changes in
accounting principles and earnings per common share (in
millions, except per share amounts) would have been as follows:

Repairs and Maintenance

Through December 31, 2002, we accrued in
advance for major repairs and maintenance expenditures and we
deferred costs associated with annual plant outages at our
waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production
plants. Effective January 1, 2003, we changed our policy
from this method to one that expenses these costs as they are
incurred. In the first quarter of 2003, we recorded
approximately $25 million, net of taxes, or $0.04 per
diluted share, as a credit to cumulative effect of changes in
accounting principles. We believe our current method of
accounting is preferable because it (i) provides operating
results that more clearly reflect the timing and amount of
required expenditures, (ii) more clearly reflects our
assets and liabilities, and (iii) reduces the need to make
additional estimates and assumptions. This change in accounting
principle has had an immaterial impact on our consolidated
results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2003.
However, timing of repair and maintenance expenditures cause
slight fluctuations in operating results between reporting
periods that were not experienced under our previous accounting.

Loss Contracts

Through December 31, 2002, if our customer
contracts that we entered into were projected to have direct
costs greater than revenues over the life of the contract, we
accrued for those future losses. Effective


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

January 1, 2003, we changed our policy from
this method to one that expenses these losses as they are
incurred. In the first quarter of 2003, we recorded
approximately $30 million, net of taxes, or $0.05 per
diluted share, as a credit to cumulative effect of changes in
accounting principles. We believe our current method of
accounting is preferable because it (i) provides operating
results that more clearly reflect the timing and amount of
contract losses generated, (ii) more clearly reflects our
liabilities, and (iii) reduces the need to make additional
estimates and assumptions. The effect of this change in
accounting principle is not material to our results of
operations for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Adoption of
    SFAS No. 143 — Accounting for Asset
    Retirement Obligations

Upon our adoption of SFAS No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,

we recorded
approximately $101 million, including tax benefit, or
$0.17 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2003 as a
charge to cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles.
Substantially all of this charge was related to changes in
accounting for landfill final capping, closure and post-closure
costs. The application of SFAS No. 143 reduced income
before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles for
the year ended December 31, 2003 by approximately
$28 million, net of tax benefit, or $0.05 per diluted
share. The following table summarizes the balance sheet impact
of our initial adoption of SFAS No. 143 and our
landfill and environmental remediation liabilities as of
January 1, 2002 computed on a pro forma basis as if the
provisions of SFAS No. 143 had been applied during all
periods affected (in millions):

(a)

The pro forma computations have been performed
    based on assumptions and interest rates at January 1, 2003,
    the date of adoption of SFAS No. 143.

See further discussion related to the impact of
our adoption of SFAS No. 143 on our accounting policies
under

Landfill Accounting

within this Note.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of
cash on deposit, certificates of deposit, money market accounts,
and investment grade commercial paper purchased with original
maturities of three months or less.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Concentrations of credit risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject us
to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and
cash equivalents, the investments held within our trust funds
and escrow accounts, accounts receivable and derivative
instruments. We place our cash and cash equivalents with high
quality financial institutions and hold high quality debt
instruments in our trust funds and escrow accounts. We also
limit our credit exposure by limiting our investments held with
any one financial institution or in any one debt instrument.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts
receivable are limited because we have a large number of
geographically diverse customers, thus spreading trade credit
risk. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, no single customer
represented greater than 5% of total accounts receivable. We
control credit risk through credit evaluations, credit limits
and monitoring procedures. We perform credit evaluations for
commercial and industrial customers and perform ongoing credit
evaluations of our customers, but generally we do not require
collateral to support accounts receivable. Credit losses are
provided for in the financial statements. Credit risk relating
to derivative instruments results from the fact that we enter
into interest rate and commodity price swap agreements with
various counterparties. However, we regularly monitor our
derivative positions by evaluating the creditworthiness of the
counterparties, all of whom we consider creditworthy, or who
have delivered letters of credit to support their performance.

Trade, notes and other
    receivables

Our receivables are recorded when billed,
advanced or accrued and represent claims against third parties
that will be settled in cash. The carrying value of our
receivables, net of the allowance for doubtful accounts,
represents their estimated net realizable value. We estimate our
allowance for doubtful accounts based on historical collection
trends, type of customer, such as municipal or non-municipal,
the age of outstanding receivables and existing economic
conditions. If events or changes in circumstances indicate that
specific receivable balances may be impaired, further
consideration is given to the collectiblity of those balances
and the allowance is adjusted accordingly. Past-due receivable
balances are written-off when our internal collection efforts
have been unsuccessful in collecting the amount due. Also, we
generally recognize interest income on long-term
interest-bearing notes receivable as the interest accrues under
the terms of the notes.

Property and equipment

Property and equipment are recorded at cost.
Expenditures for major additions and improvements are
capitalized. Minor replacements, maintenance and repairs are
charged to expense as incurred.

Through December 31, 2002, we accrued for
major repair and maintenance expenditures at our waste-to-energy
facilities and our independent power production plants. In the
first quarter of 2003, we changed our method of accounting to
one that expenses these costs as incurred as discussed under

“2003 Accounting Changes

.

”


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

When property and equipment are retired, sold or
otherwise disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are
removed from our accounts and any resulting gain or loss is
included in the results of operations as increases or offsets to
operating expense for the period. Depreciation is provided over
the estimated useful lives of the related assets using the
straight-line method. We assume no salvage value for our
depreciable property and equipment. The estimated useful lives
for significant property and equipment categories are as follows
(in years):

We capitalize certain costs associated with
developing or obtaining internal-use software. These costs
include external direct costs of materials and services used in
developing or obtaining the software and payroll and
payroll-related costs for employees directly associated with the
software development project. For the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002, we capitalized $61 million
and $110 million, respectively, of software development
costs that are primarily related to the development of our
enterprise-wide software systems. We include these costs as
office equipment within furniture and fixtures and depreciate
the software development costs over a period up to five years
once the systems are placed in service.

Leases

We lease certain office space, plant and
equipment for varying periods. Our leases have varying terms.
Some may include renewal or purchase options, escalation
clauses, restrictions, penalties or other obligations that we
consider in determining minimum lease payments. The leases are
classified as either capital leases or operating leases, as
appropriate.

Operating Leases —

Management expects that in the normal
course of business, operating leases will be renewed or replaced
by other leases. Our future operating lease payments, for which
we are contractually obligated as of December 31, 2003, are
disclosed in Note 10.

Capital Leases —

Assets under capital leases are
capitalized using interest rates appropriate at the inception of
each lease and are amortized over the shorter of either the
useful life of the asset in accordance with our policy for owned
assets or the lease term on a straight-line basis. The present
value of the related lease payment is recorded as a debt
obligation. Our future minimum annual capital lease payments are
included in our total future debt obligations as disclosed in
Note 7.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Landfill accounting

Effective January 1, 2003, our method of
accounting for landfill final capping, closure and post-closure
changed as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 143.
With the exception of the accounting for capitalized and future
landfill final capping costs, SFAS No. 143 does not
change basic life-cycle accounting. The table below compares our
historical practices to the method prescribed by
SFAS No. 143.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Business combinations

All acquisitions since January 1, 2000 have
been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. We
allocate the cost of the acquired business to the assets
acquired and the liabilities assumed based on estimates of fair
values thereof. These estimates are revised during the
allocation period as necessary if, and when, information
regarding contingencies becomes available to further define and
quantify assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The allocation
period generally does not exceed one year. To the extent
contingencies


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

such as preacquisition environmental matters,
litigation and related legal fees are resolved or settled during
the allocation period, such items are included in the revised
allocation of the purchase price. After the allocation period,
the effect of changes in such contingencies is included in
results of operations in the periods in which the adjustments
are determined. We do not believe potential differences between
our fair value estimates and actual fair values are material.

In certain business combinations, we agree to pay
additional amounts to sellers contingent upon achievement by the
acquired businesses of certain negotiated goals, such as
targeted revenue levels, targeted disposal volumes or the
issuance of permits for expanded landfill airspace. Contingent
payments, when incurred, are recorded as purchase price
adjustments or compensation expense, as appropriate, based on
the nature of each contingent payment.

Goodwill and other intangible
    assets

Goodwill is the excess of our purchase cost over
the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses. In
accordance with SFAS No. 142,

Accounting for
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,

we do not amortize
goodwill from purchases completed after June 30, 2001.
Through December 31, 2001, we continued to amortize
goodwill associated with purchase business combinations
completed on or before June 30, 2001. All amortization of
goodwill ceased January 1, 2002.

Other intangible assets consist primarily of
customer contracts, customer lists, covenants not-to-compete,
licenses and permits (other than landfill permits, as all
landfill related intangible assets are combined with landfill
tangible assets and amortized using our landfill amortization
policy). Other intangible assets are recorded at cost and are
primarily amortized on a straight-line basis. Customer contracts
and customer lists are generally amortized over five to seven
years. Covenants not-to-compete are amortized over the term of
the noncompete covenant, which is generally three to five years.
Licenses, permits and other contracts are amortized over the
definitive terms of the related agreements. If the underlying
agreement does not contain definitive terms and the useful life
is determined to be indefinite, the asset is not amortized. As
of December 31, 2003, we have approximately $3 million
of other intangible assets that are not amortized. For further
discussion, see Note 6.

Asset impairments

Long-lived assets consist primarily of property
and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. Property,
equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill are carried
on financial statements based on their cost less accumulated
depreciation or amortization. The recoverability of these assets
is tested whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Typical
indicators that an asset may be impaired include:


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

•

A current expectation that, more likely than not,
    a long-lived asset or asset group will be sold or otherwise
    disposed of significantly before the end of its previously
    estimated useful life.

If any of these or other indicators occur, the
asset is reviewed to determine whether there has been an
impairment. An impairment loss is recorded as the difference
between the carrying amount and fair value of the asset. See
Note 3 for further discussion on related estimates and
assumptions. There are other considerations for impairments of
landfills and goodwill, as described below.

Landfills

—
There are certain indicators listed above that require
significant judgment and understanding of the waste industry
when applied to landfill development or expansion projects. For
example, a regulator may initially deny a landfill expansion
permit application though the expansion permit is ultimately
granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste
from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted
landfill airspace. Therefore, certain events could occur in the
ordinary course of business and not necessarily be considered
indicators of impairment due to the unique nature of the waste
industry.

Goodwill

—
We assess whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis. Upon
determining the existence of goodwill impairment, we measure
that impairment based on the amount by which the book value of
goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. The implied fair value
of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of a
reporting unit’s identifiable assets and liabilities from
the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole, as if that
reporting unit had just been acquired and the purchase price
were being initially allocated. Additional impairment
assessments may be performed on an interim basis if we encounter
events or changes in circumstances, such as those listed above,
that would indicate that, more likely than not, the book value
of goodwill has been impaired.

Restricted funds

Restricted funds are included in other
non-current assets and consist principally of funds held in
trust for the construction of various facilities, funds
deposited in connection with landfill closure, post-closure and
remedial obligations and insurance escrow deposits.

Of the restricted funds balance of
$752 million at December 31, 2003, $465 million
relates to industrial revenue bonds issued primarily for the
construction of collection and disposal facilities. Proceeds
from these financing arrangements are directly deposited into
trust funds, and we do not have the ability to use the funds in
regular operating activities. Accordingly, these amounts are
reported as an investing activity when the cash is released from
the trust funds and as a financing activity when the industrial
revenue bonds are repaid out of our cash balances. In 2003, 2002
and 2001 proceeds from tax-exempt borrowings, net of principal
payments made directly from trust funds, were $456 million,
$424 million and $174 million, respectively. We
treated these transactions as non-cash financing activities in
our statements of cash flows.

Historically, proceeds from the issuance of
industrial revenue bonds held in trust funds have been invested
in cash and cash equivalents. Beginning in the fourth quarter of
2003 we determined that it would be beneficial to invest these
funds in longer term, higher yield debt instruments. As of
December 31, 2003, $397 million of our trust fund
assets funded by industrial revenue bonds and held for future
capital expenditures were invested in U.S. government
agency debt securities with maturities ranging from less than
one year to three years. For the year ended December 31,
2003, our realized and unrealized gains on these investments
have not been material to our results of operations and
financial position.

At several of our landfills, we provide financial
assurance by depositing cash into escrow accounts or trust funds
that are legally restricted for purposes of settling closure,
post-closure and remedial obligations. The restricted funds
balance related to the fair value of these escrow accounts and
trust funds was approximately $186 million at
December 31, 2003, and is primarily included as other
long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheet. We are
considering the impact that implementing FIN 46 may have on
our current accounting practices related to these trust funds
and escrow accounts. See Note 23 for disclosure of our
current


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

conclusions. Balances maintained in these trust
funds and escrow accounts will fluctuate based on
(i) changes in statutory requirements; (ii) the
ongoing use of funds for qualifying closure, post-closure and
remedial activities; (iii) acquisitions or divestitures of
landfills; and (iv) changes in the fair value of the
underlying financial instruments.

The remaining restricted funds balance at
December 31, 2003 is primarily related to funds held in
trust to meet future principal and interest payments required
under certain of our debt obligations.

Derivative financial
    instruments

SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

, as amended,
became effective for the Company on January 1, 2001.
SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting
standards requiring that all derivative instruments, including
certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, be
recorded as either assets or liabilities measured at fair value.
We estimate the future prices of commodity fiber products and
obtain current valuations of interest rate and foreign currency
hedging instruments from third parties to obtain these fair
values. SFAS No. 133 also requires that changes in a
derivative’s fair value be recognized currently in earnings
unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. Adoption of
SFAS No. 133 resulted in a gain, net of tax, of
approximately $2 million in the first quarter of 2001,
which is reflected as a cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle.

We use derivative financial instruments to manage
our interest rate, commodity price and foreign currency
exposure. The estimated fair values of derivatives used to hedge
risks fluctuate over time. These changes in fair values should
be viewed in relation to the underlying hedging transaction and
to the overall management of our exposure to fluctuations in
interest rates, commodity prices and foreign exchange rates.

The fair value of derivatives is included in
other current assets, other long-term assets, accrued
liabilities or other long-term liabilities, as appropriate. The
offsetting amounts for those derivatives designated as fair
value hedges are recorded as adjustments to the carrying values
of the hedged items. Upon termination, this carrying value
adjustment is amortized to earnings over the remaining life of
the hedged item. The offsetting amounts for those derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other
comprehensive income within the equity section of our balance
sheet. Upon termination, the associated balance in other
comprehensive income is amortized to earnings as the hedged cash
flows occur. Any ineffectiveness present in either fair value or
cash flow hedges is recognized immediately in earnings without
offset.

As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the net
fair value and earnings impact of our commodity and foreign
currency derivatives were immaterial to our financial position
and results of operations. We did not hold either type of
derivative instrument during the year ended December 31,
2001. As discussed in Note 7, our use of interest rate
derivatives to manage our fixed to floating rate position has
had a material impact on our operating cash flows, carrying
value of debt and interest expense during these periods.

Self-insurance reserves and
    recoveries

We have retained a portion of the risks related
to our automobile, general liability and workers’
compensation insurance programs. The exposure for unpaid claims
and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported
losses, is estimated with the assistance of external actuaries.
The gross estimated liability associated with settling unpaid
claims is included in accrued liabilities if expected to be
settled within one year, or otherwise is included in other
long-term liabilities. Estimated insurance recoveries related to
recorded liabilities are reflected as current notes and other
receivables or other long-term assets as appropriate.

Foreign currency

The functional currency of our operations outside
the United States is the local currency of the country in which
we operate. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are
translated to U.S. dollars using the


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

exchange rate at the balance sheet date. Revenues
and expenses are translated to U.S. dollars using an
average exchange rate during the period. The resulting
translation difference is reflected as a component of other
comprehensive income.

Revenue recognition

We recognize revenues when all four criteria
noted below have been satisfied:

We bill for certain services prior to
performance. Such services include, among others, certain
residential contracts that are billed on a quarterly basis and
equipment rentals. These advance billings are included in
deferred revenues and recognized as revenue in the period earned
for services provided.

Capitalized interest

Interest is capitalized on certain projects under
development, including landfill projects and probable landfill
expansion projects, and on certain assets under construction,
including internal-use software, operating landfills and
waste-to-energy facilities. The capitalization of interest for
operating landfills is based on the costs incurred on discrete
landfill cell construction projects, plus an allocated portion
of the common landfill site costs. The common site costs include
the development costs of a landfill project or the purchase
price of an operating landfill, and the ongoing infrastructure
costs benefiting the lifecycle of the landfill. Under our
current accounting practices cell construction costs include the
construction of cell liners during the operating life of the
site. Prior to our adoption of SFAS No. 143, final
capping costs incurred during the operating life of the site
were also included as a component of these cell construction
costs. During 2003, 2002 and 2001, total interest costs were
$461 million, $487 million and $560 million,
respectively, of which $22 million, $20 million and
$16 million, respectively, were capitalized, primarily for
landfill construction costs.

Income taxes

Deferred income taxes are based on the difference
between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
liabilities. The deferred income tax provision represents the
change during the reporting period in the deferred tax assets
and deferred tax liabilities, net of the effect of acquisitions
and dispositions. Deferred tax assets include tax loss and
credit carryforwards and are reduced by a valuation allowance
if, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that
some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized.

Additionally, with respect to income taxes, we
assume the deductibility of certain costs in our income tax
filings and estimate the future recovery of deferred tax assets.

Accounting for stock options

We account for our stock-based compensation using
the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB Opinion
No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

, as
amended. Pursuant to APB Opinion No. 25, we do not
recognize compensation cost for our stock options because the
number of shares potentially issuable and the exercise price,
which is equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock
on the date of grant, are fixed.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, we
had approximately 49.2 million, 44.5 million and
41.5 million stock options and warrants outstanding,
respectively. The weighted average fair value per share of stock
options granted during 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $7.53, $12.16 and
$10.83, respectively. See Note 15 for further discussion on
our common stock options and warrants.

The following schedule reflects the pro forma
impact on net income and earnings per common share of accounting
for our stock option grants using SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

, which would
result in the recognition of compensation expense for the fair
value of stock option grants (in millions, except per share
amounts).

The fair value of our stock option grants in the
table above was estimated utilizing the Black-Scholes option
pricing model. The following weighted average assumptions were
used: dividend yield of 0%; risk-free interest rates, which vary
for each grant, ranging from 2.77% to 6.19%; expected life of
four to seven years for all grants; and stock price volatility
ranging from 23.7% to 50.4%. Black-Scholes is a formula that
calculates an estimated value of stock options based on
appreciation and interest rate assumptions. Therefore, the fair
value calculation of a stock option using Black-Scholes is not
necessarily indicative of the actual value of a stock option.

Contingent Liabilities

We estimate the amount of potential exposure we
may have with respect to claims, assessments and litigation in
accordance with SFAS No. 5,

Accounting for
Contingencies

. We are subject to an array of laws and
regulations relating to the protection of the environment. We
provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation
obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably
estimated. Our estimations are based on several factors, as
discussed in Note 3. We are also party to pending or
threatened legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters in
various jurisdictions. It is not always possible to predict the
outcome of litigation, as it is subject to many uncertainties.
Additionally, it is not always possible for management to make a
meaningful estimate of the potential loss or range of loss
associated with such litigation.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

3.

Use of Estimates and Assumptions

The most difficult, subjective and complex
estimates and the assumptions that deal with the greatest amount
of uncertainty that we make in preparing our financial
statements relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental
liabilities and asset impairments, as described below.

Landfills

—
The cost estimates for final capping, closure and post-closure
activities at landfills for which we have responsibility are
estimated based on our interpretations of current requirements
and proposed or anticipated regulatory changes. We also estimate
additional costs, pursuant to the requirements of
SFAS No. 143, based on the amount a third party would
charge us to perform such activities even when we expect to
perform these activities internally. Additionally, we estimate
the airspace to be consumed related to each final capping event
and the timing of each final capping event and closure and
post-closure activities. Because landfill final capping, closure
and post-closure obligations are measured at estimated fair
value using present value techniques, changes in the estimated
timing of future landfill final capping and closure and
post-closure activities would have an effect on these
liabilities, related assets and results of operations.

•

Personnel are actively working to obtain land use
    and local, state or provincial approvals for an expansion of an
    existing landfill;

•

It is probable that the approvals will be
    received within the normal application and processing time
    periods for approvals in the jurisdiction in which the landfill
    is located;


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

These criteria are initially evaluated by our
field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to
identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. However,
our policy provides that, based on the facts and circumstances
of a specific landfill, if these criteria are not met, inclusion
of unpermitted airspace may still be allowed. In these
circumstances, inclusion must be approved through a
landfill-specific review process that includes approval of the
Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 84 landfill
sites with expansions at December 31, 2003, 25 landfills
required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of
the unpermitted airspace. Approximately two-thirds of these
landfills required approval by the Chief Financial Officer
because legal, community, or other issues could impede the
expansion process, while the remaining were primarily because
the permit application processes would not meet the one and five
year requirements, which in many cases were due to
state-specific permitting procedures. When we include the
expansion airspace in our calculations of available airspace, we
also include the projected costs for development, final capping,
and closure and post-closure of the expansion in the
amortization basis of the landfill.

After determining the costs at our landfills,
including final capping costs and closure and post-closure
costs, and the available and probable expansion airspace
relating to such costs, we then determine the per ton rates that
will be expensed. We look at factors such as the waste stream,
geography and rate of compaction, among others, to determine the
number of tons necessary to fill the available and probable
expansion airspace relating to these costs and activities. We
then divide costs by the corresponding number of tons, giving us
the rate per ton to expense for each activity as waste is
received and deposited at the landfill. We calculate per ton
amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with
each final capping event, for assets related to closure and
post-closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or
to be capitalized in the future.

It is possible that actual results could
ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our
estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or
related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than
actual results, or our belief that we will receive an expansion
permit changes adversely in a significant manner, the costs of
the landfill, including the costs incurred in the pursuit of the
expansion, may be subject to impairment testing, as described
below. Lower profitability may be experienced due to higher
amortization rates, higher closure and post-closure rates, and
higher expenses or asset impairments related to the removal of
previously included expansion airspace. Additionally, if it is
determined that the likelihood of receiving the expansion permit
has become remote, the capitalized costs related to the
expansion effort are expensed immediately.

Environmental Remediation
Liabilities

— Under current
laws and regulations, we may have liability for environmental
damage caused by operations, or for damage caused by conditions
that existed before we acquired a site. Remedial costs are all
costs relating to the remedy of any identified situation that
occurs by natural causes or human error not expected in the
normal course of business. These costs include potentially
responsible party (“PRP”) investigation, settlement,
certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly
associated with site investigation and clean up, such as
materials and incremental internal costs directly related to the
remedy. We estimate costs required to remediate sites where
liability is probable based on site-specific facts and
circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that
require remediation, considering


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

whether we were an owner, operator, transporter,
or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to
the site and the number of years we were connected with the
site. Next, we review the same information with respect to other
named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the cost for the likely
remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or
by third party environmental engineers or other service
providers. Internally developed estimates are based on:

See Note 4 for further discussion.

Asset
Impairments

— If significant
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable, we
perform a test of recoverability by comparing the carrying value
of the asset or asset group to its undiscounted expected future
cash flows. Cash flow projections are sometimes based on a group
of assets, rather than a single asset. If cash flows cannot be
separately and independently identified for a single asset, we
will determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group
of assets for which we can identify the projected cash flow. If
the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected
future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the
fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value.
Fair value is determined by either an actual third-party
evaluation or an internally developed discounted projected cash
flow analysis of the asset or asset group. If the fair value of
an asset or asset group is determined to be less than the
carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in
the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the
impairment indicator occurs. Several impairment indicators are
beyond our control, and cannot be predicted with any certainty
whether or not they will occur. Estimating future cash flows
requires significant judgment and projections may vary from cash
flows eventually realized. Also, there are other considerations
for impairments of landfills and goodwill as discussed in
Note 2.

Actual results could differ materially from the
estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our
financial statements.

4.

Landfill and Environmental Remediation
    Liabilities

Landfill

We have material financial commitments for final
capping, closure and post-closure obligations with respect to
our landfills. We develop our estimates of these obligations
using input from our operations personnel, engineers and
accountants. Our estimates are based on our interpretation of
current requirements and proposed regulatory changes and are
intended to approximate fair value under the provisions of SFAS
No. 143. Absent quoted market prices, the estimate of fair
value should be based on the best available information,
including the results of present value techniques. In general,
we contract with third parties to fulfill most of our
obligations for final capping, closure and post-closure.
Accordingly, the fair value of these obligations is based upon
quoted and actual prices paid for similar work. However, we
intend to perform some of these activities using internal
resources. Where internal resources are expected to be used to
fulfill an asset retirement obligation, we have added a profit
margin to the estimated cost of such services to better reflect
the fair value of the obligation. When we then perform these
services internally, the added profit margin is recognized as a
component of operating income in the period earned. An estimate
of fair value should include the price that marketplace
participants are able to receive for bearing the uncertainties
in cash flows. However, when using discounted cash flow
techniques, reliable estimates of market premiums may not be
obtainable. In


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

the waste industry, there is no market for
selling the responsibility for final capping, closure and
post-closure obligations independent of selling the landfill in
its entirety. Accordingly, we do not believe that it is possible
to develop a methodology to reliably estimate a market risk
premium and have therefore excluded any such market risk premium
from our determination of expected cash flows for landfill asset
retirement obligations.

Once we have determined the final capping,
closure and post-closure costs, we then inflate those costs to
the expected time of payment and discount those expected future
costs back to present value. During 2003, we have inflated these
costs in current dollars until the expected time of payment
using an inflation rate of 2.5%, and have discounted these costs
to present value using a credit-adjusted, risk-free discount
rate of 7.25%. The credit-adjusted, risk-free rate is based on
the risk-free interest rate on obligations of similar maturity
adjusted for our own credit rating. Changes in our
credit-adjusted, risk-free rate do not change recorded
liabilities, but subsequently recognized obligations are
measured using the revised credit-adjusted, risk-free rate.

We record the estimated fair value of final
capping, closure and post-closure liabilities for our landfills
based on the capacity consumed through the current period. The
liability and corresponding asset are recorded on a per-ton
basis as waste is accepted and deposited at our landfills. We
assess the appropriateness of our recorded balances annually,
unless there are indications that a more frequent review is
appropriate. Significant changes in inflation rates or the
amount or timing of future final capping, closure and
post-closure cost estimates typically result in both (i) a
current adjustment to the recorded liability (and corresponding
adjustment to the landfill asset) based on the landfill’s
capacity consumed to date, and (ii) a change in liability
and asset amounts to be recorded prospectively over the
remaining capacity of the landfill. Any changes related to the
capitalized and future cost of the landfill assets are then
recognized in accordance with our amortization policy, which
would generally result in amortization expense being recognized
prospectively over the remaining capacity of the final capping
event or the landfill, as appropriate.

The estimated fair value of each final capping
event will be fully accrued when the tons associated with such
capping event have been disposed in the landfill. Additionally,
the estimated fair value of total future final capping, closure
and post-closure costs will be fully accrued for each landfill
at the time the site discontinues accepting waste and is closed.
Closure and post-closure accruals consider estimates for methane
gas control, leachate management and ground-water monitoring and
other operational and maintenance costs to be incurred after the
site discontinues accepting waste, which is generally expected
to be for a period of up to thirty years after final site
closure. Daily maintenance activities, which include many of
these costs, are expensed as incurred during the operating life
of the landfill. Daily maintenance activities include leachate
disposal; surface water, groundwater, and methane gas monitoring
and maintenance; other pollution control activities; mowing and
fertilizing the landfill final cap; fence and road maintenance;
and third party inspection and reporting costs. For purchased
disposal sites, we assess and record the estimated fair value of
final capping, closure and post-closure liabilities at the time
we assume such responsibilities. Such liabilities are based on
the percentage of airspace consumed related to such obligations
as of the date we assumed the responsibility. Thereafter, we
account for the landfill and related final capping, closure and
post-closure obligations consistent with the policy described
above.

Interest accretion on final capping, closure and
post-closure liabilities is recorded using the effective
interest method and is recorded as final capping, closure and
post-closure expense, which is included in operating costs and
expenses on the income statement.

In the United States, the final capping, closure
and post-closure requirements are established by the EPA and
applied on a state-by-state basis. The costs to comply with
these requirements could change materially as a result of
legislation or regulation.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Environmental Remediation

We routinely review and evaluate sites that
require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the
likely remedy based on several estimates and assumptions as
described in Note 3. These estimates are sometimes a range
of “reasonably possible” outcomes. “Reasonably
possible” outcomes are those outcomes that are considered
more than remote and less than likely. In cases where our
estimates are a range, we use the amount within the range that
constitutes our best estimate. If no amount within the range
appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use the
amounts that are the low ends of such ranges in accordance with
SFAS No. 5 and its interpretations. If we used the
high ends of such ranges, our aggregate potential liability
would be approximately $170 million higher on a discounted
basis than the estimate recorded in the consolidated financial
statements as of December 31, 2003.

As of December 31, 2003, we had been
notified that we are a PRP in connection with 71 locations
listed on the EPA’s National Priorities List. Through
various acquisitions, we have come to own 17 of these sites that
were initially developed by others. We are working with the
government to characterize or remediate identified site problems
and have either agreed with other legally liable parties on an
arrangement for sharing the costs of remediation or are pursuing
resolution of an allocation formula. We generally expect to
receive any amounts due from these parties at, or near, the time
that we make remedial expenditures. Claims have been made
against us at another 54 sites we do not own where we have been
an operator, transporter or generator of waste. These claims are
at different procedural stages under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980,
as amended, which is also known as Superfund. At some of these
sites, our liability is well defined as a consequence of a
governmental decision and an agreement among liable parties as
to the allocation of costs. At others where no remedy has been
selected or the liable parties have been unable to agree on an
appropriate allocation, our future costs are uncertain. Any of
these matters could have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial statements.

Estimating our degree of responsibility for
remediation of a particular site is inherently difficult and
determining the method and ultimate cost of remediation requires
that a number of assumptions be made. Our ultimate
responsibility may differ materially from current estimates. It
is possible that technological, regulatory or enforcement
developments, the results of environmental studies, the
inability to identify other PRPs, the inability of other PRPs to
contribute to the settlements of such liabilities, or other
factors could require us to record additional liabilities that
could be material. Additionally, our ongoing review of our
remediation liabilities could result in revisions that could
cause upward or downward adjustments to income from operations.
These adjustments could be material in any given period.

Where we believe that both the amount of a
particular environmental remediation liability and the timing of
the payments are reliably determinable, we inflate the cost in
current dollars (2.5% at December 31, 2003 and 2.0% at
December 31, 2002) until the expected time of payment and
discount the cost to present value using a risk-free discount
rate with a term approximating the weighted average period until
settlement of the underlying obligation (4.25% at
December 31, 2003 and 5.0% at December 31, 2002). We
determine the discount rate, which is based on the rates for
United States Treasury bonds, and the inflation rate on an
annual basis unless interim changes would significantly impact
our results of operations. For remedial liabilities that have
been discounted, we include interest accretion, based on the
effective interest method, in operating costs and expenses. The
portion of our recorded environmental remedial liabilities that
has never been subject to inflation or discounting was
approximately $60 million and $66 million at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Had we not
discounted any portion of our environmental remedial liability,
the amount recorded would have been increased by approximately
$44 million at December 31, 2003.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Liabilities for landfill and environmental
remediation costs are presented in the table below (in millions):

The changes to landfill and environmental
remediation liabilities for the year ended December 31,
2003 and 2002 are as follows (in millions):

Anticipated payments of currently identified
environmental remediation liabilities for the next five years
and thereafter as measured in current dollars are reflected
below (in millions). Our recorded liabilities as of
December 31, 2003 include the impact of inflating these
costs based on our expectations for cash settlement and
discounting these costs to present value.

We have, from time to time, filed suit against
insurance carriers seeking reimbursement for environmentally
related remedial, defense and tort claim costs at a number of
sites. The majority of these claims have been settled. We are
actively pursuing the remaining claims. For 2002, and 2001 we
recorded approximately $1 million, and $105 million,
respectively, of such recoveries from insurance carriers. No
material recoveries were recorded in 2003. These recoveries are
included as reductions to operating costs and expenses.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

5.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment at December 31
consisted of the following (in millions):

Depreciation and amortization expense for
property and equipment for 2003, 2002 and 2001 was
$1.23 billion, $1.19 billion and $1.18 billion,
respectively. In 2002, depreciation and amortization expense,
which includes amortization on assets recorded as capital
leases, was comprised of $778 million for the depreciation
of tangible property and equipment and $409 million for the
amortization of landfill airspace. In 2003, depreciation and
amortization expense, which includes amortization on assets
recorded as capital leases, consisted of $798 million for
the depreciation of tangible property and equipment and
$429 million for the amortization of landfill airspace.

6.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Our other intangible assets as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002 were comprised of the following
(in millions):

Landfill operating permits are not presented
above and are recognized on a combined basis with other landfill
assets and amortized using our landfill amortization method.
Amortization expense for other intangible assets was
$38 million, $35 million and $37 million for
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The intangible asset
amortization expense estimated as of December 31, 2003, for
the five years following 2003 is as follows (in millions):


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Amortization expense for goodwill and other
intangible assets was $193 million for 2001. In accordance
with SFAS No. 142, we did not amortize goodwill that
arose from purchases of businesses completed after June 30,
2001. We continued, through December 31, 2001, the
amortization of goodwill that was recorded prior to July 1,
2001. Amortization of goodwill ceased on January 1, 2002.

We incurred no impairment of goodwill upon our
initial adoption of SFAS No. 142 in 2002, or as a
result of our annual goodwill impairment tests in 2003 and 2002.
However, there can be no assurance that goodwill will not be
impaired at any time in the future. Additionally, adopting
SFAS No. 141,

Accounting for Business
Combinations,

required us to write-off net negative goodwill
of approximately $2 million, which was recorded as a credit
to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in the
first quarter of 2002. During interim periods in 2002 or 2003,
we did not encounter any events or changes in circumstances that
indicated that impairment was more likely than not.

The following schedule reflects the 2001 adjusted
net income (excluding goodwill and negative goodwill
amortization) as compared to the results of operations for
December 31, 2003 and 2002 (in millions, except per share
amounts).


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

7.

Debt and Interest Rate Derivatives

Debt

Debt at December 31 consisted of the
following (in millions):

The schedule of anticipated debt payments
(including the current portion) for the next five years and
thereafter is as follows (in millions):


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2003, we had a
three-year, $650 million syndicated revolving credit
facility and a five-year, $1.75 billion syndicated
revolving credit facility. The three-year revolver matures in
June 2005 and the five-year revolver matures in June 2006. At
December 31, 2003, no borrowings were outstanding under our
revolving credit facilities and we had unused and available
credit capacity under these facilities of approximately
$792 million. The unused and available capacity under these
facilities was approximately $770 million at
December 31, 2002.

As of December 31, 2003, we are required to
maintain the following financial covenants under our revolving
credit facilities: (i) an interest coverage ratio;
(ii) total debt to EBITDA ratio; and (iii) minimum net
worth, all as defined in the credit facilities solely for the
purpose of determining compliance with the covenants. The
interest coverage ratio requires that at the end of any fiscal
quarter we will not permit the ratio of (A) our
consolidated net income plus interest expense and income taxes
(“EBIT”) for the four fiscal quarters then ending to
(B) consolidated total interest expense for such period, to
be less than 3 to 1. The total debt to EBITDA covenant requires
that at the end of any fiscal quarter, we will not permit the
ratio of (A) all indebtedness and certain contingent
liabilities such as financial guarantees to (B) EBIT plus
depreciation and amortization expense (“EBITDA”) for
the four fiscal quarters then ending to exceed 3.25 to 1. Our
minimum net worth covenant restricts us from allowing
stockholders’ equity to be less than $3.5 billion plus
75% of our cumulative consolidated net income for each fiscal
quarter, beginning with the first fiscal quarter ended
March 31, 2001. The credit facilities requiring compliance
with these financial covenants state that the calculations must
be based on generally accepted accounting principles promulgated
by the FASB and applied by us during the latest fiscal year
before the date of the facilities, or December 31, 2000 and
2001. Therefore, our adoption or implementation of accounting
pronouncements or interpretations effective after those dates
does not impact the calculation of the financial covenants
defined above. We are in compliance with all covenants under our
revolving credit facilities and all other debt instruments.

As part of our operations, and in connection with
issuances of tax-exempt bonds, we use letters of credit to
support our bonding and funding needs. In order to increase our
letter of credit availability, on June 30, 2003 we entered
into a five-year, $15 million letter of credit and term
loan agreement, a seven-year, $175 million letter of credit
and term loan agreement, and a ten-year, $105 million
letter of credit and term loan agreement, which expire in June
2008, 2010, and 2013, respectively (collectively, the “LC
and term loan agreements”). At December 31, 2003,
letters of credit were issued and outstanding for
$284 million of credit capacity under these agreements. In
December 2003, we entered into a five-year, $350 million
letter of credit facility. As of December 31, 2003,
approximately $349 million of letters of credit were
outstanding under this facility.

As of December 31, 2003, we had letters of
credit in the aggregate amount of approximately
$2.4 billion (of which approximately $1.6 billion are
issued under the revolving credit facilities, $284 million
are issued under the LC and term loan agreements,
$349 million are issued under the letter of credit facility
and the remainder are issued under other various lines of
credit). These letters of credit generally have terms allowing
for automatic renewal after one year. In the event of an
unreimbursed draw on a letter of credit, we have the ability to
convert that amount into a term loan for the remaining term
under its respective agreement or facility.

Our 5.75% convertible subordinated notes due
2005 are subordinated to all of our existing and future senior
indebtedness. Each note bears cash interest at the rate of two
percent per annum of the $1,000 principal amount at maturity,
payable semi-annually. The stated discount is $282.20. At the
option of the holder, each note was redeemable for cash by us on
March 15, 2000 at $843.03 along with the related accrued
interest. The notes have been callable by us since
March 15, 2000 for cash at the stated issue price plus
accrued stated discount and accrued interest through the date of
redemption. In addition, each note is convertible at any time
prior to maturity into approximately 18.9 shares of our
common stock, subject to adjustment upon the


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

occurrence of certain events. Upon any such
conversion, we have the option of paying cash equal to the
market value of the shares which would otherwise be issuable.

Our debt balances are generally unsecured, except
for approximately $549 million of the tax-exempt project
bonds outstanding at December 31, 2003 that are issued by
certain of our subsidiaries within our Wheelabrator Group and
secured by the related subsidiaries’ assets, with a
carrying value of approximately $720 million, and the
related subsidiaries’ future revenue. Additionally, our
consolidated variable interest entities have approximately
$171 million of outstanding borrowings that are
collateralized by assets of those entities. These assets have a
carrying value of approximately $400 million. See
Note 19 for further discussion.

Interest rate swaps

We manage the interest rate risk of our debt
portfolio principally by using interest rate derivatives to
achieve a desired position of fixed and floating rate debt,
which was approximately 63% fixed and 37% floating at
December 31, 2003. Interest rate swap agreements that were
outstanding as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 are set forth
in the table below (dollars in millions):

In 2002, we elected to terminate several interest
rate swap agreements with a notional amount of
$2.95 billion prior to the scheduled maturities and
received cash of $200 million (which is comprised of
$166 million for the fair value of the swaps that were
terminated and $34 million of accrued but unpaid interest
receivable) from the counterparties to the interest rate swaps.
During the first and second quarters of 2003, we terminated
several additional interest rate swap agreements with a notional
amount of $2.35 billion prior to the scheduled maturities
and received cash of $117 million (which was comprised of
$109 million for the fair value of the swaps terminated and
$8 million of interest receivable) from the counterparties
to the interest rate swaps. We designated these swap agreements
as fair value hedges, and as such the unamortized adjustment to
long-term debt for the change in fair value of the swaps remains
classified with long-term debt and will be amortized over the
remaining life of the underlying debt. The proceeds received
from the termination of the interest rate swap agreements have
been classified as a change in other assets or other liabilities
within operating activities in the accompanying consolidated
statements of cash flows.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Fair value hedge accounting for interest rate
swap contracts increased the carrying value of debt instruments
by approximately $168 million as of December 31, 2003
and $239 million as of December 31, 2002. The
following table summarizes the accumulated fair value
adjustments from interest rate swap agreements by underlying
debt instrument category at December 31 (in millions):

(a)

Of these amounts, $48 million (on a pre-tax
    basis) is scheduled to be reclassified as a credit to interest
    expense over the next twelve months.

Interest rate swap agreements reduced net
interest expense by $90 million, $86 million and
$39 million for the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively. The significant terms of the
interest rate contracts and the underlying debt instruments are
identical and therefore no ineffectiveness has been realized.

Interest rate locks

During 2002 and 2001, we entered into cash flow
hedges to secure the underlying interest rates in anticipation
of our senior note issuances. These hedging agreements resulted
in a deferred loss, net of taxes, of approximately
$36 million at December 31, 2003, which is included in
accumulated other comprehensive income. Of this amount,
$5 million (on a pre-tax basis) is scheduled to be
reclassified into interest expense over the next twelve months.

8.

Income Taxes

For financial reporting purposes, income before
income taxes and cumulative effect of changes in accounting
principles, showing domestic and international sources, was as
follows (in millions):


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The provision for income taxes before cumulative
effect of changes in accounting principles consisted of the
following (in millions):

The federal statutory rate is reconciled to the
effective rate as follows:


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The components of the net deferred tax assets
(liabilities) at December 31 are as follows (in
millions):

At December 31, 2003 we had approximately
$19 million of federal net operating loss (“NOL”)
carryforwards, $3.9 billion of state NOL carryforwards, and
$143 million of Canadian NOL carryforwards. The federal and
state NOL carryforwards have expiration dates through the year
2023. The Canadian NOL carryforwards have the following expiry:
$32 million in 2004, $33 million in 2005,
$14 million in 2006, $25 million in 2007 and
$39 million in 2009. We have approximately $1 million
of alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards that may be used
indefinitely and state tax credit carryforwards of
$15 million.

We have established valuation allowances for
uncertainties in realizing the benefit of tax loss and credit
carryforwards and other deferred tax assets. While we expect to
realize the deferred tax assets, net of the valuation
allowances, changes in estimates of future taxable income or in
tax laws may alter this expectation. The valuation allowance
increased approximately $4 million and $9 million in
2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily due to the uncertainty of
realizing foreign and state NOL carryforwards and tax credits.

Unremitted earnings in foreign operations were
approximately $300 million at December 31, 2003, which
we intend to reinvest. It is not practicable to determine the
amount of United States based income taxes that would be payable
upon remittance of the assets that represent those earnings.

9.

Employee Benefit Plans

The Waste Management Retirement Savings Plan
(“Savings Plan”) covers employees (except those
working subject to collective bargaining agreements, which do
not provide for coverage under such plans) following a
90 day waiting period after hire, and allows eligible
employees to contribute up to 15% of their annual compensation,
as limited by IRS regulations. Under the Savings Plan, we match,
in cash, employee contributions up to 3% of their eligible
compensation and match 50% of employee contributions in excess
of 3% but no more than 6% of eligible compensation. Both
employee and company contributions vest immediately. Charges to
operations for our defined contribution plans were
$43 million during both 2003 and 2002 and $41 million
during 2001.

Waste Management Holdings, Inc.
(“WM Holdings”) and certain of its subsidiaries
provided post-retirement health care and other benefits to
eligible employees. In conjunction with our acquisition of
WM Holdings in July 1998, we limited participation in these
plans to participating retired employees as of December 31,
1998. The benefit obligation for these plans was
$60 million and $55 million at December 31, 2003
and 2002, respectively. The discount rate assumptions used in
the measurement of our benefit obligations as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002 were 6.0% and 6.5%,
respectively. The accrued benefit liability as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $64 million and
$67 million, respectively, which is reflected in accrued
liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Participants in the WM Holdings
post-retirement plan contribute to the cost of the benefit, and
for retirees since January 1, 1992, our contribution is
capped at between $0 and $600 per month per retiree, based
on years of service. For measurement purposes, a 10.5% annual
rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care
claims was assumed for 2003 (being an average of the rate used
by all plans); the rate was assumed to decrease to 5.5% in 2008
and remain at that level thereafter.

A 1% change in assumed health care cost trend
rates has no significant effect on total service and interest
cost components of net periodic post-retirement health care
costs. A 1% increase or decrease in assumed health care cost
trend rates would increase or decrease the accumulated
post-retirement benefit obligation by approximately
$5 million.

Our subsidiaries participate in various
multi-employer employee benefit and pension plans and in two
instances, site or contract specific plans (one of which
terminated and completed liquidation in 2002), covering certain
employees not covered under other pension plans. These
multi-employer plans are generally defined contribution plans.
Specific benefit levels are not negotiated with or known by the
employer contributors to the pension plans. The projected
benefit obligation, plan assets and unfunded liability of the
multi-employer pension plans and the site or contract specific
plans are not material. Contributions of $31 million during
both 2003 and 2002 and $23 million during 2001 were charged
to operations for subsidiaries’ defined benefit and
contribution plans.

10.

Commitments and Contingencies

Financial
instruments

— We have
obtained letters of credit, performance bonds and insurance
policies, and have established trust funds and issued financial
guarantees to support tax-exempt bonds, contracts, performance
of landfill closure, post-closure and remedial requirements, and
other obligations. We obtain surety bonds as well as insurance
policies from an affiliated entity that we have an investment in
and account for under the equity method. As of December 31,
2003, we have approximately $1.0 billion of surety bonds
and $17 million of insurance policies outstanding with this
entity. We also use insurance policies issued by our
wholly-owned insurance company, the sole business of which is to
issue policies for the parent holding company and its other
subsidiaries, to secure such performance obligations. In those
instances where our use of captive insurance is not allowed, we
generally have available alternative bonding mechanisms. Because
virtually no claims have been made against these financial
instruments in the past, and considering our current financial
position, management does not expect that these instruments will
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
statements. We have not experienced any unmanageable difficulty
in obtaining the required financial assurance instruments for
our current operations.

During 2003, we entered into the LC and term loan
agreements and the letter of credit facility to provide us with
additional sources of capacity from which we may obtain letters
of credit. See Note 7 for additional information related to
these arrangements. Additionally in 2003, we guaranteed the debt
of a newly formed surety company in order to assist in the
establishment of that entity. The terms of this guarantee are
further discussed within the

Guarantees

section of this
note. In an ongoing effort to mitigate risks of future cost
increases and reductions in available capacity, we continue to
evaluate various options to access cost-effective sources of
financial assurance.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Insurance

—
We carry a broad range of insurance coverages for protection of
our assets and operations from certain risks including pollution
legal liability insurance for certain of our disposal sites,
transfer stations, recycling and other facilities. Our current
programs carry self-insurance exposures of up to $750,000,
$20,000 and $2 million per incident with regards to workers
compensation, auto and general liability, respectively.
Self-insurance claims reserves acquired as part of our
acquisition of WM Holdings in July 1998 were discounted at
4.25% and 5.0% at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
The changes to our net insurance liabilities are summarized
below (in millions):

For the 14 months ended January 1,
2000, we insured certain risks, including auto, general
liability and workers’ compensation, with Reliance National
Insurance Company, whose parent filed for bankruptcy in June
2001. In October 2001, the parent and certain of its
subsidiaries, including Reliance National Insurance Company,
were placed in liquidation. We believe that because of various
state insurance guarantee funds and potential recoveries from
the liquidation, it is unlikely that events relating to Reliance
will have a material adverse impact on our financial statements.

Operating
leases

— Rental expense for
leased properties was $174 million, $166 million and
$162 million during 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
These amounts primarily include rents under long-term operating
leases. Contractual payments due during the next five years and
thereafter on long-term operating lease obligations are noted
below (in millions). Our minimum contractual payments for lease
agreements during future periods is significantly less than
current year rent expense because a significant portion of our
lease agreements have month-to-month lease terms.

Other long-term
commitments

— We have the
following unconditional purchase obligations.

•

Equipment

—
    We have agreements that require us to purchase a minimum number
    of containers from certain vendors. We enter into these purchase
    agreements to ensure that we receive competitive prices for
    equipment used in our operations. These agreements extend
    through 2007.

•

Fuel

— We
    have fuel purchase agreements with select counterparties
    expiring at various dates through 2010 that require us to
    purchase a minimum number of gallons. These agreements are
    primarily established based on the anticipated needs of each of
    our operating Groups. Under our fuel take-or-pay contracts, we
    are generally obligated to pay for a minimum number of gallons
    at either a stated or market-driven rate even if such quantities
    are not required in our operations.

•

Disposal

—
    We have several agreements expiring at various dates through
    2019 that require us to dispose of a minimum number of tons at
    third party disposal facilities. Under these put-or-pay
    agreements, we are required to pay for the agreed upon minimum
    volumes regardless of the actual number of tons placed at the
    facilities.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

•

Waste
    Paper

— We are a party to a
    waste paper purchase agreement that expires in 2009 that
    requires us to purchase a minimum number of tons of waste paper
    from the counterparty each year. The cost per ton of waste paper
    purchased is based on market prices and the delivery of the
    product to our customers.

Our unconditional purchase obligations are
generally quantity driven. We have therefore made estimates of
our future purchase obligations based on the current underlying
market values of the products or services. Estimates of our
contractual obligations for the commitments described above
during the next five years and thereafter are noted in the table
below (in millions).

Guarantees

—
We have entered into the following guarantee agreements
associated with our operations.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

•

Certain of our subsidiaries have guaranteed the
    market value of certain homeowners’ properties that are
    adjacent to our landfills. These guarantee agreements extend
    over the life of the landfill. Under these agreements, we would
    be responsible for the difference between the sale value and the
    market value of the homeowners’ properties, if any. We do
    not believe it is possible to determine the contingent
    obligation associated with these guarantees, but we do not
    believe it would have a material effect on our financial
    position or results of operations.

•

We have indemnified the purchasers of businesses
    or divested assets for the occurrence of specified events under
    certain of our divestiture agreements. We do not believe that it
    is possible to determine the contingent obligations associated
    with these indemnities.

•

WMI guarantees the service and lease obligations
    of certain of its subsidiaries. If a subsidiary fails to meet
    its contractual service or lease obligations as they come due,
    WMI has an unconditional obligation to perform on its behalf. No
    additional liability has been recorded for these guarantees
    because the subsidiaries’ obligations are properly
    accounted for as costs of operations as services are provided
    and operating or capital leases, as appropriate.

We currently believe that it is not reasonably
likely that we will be required to perform under these guarantee
agreements or that any performance requirement would have a
material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Environmental
matters

— Our business is
intrinsically connected with the protection of the environment.
As such, a significant portion of our operating costs and
capital expenditures could be characterized as costs of
environmental protection. Such costs may increase in the future
as a result of legislation or regulation. However, we believe
that we generally tend to benefit when environmental regulation
increases, because such regulations increase the demand for our
services, and we have the resources and experience to manage
environmental risk. For more information regarding environmental
matters, see Note 4.

Estimates of the extent of our degree of
responsibility for remediation of a particular site and the
method and ultimate cost of remediation require a number of
assumptions and are inherently difficult, and the ultimate
outcome may differ materially from current estimates. However,
we believe that our extensive experience in the environmental
services industry, as well as our involvement with a large
number of sites, provides a reasonable basis for estimating our
aggregate liability. As additional information becomes
available, estimates are adjusted as necessary. It is reasonably
possible that technological, regulatory or enforcement
developments, the results of environmental studies, the
nonexistence or inability of other PRPs to contribute to the
settlements of such liabilities, or other factors could
necessitate the recording of additional liabilities which could
be material.

We have been identified as a PRP in a number of
governmental investigations and actions relating to waste
disposal sites that may be subject to remedial action under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liabilities Act of 1980, as amended (“CERCLA” or
“Superfund”), or similar state laws. The majority of
these proceedings involve allegations that certain of our
subsidiaries (or their predecessors) transported hazardous
substances to the sites, often prior to our acquisition of these
subsidiaries. CERCLA generally provides for liability for those
parties owning, operating, transporting to or disposing at the
sites. Proceedings arising under Superfund typically involve
numerous waste generators and other waste transportation and
disposal companies and seek to allocate or recover costs
associated with site investigation and cleanup, which costs
could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on
our consolidated financial statements. At some of the sites at
which we’ve been indentified as a PRP, our liability is
well defined as a consequence of a governmental decision and an
agreement among liable parties as to the allocation of costs. At
others where no remedy has been selected or the liable parties
have been unable to agree on an appropriate allocation, our
future costs are uncertain. Any of these matters could have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

From time to time, we are named as defendants in
personal injury and property damage lawsuits, including
purported class actions, on the basis of having owned, operated
or transported waste to a disposal facility that is alleged to
have contaminated the environment or, in certain cases,
conducted environmental remediation activities at sites. Some of
the lawsuits may seek to have us pay the costs of groundwater
monitoring and health care examinations of allegedly affected
persons for a substantial period of time even where no actual
damage is proven. While we believe we have meritorious defenses
to these lawsuits, the ultimate resolution is often
substantially uncertain due to the difficulty of determining the
cause, extent and impact of alleged contamination (which may
have occurred over a long period of time), the potential for
successive groups of complainants to emerge, the diversity of
the individual plaintiffs’ circumstances, and the potential
contribution or indemnification obligations of co-defendants or
other third parties, among other factors. Accordingly, it is
possible such matters could have a material adverse impact on
our consolidated financial statements.

For more information regarding commitments and
contingencies with respect to environmental matters, see
Note 4.

Litigation

—
In December 1999, an individual brought an action against the
Company, five former officers of WM Holdings, and
WM Holdings’ former independent auditor, Arthur
Andersen LLP, in Illinois state court on behalf of a proposed
class of individuals who purchased WM Holdings common stock
before November 3, 1994, and who held that stock through
February 24, 1998. The action is for alleged acts of common
law fraud, negligence and breach of fiduciary duty. In May 2001,
the court granted in part and denied in part the
defendants’ motion to dismiss and in August 2003 denied
defendants’ motion for summary judgment. The extent of
possible damages, if any, in this action cannot yet be
determined.

On November 7, 2001, we announced that we
had reached a settlement agreement with the plaintiff in a class
action lawsuit arising from events related to our earnings
announcements in July and August of 1999. The settlement
agreement resolved all claims in the lawsuit against us and our
current and former officers and directors. The agreement
provided for payment of $457 million to members of the
class and for us to consent, for settlement purposes, to the
certification of a class of purchasers or acquirers of our
securities from June 11, 1998 through November 9,
1999. The payment, including interest accrued at the Federal
Funds rate, was made on September 16, 2003.

A former participant in WM Holdings’
ERISA plans filed appeals relating to the settlement in March
2003, which were remanded back to the trial court where a
settlement among plaintiffs’ counsel and the appellant was
approved by the court. This settlement requires no additional
commitment from us. This former participant and another
individual also filed a separate case in Washington, D.C.
against us and others, attempting to increase the recovery of a
class of ERISA plan participants based on allegations related to
both the events alleged in, and the settlements relating to, the
class action against WM Holdings that was settled in 1998
and the complaint in this action. Additionally, a single group
of stockholders opted not to participate in the settlement of
the class action lawsuit and filed an individual lawsuit against
us. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in all of
these remaining proceedings.

Also on November 7, 2001, we announced that
we would receive $20 million (less fees of approximately
$5 million awarded to counsel for the derivative
plaintiffs) as a result of a settlement reached between the
derivative plaintiffs and Arthur Andersen in a stockholder
derivative suit filed on July 3, 2001 in Texas state court
against Arthur Andersen, as our former independent auditor. The
derivative plaintiffs alleged, among other things, that Arthur
Andersen engaged in professional malpractice in connection with
certain services that it performed for us. Arthur Andersen
informed us that neither the complaint nor the settlement
affected its independence in 2001 or prior years, when Arthur
Andersen was serving as our independent auditor. The settlement
was approved in May 2002. Arthur Andersen’s payment became
due and was paid at the same time our payment to the plaintiffs
in settlement of the class action lawsuit described above became
due.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Three groups of stockholders have filed separate
lawsuits in state courts in Texas and federal court in Illinois
against us and certain of our former officers. The lawsuit filed
in Illinois was subsequently transferred to federal court in
Texas. The petitions allege that the plaintiffs are substantial
holders of the Company’s common stock who intended to sell
their stock in 1999, or to otherwise protect themselves against
loss, but that the public statements we made regarding our
prospects, and in some instances statements made by the
individual defendants, were false and misleading and induced the
plaintiffs to retain their stock or not to take other measures.
The plaintiffs assert that the value of their retained stock
declined dramatically and that they incurred significant losses.
The plaintiffs assert claims for fraud, negligent
misrepresentation, and conspiracy. The first of these cases was
dismissed by summary judgment by a Texas state court in March
2002. That dismissal was reversed in the first quarter of 2004
by an intermediate appellate court, and we are appealing that
decision. The other case also filed in state court is stayed
pending resolution of the first case. The third case is pending
in federal court and the parties await a ruling on the
Company’s motion to dismiss. We intend to continue to
vigorously defend these claims.

Our business is intrinsically connected with the
protection of the environment, and there is the potential for
unintended or unpermitted noncompliance with environmental laws
or regulations. From time to time, we pay fines or penalties in
environmental proceedings relating primarily to waste treatment,
storage or disposal facilities. As of December 31, 2003,
there were nine proceedings involving our subsidiaries where the
sanctions involved in each could potentially exceed $100,000.
The matters involve allegations that subsidiaries
(i) operated a waste-to-energy facility that, as a result
of intermittent and isolated equipment malfunctions, exceeded
emission limits and failed to meet monitoring requirements,
(ii) are responsible for remediation of landfill gas and
chemical compounds required pursuant to a Unilateral
Administrative Order associated with an NPL site, (iii) are
responsible for late performance of work required under a
Unilateral Administrative Order, (iv) improperly operated a
solid waste landfill and caused excess odors, (v) improperly
operated a solid waste landfill by failing to maintain required
records, properly place and cover waste and adhere to proper
leachate levels, (vi) violated the state’s clean water
act, (vii) did not comply with air regulations requiring
control of emissions at a closed landfill,
(viii) improperly operated a solid waste landfill by
failing to maintain required leachate levels and erosion control
and failing to properly operate and monitor gas wells and
adequately control odors and stormwater, and (ix) failed to
comply with an operating permit for a solid waste incineration
unit by exceeding permit limits for capacity, temperature and
waste charging rates and record keeping and notifications
associated with those permit violations. We do not believe that
the fines or other penalties in any of these matters will,
individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition or results of operations.

It is not always possible to predict the impact
that lawsuits, proceedings, investigations and inquiries may
have on us, nor is it possible to predict whether additional
suits or claims may arise out of the matters described above in
the future. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously in all the
above matters. However, it is possible that the outcome of any
of these matters may ultimately have a material adverse impact
on our financial condition or results of operations in one or
more future periods.

We are also currently involved in other routine
civil litigation and governmental proceedings relating to the
conduct of our business. We do not believe that any of these
routine matters will have a material adverse impact on our
consolidated financial statements.

Tax
matters

— We are currently
under audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”)
and from time to time are audited by other taxing authorities.
We fully cooperate with all audits, but defend our positions
vigorously. Our audits are in various stages of completion.
Specifically, we are in the process of concluding the appeals
phase of IRS audits for the years 1989 to 1992 and 1993 to 1996.
The audits for these years should be completed within the next
18 months. In addition, we are in the examination phase of
an IRS audit for the years 1997 to 2000. This audit should also
be completed within the next 18 months. To provide for
potential tax exposures, we maintain an allowance for tax
contingencies, the balance of which management believes is


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

adequate. Results of audit assessments by taxing
authorities could have a material effect on our quarterly or
annual cash flows as well as our results of operations over the
next 18 months as these audits are completed. However, we
do not believe that any of these matters will have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations.

11.

Restructuring

In 2002 we organized the Company into market
areas to better align our collection, transport, recycling and
disposal resources. As part of the restructuring, we reduced the
number of field layers of management and eliminated
approximately 1,900 field-level administrative and operational
positions. In the first quarter of 2002, we recorded
$37 million of pre-tax charges for costs associated with
the implementation of the new structure. An additional
$1 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2002. These
charges included $36 million for employee severance and
benefit costs and $2 million related to abandoned operating
lease agreements. As of December 31, 2003, substantially
all payments related to this restructuring had been made. We do
not expect to incur any additional costs associated with this
restructuring.

In February 2003 we reduced the number of market
areas that make up our geographic operating Groups to 66 from a
total of 91 at December 31, 2002, and reduced certain
overhead positions to further streamline our organization. Our
market areas all report to one of our five Groups that divide
our operations geographically into the Eastern, Midwest,
Southern, Western and Canadian operations. We manage and
evaluate our operations through these five geographic operating
Groups and our Recycling and Wheelabrator Groups, which
represent our reporting segments as further described in
Note 20. We believe that this structure results in a more
effective utilization of resources and enables us to serve our
customers more efficiently. In connection with the
restructuring, we reduced our workforce by about 700 employees
and 270 contract workers. We recorded $20 million of
pre-tax charges for costs associated with our February 2003
restructuring and workforce reduction, all of which was
associated with employee severance and benefit costs.

The operational efficiencies provided by these
organizational changes and a focus on fully utilizing the
capabilities of our information technology resources enabled us
to further reduce our workforce in June 2003. This workforce
reduction resulted in the elimination of an additional 600
employee positions and 200 contract worker positions. We
recorded $24 million of pre-tax charges for costs
associated with the June 2003 workforce reduction.

We incurred a total of approximately
$44 million in employee severance and benefit costs for the
2003 restructuring and workforce reductions. We do not expect to
incur any additional costs associated with the 2003
restructuring. The following table summarizes the total costs
recorded for the year ended December 31, 2003 for each of
our operating Groups (in millions):

During the year ended December 31, 2003 we
paid approximately $18 million of the employee severance
and benefit costs incurred as a result of the February 2003
restructuring and workforce reduction. As of


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

December 31, 2003, $2 million of the
related accrual remained for employee severance and benefit
costs. The length of time we are obligated to make severance
payments to employees associated with the February 2003
reorganization and workforce reduction varies, with the longest
period of obligation ending in the first quarter of 2005.

As of December 31, 2003, we paid
approximately $15 million of the employee severance and
benefit costs incurred as a result of the June 2003 workforce
reduction. Approximately $9 million remains accrued as of
December 31, 2003 for employee severance and benefit costs
incurred as a result of the June 2003 workforce reduction. The
length of time we are obligated to make severance payments to
employees associated with the June 2003 workforce reduction
varies, with the longest period of obligation ending in the
third quarter of 2005.

12.

Asset Impairments and Unusual Items

In 2003, 2002 and 2001, we recorded certain
charges and credits for asset impairments and unusual items as
follows (in millions):


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss

The components of accumulated other comprehensive
loss were as follows (in millions):

14.

Capital Stock and Dividends

The Board of Directors is authorized to issue
preferred stock in series, and with respect to each series, to
fix its designation, relative rights (including voting,
dividend, conversion, sinking fund, and redemption rights),
preferences (including dividends and liquidation), and
limitations. The Company has ten million shares of authorized
preferred stock, $0.01 par value, none of which is
currently outstanding.

We declared cash dividends of $0.01 per
common share, or approximately $6 million, during each of
2003, 2002 and 2001. In August 2003, we announced that the Board
of Directors approved a quarterly dividend program beginning in
2004. It is expected that the dividend will be $0.1875 per
share per quarter, or $0.75 per share annually. The first
quarterly dividend of $0.1875 per share will be paid on
March 25, 2004 to stockholders of record as of
March 1, 2004. As of December 31, 2003, we have the
ability, under our most restrictive loan covenant financial
tests, to make dividend payments and repurchase shares in the
aggregate amount of up to approximately $600 million, plus
25% of future net income.

In February 2002 we announced that our Board of
Directors had approved a stock repurchase program for up to
$1 billion in annual repurchases for each of 2002, 2003 and
2004, to be implemented at management’s discretion. Any
purchases may be made in either open market or privately
negotiated transactions primarily using cash flows from
operations.

The following is a summary of activity to date
for our stock repurchase program (in millions, except shares in
thousands and price per share).


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

15.

Stock-Based Compensation

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

We have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan under
which an aggregate of 5.25 million shares has been reserved
for issuance since the plan’s adoption in 1997. Under the
Stock Purchase Plan, employees may purchase shares of our common
stock at a discount. The plan provides for two offering periods
for purchases: January through June and July through December.
At the end of each offering period, employees are able to
purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the
lesser of the market value of the stock on the first or last day
of such offering period. The purchases are made through payroll
deductions, and the number of shares that may be purchased is
limited by IRS regulations. The total number of shares issued
under the plan for the offering periods in each of 2003, 2002
and 2001 was approximately 597,000, 612,000 and 426,000,
respectively. At December 31, 2003, there were
approximately 1.5 million shares remaining available for
issuance.

Employee Stock Incentive
    Plans

We have three plans under which we granted stock
options in 2003: the 1993 Stock Incentive Plan, the 2000 Stock
Incentive Plan and the 2000 Broad-Based Employee Plan. All three
plans allow for grants of stock options, appreciation rights and
stock awards to key employees, except grants under the 2000
Broad-Based Plan may not be made to any executive officers. The
Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors administers the
plans, and is authorized to make grants at its discretion;
provided, that the exercise price of any stock option granted
must be at least equal to fair market value as of the date of
grant and may not have an expiration date beyond ten years from
the date of grant. Additionally, although the Board of Directors
has the authority to set other terms, all of our options vest
ratably over a four or five-year period.

The maximum number of shares authorized for
issuance over the life of the 1993 Stock Incentive Plan, 2000
Stock Incentive Plan and 2000 Broad-Based Plan are
26.5 million, 29 million and 3 million,
respectively. At December 31, 2003, a total of
19.7 million, 19.9 million and 1.5 million shares
were issuable upon exercise of options outstanding under the
1993 Stock Incentive Plan, 2000 Stock Incentive Plan and 2000
Broad-Based Employee Plan, respectively. The 1993 Stock
Incentive Plan expired in May 2003, and no grants could be made
under the plan after its expiration, and approximately
8.7 million and approximately 300,000 shares remain
available for grant under the 2000 Stock Incentive and
Broad-Based Plans.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Non-Employee Director Plans

We also have a 1996 Non-Employee Director Plan
that allows for an automatic annual grant of options to purchase
10,000 shares of common stock to each of our non-employee
directors. The plan authorized a total of 2.4 million
shares, and all options granted under the plan had a one-year
vesting period and a term of ten years. In accordance with the
plan, all options had an exercise price equal to the fair market
value on the date of grant. Members of our Board of Directors
received their annual grants in 2001 and 2002. However, the
annual grant ceased after 2002 when we adopted our 2003
Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan. Under the Deferred
Compensation Plan, a portion of the cash compensation that the
directors would otherwise receive is deferred until after their
termination from board service and each director may elect to
defer the remaining cash compensation to a date that he chooses,
which must be after termination of board service. At that time,
the compensation is paid in shares of our common stock. The
number of shares the directors receive is calculated on the date
the cash compensation would have been payable, based on the fair
market value of our common stock on that day.

Other

We have outstanding warrants that we issued to
non-employees for goods and services through 1997 in individual
arrangements. These warrants generally vest over a period of
time, up to five years, and have terms of up to ten years. All
of the warrants have exercise prices equal to the fair market
value of our common stock on the date they were granted.
Additionally, we have outstanding options and warrants that we
acquired in acquisitions. At the time of those acquisitions, the
options and warrants were converted into the right to purchase
shares of our common stock. These options and warrants generally
continue to vest under their original schedules, which range up
to five years, although some vested immediately upon the change
in control related to the acquisition.

We generally issue treasury stock upon exercises
of stock options and warrants. When issuing shares of treasury
stock, the difference between the stock option or warrant
exercise price and the average treasury stock cost is recorded
as an addition to or deduction from additional paid in capital.

The following table summarizes our common stock
option and warrant activity (shares in thousands):


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Outstanding and exercisable stock options and
warrants at December 31, 2003, were as follows (shares in
thousands):

Our President, CEO, and Chairman of the Board was
granted 650,000 performance based stock options upon joining the
Company in November 1999. The options were granted under our
1993 Stock Incentive Plan and are included in the above tables.
The options vest according to certain performance goals in lieu
of the normal vesting schedules. Notwithstanding these
performance goals, all of these options will vest no later than
five years from the date of grant.

16.

Earnings Per Share

The following reconciles income before cumulative
effect of changes in accounting principles as presented in the
consolidated statements of operations with diluted net income
for the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per common
share (in millions):

The following reconciles the number of common
shares outstanding at December 31 of each year to the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding and the
weighted average number of common and


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

dilutive potential common shares outstanding for
the purposes of calculating basic and diluted earnings per
common share (shares in millions):

For 2001 and 2003, the effect of our convertible
subordinated notes is excluded from the dilutive earnings per
share calculation since inclusion of these items would be
antidilutive.

At December 31, 2003, there were
approximately 49.9 million shares of common stock
potentially issuable with respect to stock options, warrants,
and convertible debt, of which approximately 19.6 million
shares were not included in the diluted earnings per share
computation because their exercise price was greater than the
average per share market price of our stock for the year ended
2003. Including the impact of these potentially issuable shares
in the current period calculations would not have been dilutive
for the periods presented, but may dilute earnings per share in
the future.

17.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

We have determined the estimated fair value
amounts of our financial instruments using available market
information and commonly accepted valuation methodologies.
However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting
market data to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly,
our estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that
we or holders of the instruments could realize in a current
market exchange. The use of different assumptions and/or
estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the
estimated fair values. The fair value estimates are based on
information available to management as of December 31, 2003
and 2002. These amounts have not been revalued since those
dates, and current estimates of fair value may differ
significantly from the amounts presented.

The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents,
short-term investments, trade accounts receivable, trade
accounts payable, financial instruments included in notes and
other receivables and certain financial instruments included in
other assets or other liabilities are reflected in our
consolidated financial statements at historical cost, which is
materially representative of their fair value principally
because of the short-term maturities of these instruments.

Long-term
investments

— Included as a
component of other assets in our balance sheet at
December 31, 2003 is $397 million of restricted
investments in U.S. government agency debt securities.
These investments are recorded at fair value with the unrealized
holding gain, which was approximately $1 million at
December 31, 2003, deferred as a component of other
comprehensive income in the equity section of the balance sheet.

Debt and interest rate
derivatives

— At
December 31, 2003 and 2002, the carrying value of debt was
approximately $8.5 billion and $8.3 billion,
respectively, which includes adjustments to the carrying values
of debt instruments for both the unamortized fair value
adjustments related to terminated hedge arrangements and fair
value adjustments of debt instruments that are currently hedged.
See Note 7. For active hedge arrangements, the fair value
of the derivative is included in other current assets, other
long-term assets,


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

accrued liabilities or other long-term
liabilities, as appropriate. The estimated fair value of debt at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 was approximately
$8.9 billion and $8.7 billion, respectively. The
estimated fair values of our senior notes and convertible
subordinated notes are based on quoted market prices. The
carrying value of remarketable debt approximates fair value due
to the short-term nature of the attached interest rates. The
fair value of other debt is estimated using discounted cash flow
analysis, based on rates we would currently pay for similar
types of instruments.

18.

Business Combinations and
    Divestitures

Purchase Acquisitions

During the year ended December 31, 2003, we
paid $337 million, net of cash acquired, for the
acquisitions of approximately 75 businesses, which are included
within our NASW operations. This included approximately
$85 million in the first quarter of 2003, which was
primarily associated with our acquisition of the Peltz Group,
the largest privately-held recycler in the United States. Its
assets were contributed to Recycle America Alliance. See
Note 20 for further discussion. The most significant of the
other transactions was the acquisition of certain collections
assets from Allied Waste Industries, Inc. in the third and
fourth quarters of 2003.

Additionally, in 2003 we acquired certain
operations from Bio-Energy Partners, a general partnership in
which we have a 50% ownership interest, for $18 million.
Bio-Energy Partners owns and operates facilities that produce
electrical power from landfill gas that is ultimately sold to
public utilities and other commercial users. Concurrent with
this transaction, we received net cash proceeds from Bio-Energy
Partners of $30 million in exchange for assuming a like
amount of indebtedness of the partnership. We continue to
account for our remaining interests in Bio-Energy Partners as an
equity investment.

All 2003 acquisitions were accounted for under
the purchase method of accounting, as required by
SFAS No. 141, with the purchase price being allocated
to the net assets acquired based on their respective fair
values. As a result of these acquisitions, we recorded
approximately $458 million in additional assets, including
approximately $154 million of goodwill, of which
approximately $143 million is deductible for income tax
purposes, and approximately $65 million of other intangible
assets. Approximately $117 million of liabilities were
assumed as a result of these acquisitions. No single acquisition
has been material to our consolidated financial position or our
results of operations for the periods presented, and we do not
anticipate that these acquisitions, when considered individually
or in the aggregate, will have a material impact on our results
of operations in future periods.

In both 2002 and 2001, we completed over 50
acquisitions of North American Solid Waste (“NASW”)
operations that were accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. Cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired,
was approximately $162 million and $116 million for
2002 and 2001, respectively.

Divestitures

The approximate aggregate sales prices for
divestitures of the Company’s non-integrated North American
operations in 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $18 million,
$103 million and $23 million, respectively, which was
comprised substantially of cash proceeds. We recognized net
gains of approximately $13 million and $8 million on
these divestitures during 2003 and 2002, respectively. There was
no material impact related to our 2001 divestitures.

19.

Variable Interest Entities

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation
No. 46,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

.
FIN 46 requires the primary beneficiary of a variable
interest entity to consolidate the assets, liabilities, and
results of operations of that entity in its financial
statements. Based on the guidance in FIN 46, we have


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

concluded that we hold financial interests in
certain entities that make us the primary beneficiary of those
entities.

As it applies to our implementation, the
effective dates for FIN 46 are as follows:

In accordance with our implementation of
FIN 46 to date, we began consolidating the financial
results of a surety bonding company at the beginning of the
third quarter of 2003 and consolidated the assets and
liabilities of two leasing entities established for the
leveraged lease financing of three of our waste-to-energy
facilities on December 31, 2003 as described below:

Financial Interest in Surety Bonding
Company

— During the third
quarter of 2003, we issued a $25.6 million letter of credit
to support the debt of a surety bonding company established by
an unrelated third party to issue surety bonds to the waste
industry and other industries. The letter of credit serves to
guarantee the surety bonding company’s obligations
associated with its debt and represents our exposure to loss
associated with our financial interest in the entity.

Approximately $22 million of current assets,
$5 million of other intangible assets and $27 million
of debt have been included in our consolidated balance sheet as
of December 31, 2003 as a result of the application of
FIN 46 to this variable interest entity. Although we are
the primary beneficiary of this variable interest entity, the
creditors of the entity do not have recourse against our general
credit and our losses are limited to our exposure under the
guarantee. Consolidation of this entity did not materially
impact our results of operations during the year ended
December 31, 2003 nor do we anticipate that it will
materially impact our results of operations in the foreseeable
future. See Note 2 for additional discussion related to our
financial assurance activities.

Waste-to-Energy
LLCs

— On June 30,
2000, two limited liability companies (“LLCs”) were
established to purchase interests in existing leveraged lease
financings at three waste-to-energy facilities that we operate
under an agreement with the owner. John Hancock Life Insurance
Company (“Hancock”) has a 99.5% ownership interest in
one of the LLCs (“LLC I”), and the second LLC
(“LLC II”) is 99.75% collectively owned by
LLC I and the CIT Group (“CIT”). We own the
remaining equity interest in each LLC. Hancock and CIT made an
initial investment of approximately $167 million in the
LLCs. The LLCs used these proceeds to purchase the three
waste-to-energy facilities that we operate and assumed the
seller’s indebtedness related to these facilities. Under
the LLC agreements, the LLCs shall be dissolved upon the
occurrence of any of the following events: (i) a written
decision of all the members of the LLCs to dissolve,
(ii) December 31, 2063, (iii) the entry of a
decree of judicial dissolution under the Delaware Limited
Liability Company Act, or (iv) the LLCs ceasing to own any
interest in these waste-to-energy facilities.

Income, losses and cash flows are allocated to
the members based on their initial capital account balances
until Hancock and CIT achieve targeted returns; thereafter, the
earnings of LLC I will be allocated 20% to


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Hancock and 80% to us and the earnings of
LLC II will be allocated 20% to Hancock and CIT and 80% to
us. We do not expect Hancock and CIT to achieve the targeted
returns at any time during the initial base term of the lease.
We are required under certain circumstances to make capital
contributions to the LLCs in the amount of the difference
between the stipulated loss amounts and terminated values under
the LLC agreements to the extent they are different from the
underlying lease agreements. We believe that the likelihood of
the occurrence of these circumstances is remote. Additionally,
if we exercise certain renewal options under the leases, we will
be required to make capital contributions to the LLCs for the
difference between fair market rents and the scheduled renewal
rents, if any.

Prior to the consolidation of the entities, we
accounted for the underlying leases of the waste-to-energy
facilities as operating leases and accounted for our investment
in the LLCs under the equity method of accounting. For the year
ended December 31, 2003, we made aggregate lease payments
of approximately $63 million. As of December 31, 2003,
the remaining aggregate lease commitments related to these waste
facilities was $467 million, which includes
$158 million in required capital contributions to the LLC
for the amount of the difference between the bargain rents
associated with the renewal options and fair value rental
payments. The three facilities serve as collateral for the
LLCs’ debt obligations.

The following table summarizes the impact of the
consolidation of these entities as of December 31, 2003 (in
millions):

On December 31, 2003, we recorded a charge
to cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of
approximately $43 million, net of tax benefit, or
$0.07 per diluted share as a result of the consolidation of
the LLCs. Additionally, we expect this change in accounting to
impact the presentation of certain activity within our statement
of operations beginning in the first quarter of 2004. However,
we do not expect the change in accounting for the LLCs to
materially impact our net income or cash flows.

20.

Segment and Related Information

We manage and evaluate our operations primarily
through our Eastern, Midwest, Southern, Western, Canadian,
Wheelabrator and Recycling Groups. These seven operating Groups
are presented below as our


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

reportable segments. These reportable segments,
when combined with certain other operations not managed through
the seven operating Groups, comprise our North American Solid
Waste, or NASW, operations. NASW, our core business, provides
integrated waste management services consisting of collection,
disposal (solid waste and hazardous waste landfills), transfer,
waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production
plants that are managed by Wheelabrator, recycling and other
miscellaneous services to commercial, industrial, municipal and
residential customers throughout the United States, Puerto Rico
and Canada. The operations not managed through our seven
operating Groups are presented herein as “Other NASW.”
We also had international waste management services and
non-solid waste services, all of which were divested by
March 31, 2002. However, we continue to incur minimal
administrative expenses in connection with these divestitures.
These operations are included in the table below as
“Other.”

Summarized financial information concerning our
reportable segments for the respective years ended
December 31 is shown in the following table (in millions).
In our prior year footnotes to the consolidated financial
statements, Recycling was included within the geographic Groups.
For the current year presentation, prior period information has
been restated to conform to the current year presentation.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(g)

Goodwill is included in total assets. The
    reconciliation of changes in goodwill during 2003 by reportable
    segment is as follows (in millions):

The table below shows the total revenues
contributed by the Company’s principal lines of business
within NASW (in millions).


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Operating revenues and property and equipment
(net) relating to operations in the United States and Puerto
Rico, Europe, Canada and all other geographic areas (“other
foreign”) are as follows (in millions).

At December 31, 2001, we had divested all of
our international waste management operations other than our
Canadian operations. Therefore, property and equipment relating
to Europe and other foreign areas are appropriately not
reflected in the table below.

21.

Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Historically, our quarterly operating results
have fluctuated. The fluctuations may be caused by many factors,
including period-to-period changes in the relative contribution
of revenue by each line of business and operating segment and
general economic conditions. Our revenues and income from
operations typically reflect seasonal patterns. Our operating
revenues tend to be somewhat lower in the winter months,
primarily due to the lower volume of construction and demolition
waste. Volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain
regions also tend to decrease during the winter months. We also
use the slower winter months for scheduled maintenance at our
waste-to-energy facilities, so repair and maintenance expense is
generally higher in our first quarter than in other quarters
during the year. In addition, particularly harsh weather
conditions may result in the temporary suspension of certain of
our operations. Our first and fourth quarter results of
operations typically reflect these seasonal changes.


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table summarizes the unaudited
quarterly results of operations for 2003 and 2002 (in millions,
except per share amounts):


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Basic and diluted earnings per common share for
each of the quarters presented above is based on the respective
weighted average number of common and dilutive potential common
shares outstanding for each quarter and the sum of the quarters
may not necessarily be equal to the full year basic and diluted
earnings per common share amounts. For certain quarters
presented, the effect of our convertible subordinated notes and
debentures are excluded from the diluted earnings per share
calculations since inclusion of these items would be
antidilutive for those periods.

22. Condensed Consolidating Financial
Statements

WM Holdings, which is 100% owned by WMI, has
fully and unconditionally guaranteed all of WMI’s senior
indebtedness, as well as WMI’s 4% convertible
subordinated notes that matured and were repaid in February
2002. WMI has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the
5.75% convertible subordinated debentures due 2005 issued
by WM Holdings. However, none of WMI’s other
subsidiaries guaranteed any of WMI’s or
WM Holdings’ debt. As a result of these guarantee
arrangements, we are required to present the following condensed
consolidating financial information (in millions).

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE
SHEETS

December 31, 2003


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

December 31, 2002


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

23.     New
Accounting Pronouncements (Unaudited)

FIN 46 — Consolidation of
    Variable Interest Entities

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46,
which requires variable interest entities to be consolidated by
their primary beneficiaries. A primary beneficiary is the party
that absorbs a majority of the entity’s expected losses or
receives a majority of the entity’s expected residual
returns, or both, as a result of ownership, contractual or other
financial interests in the entity. In December 2003, the FASB
revised FIN 46 to provide companies with clarification of
key terms, additional exemptions for application and an extended
initial application period. FIN 46 is currently effective
for all variable interest entities created or modified after
January 31, 2003 and special purpose entities created on or
before January 31, 2003. See Note 19 for disclosures
related to variable interest entities that have been
consolidated into our financial statements as of
December 31, 2003. The FASB’s December 2003 revision
to FIN 46 makes the Interpretation effective for all other
variable interests beginning March 31, 2004.

As a result of the FASB’s December 2003
revision of FIN 46, we postponed our implementation of
FIN 46 for non-special purpose variable interest entities
created on or before January 31, 2003. The following
variable interest entities have been identified as a result of
our implementation processes and are expected to be
consolidated, as appropriate, beginning March 31, 2004.

Closure, Post-Closure and Remedial Trust
Funds —

At several of our
landfills and remedial sites we provide financial assurance by
depositing cash, or directing others to deposit cash, into trust
funds that are legally restricted for purposes of settling
closure, post-closure or remedial obligations. These funds are
generally invested in cash or cash-equivalent instruments and
marketable debt and equity securities. See Note 2 for
additional disclosure associated with these financial assurance
instruments. Variability in the fair value of trust assets is
generally for our benefit or detriment as the accounts have been
established to meet our statutory financial assurance
requirements and future financial obligations. Our exposure to
loss associated


WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

with these entities is therefore a function of
the ability of the funds to meet our statutory requirements and
closure, post-closure and remedial obligations as they come due.
As the trust funds are generally invested in high quality, low
risk financial instruments and are expected to continue to meet
the statutory requirements for which they were established, we
do not believe that there is any material exposure to loss
associated with the trusts. The fair value of these trust funds
was approximately $205 million at December 31, 2003.
Of this amount, approximately $186 million is currently
recorded in our consolidated balance sheet primarily as a
component of other long-term assets. The remaining
$19 million will be consolidated as of March 31, 2004
unless the FASB issues further changes to FIN 46 that
indicate otherwise.

Financial Interests in Operating and Capital
Leases

— We have certain
lease agreements that contain fixed price purchase options. The
option prices are generally intended to approximate the fair
value of the properties at the termination of the lease term and
in no way represent a guarantee of the assets’ residual
value. For those interests, we have determined that we are not
the primary beneficiary of the leasing entities. The leasing
entities are single asset entities owned and managed by
financing organizations. The entities were established to own
and lease waste-to-energy facilities operated by our
Wheelabrator Group. In addition to the fixed price purchase
options contained in these lease agreements, the lease terms
include termination value requirements that expose us to
potential variability in an event of default. We believe that
the likelihood of an event of default is remote and that our
exposure to loss associated with these lease agreements is
limited to our obligation to make future minimum rent payments.

We are unaware of any other financial interests
that should be considered for purposes of applying FIN 46,
but will continue to assess our existing financial interests
through the first quarter of 2004.


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure.

None.

ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures.

We maintain a set of disclosure controls and
procedures designed to ensure that information we are required
to disclose in reports that we file or submit with the SEC is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified by the SEC. An evaluation was carried out
under the supervision and with the participation of the
Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer
(“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”),
of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures
as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
that evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective
to ensure that we are able to collect, process and disclose the
information we are required to disclose in the reports we file
with the SEC within required time periods.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant.

The information required by this Item with
respect to directors, executive officers and section 16
reporting is incorporated by reference to “Election of
Directors,” “Executive Officers,” and
“Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting” in
the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its 2004
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be held May 14, 2004.

We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to
our CEO, CFO and Chief Accounting Officer, as well as other
officers, directors and employees of the Company. The code of
ethics, entitled “Code of Conduct,” is posted on our
website at http://www.wm.com under the caption “Ethics and
Diversity.”

Item 11.

Executive Compensation.

The information required by this Item is set
forth under the caption “Executive Compensation” in
the 2004 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters.

The information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference to “Equity Compensation Plans
Information” and “Director and Officer Stock
Ownership” in the 2004 Proxy Statement.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions.

The information required by this Item is set
forth under the caption “Related Party Transactions”
in the 2004 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and
    Services.

The information required by this Item is set
forth under the caption “Principal Accounting Fees and
Services” in the 2004 Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.


PART IV

Item 15.

Financial Statement Schedules, Exhibits,
    and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)(1)

Consolidated Financial Statements:

Report of Independent Auditors

Report of Independent Public Accountants

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
Equity for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(a)(2)

Consolidated Financial Statement
    Schedules:

Schedule II — Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts

All other schedules have been omitted because the
required information is not significant or is included in the
financial statements or notes thereto, or is not applicable.

(a)(3)

Exhibits:



*

In the case of incorporation by reference to
    documents filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
    Company’s file number under that Act is 1-12154.

(a)

Reports on Form 8-K:

None.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

By:

/s/ A. MAURICE MYERS

A. Maurice Myers

President, Chief Executive Officer
    and

Chairman of the Board

Date: February 19, 2004

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the date indicated.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Waste Management, Inc.

We have audited, in accordance with auditing
standards generally accepted in the United States, the
consolidated financial statements of Waste Management, Inc. (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and
for the years then ended, and have issued our report thereon
dated February 10, 2004 (included elsewhere in this
Form 10-K). Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and
for each of the years then ended, listed in Item 15(a) of
this Form 10-K. This schedule is the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits. The financial statement schedule
listed in Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K as of
December 31, 2001, and for the year then ended, was audited
by other auditors who have ceased operations and whose report
dated February 25, 2002 expressed an unqualified opinion.

In our opinion, the 2003 and 2002 financial
statement schedule referred to above, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.

Houston, Texas

February 10, 2004

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of
Waste Management, Inc.:

We have audited in accordance with auditing
standards generally accepted in the United States, the
consolidated financial statements of Waste Management, Inc. and
subsidiaries included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
and have issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2002.
Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on
those statements taken as a whole. Schedule II is the
responsibility of the Company’s management and is presented
for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s rules and is not part of the basic financial
statements. Schedule II has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial
statements, and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material
respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Houston, Texas

February 25, 2002

THIS IS A COPY OF THE AUDIT REPORT PREVIOUSLY
ISSUED BY ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP IN CONNECTION WITH WASTE
MANAGEMENT, INC.’S FILING ON FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2001. THIS AUDIT REPORT HAS NOT BEEN REISSUED
BY ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP IN CONNECTION WITH THIS FILING ON FORM
10-K. SEE EXHIBIT 23.2 FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION.

WASTE MANAGEMENT, INC.

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(In millions)

EXHIBIT INDEX

*

In the case of incorporation by reference to
    documents filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
    Company’s file number under that Act is 1-12154.