ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The following risk factors could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and should be carefully considered in evaluating our business or making an investment decision involving our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, including overall economic and industry conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material also may materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Risks Related to our Plans to Improve Our Sales and Profitability and Restore our Economic Model

Our average restaurant sales and profitability will continue to fall short of our past results unless we can significantly increase comparable restaurant sales, and there are material risks to our ability to do so.

In 2016 we experienced lower total company sales than the preceding year for the first time in our history as a public company, and our average restaurant volumes declined from $2.532 million as of September 30, 2015 to$1.940million as of December 31, 2017.  To build our average restaurant sales we will need to increase comparable restaurant sales, which represent the change in period-over-period sales for restaurants beginning in their 13th full calendar month of operation. Changes in comparable restaurant sales are a critical factor affecting our profitability, because the profit margin on incremental comparable restaurant sales is generally higher due to the sales increases being applied against a partially fixed cost base. Conversely, declines in comparable restaurant sales, as we have seen in some periods over the past two years, have a significant adverse effect on profitability due to the loss of the positive impact on profit margins associated with comparable restaurant sales increases, while we continue to incur a certain level of fixed costs.

Our ability to increase comparable restaurant sales depends on many factors, including:

﻿

﻿

perceptions of the Chipotle brand and the safety and quality of our food, which may continue to be adversely impacted by actual or rumored food safety incidents or other adverse publicity, including as described below under “—We may continue to be negatively impacted by food safety incidents associated with our restaurants…”;

competition, especially from an increasing number of competitors in the fast casual segment of the restaurant industry and from other restaurant concepts whose strategies overlap with elements of our Food With Integrity philosophy, as well as from grocery stores, meal kit delivery services and other dining options;

our ability to increase menu prices without adversely impacting transaction counts to such a degree that the impact from lower transactions equals or exceeds the benefit of the menu price increase, and without “trade down” by customers or other reductions in average check in response to price increases;

executing our strategies effectively, including our marketing and branding strategies, our initiatives to expand the use of online and other digital ordering and increase sales from our catering options, our efforts to improve the overall quality of our customers’ experience and increase the speed at which our crews serve each customer, and our potential introduction of new menu items, each of which we may not be able to accomplish or which may not have the impact we expect;

changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending, including weaker consumer spending during periods of economic difficulty or uncertainty;

initial sales performance of new restaurants, and the impact of new Chipotle restaurants in the event customers who frequent one of our restaurants begin to visit one of our new restaurants instead, as further described below under “—Our new restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable…”;

weather, natural disasters and other factors limiting access to our restaurants; and

changes in government regulation that may impact customer perceptions of our food, including initiatives regarding menu labeling and marketing claims about the origin or makeup of some of the ingredients we serve.

﻿

These factors, most of which are described in more detail in additional Risk Factors below, are beyond our control to at least some degree. As a result, it is possible that we will experience future declines in comparable restaurant sales or that we otherwise will not achieve our targeted or expected comparable restaurant sales.  Any future declines in comparable restaurant sales or failure to meet









market expectations for comparable restaurant sales increases would likely result in a significant adverse impact on the price of our common stock.

Increasing our sales and profits depends in part on our ability to open new restaurants in sites and on terms attractive to us, which is subject to many unpredictable factors, and we plan to open fewer restaurants in 2018 than we have in prior years, which will adversely impact our sales growth.

We had 2,408 restaurants in operation as of December 31, 2017, and we plan to increase the number of our restaurants significantly. In 2018 we plan to open between 130 and 150 new restaurants, significantly fewer than in prior years. We have in the past experienced delays in opening some restaurants and that could happen again as a result of any one or more of the following factors:

﻿

﻿our potential inability to locate and secure new restaurant sites in locations that we believe to be attractive;obstacles to hiring and training top performing employees in the local market;difficulty managing construction and development costs of new restaurants, particularly in competitive markets or when real estate development activity is robust;delay or cancellation of new site development by developers and landlords, which may become increasingly common during periods of economic uncertainty, tight credit, and/or rising interest rates;difficulty ramping up the growth of our international business or new restaurant concepts, including for the reasons described below under “—Our expansion into international marketshas been limited, andmay present increased risks …” and “—Pizzeria Locale, Tasty Made and other new restaurant concepts may not contribute to our growth”;difficulty negotiating leases with acceptable terms;any shortages of construction labor or materials;failures or delays in securing required governmental approvals (including construction, parking and other permits);lack of availability of, or inability to obtain, adequate supplies of ingredients that meet our quality standards; andthe impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities.

﻿

One of our biggest challenges in opening new restaurants is staffing and training new restaurant teams. We seek to hire only top performing employees, train them extensively in order to ensure we provide an outstanding customer experience, and promote many general managers from our crew, all of which may make it more difficult for us to staff all the restaurants we intend to open. Constraints on our hiring new employees are described further below under “Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry—Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs…”

Another significant challenge is locating and securing an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. Competition for restaurant sites in our target markets can be intense, and development and leasing costs are increasing, particularly for urban locations. These factors could negatively impact our ability to manage our occupancy costs, which may adversely impact our profitability.  In addition, any of these factors may be exacerbated by economic factors, which may result in developers and contractors seeing increased demand and therefore driving our construction and leasing costs up.

If we are unable to open the number of new restaurants we plan, or if we decide to continue opening fewer new restaurants than we have in past years or delay or forego a significant number of planned restaurant openings, including due to any of the reasons set forth above, this could materially and adversely affect our growth strategy and our expected results. Moreover, as we open and operate more restaurants, our rate of expansion relative to the size of our existing restaurant base will decline, making it increasingly difficult to achieve levels of sales and profitability growth that we achieved prior to 2016.  We expect this effect to be more pronounced through at least 2018, given our plan to decrease the number of new restaurants we open during the year as compared to years past.

Our progress in opening new restaurants from quarter to quarter may also occur at an uneven rate, which may result in quarterly sales and profit growth falling short of market expectations in some periods.











Our new restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable, and may adversely impact the sales of our existing restaurants.

Historically, many of our new restaurants have opened with an initial ramp-up period typically lasting 24 months or more, during which they generate sales and income below the levels at which we expect them to normalize after the restaurant has built a customer base, and during which costs may be higher as we train new employees and adjust our food deliveries and preparation to sales volumes and peak-hour trends. If we are unable to build the customer base that we expect for new restaurant locations or overcome the higher fixed costs associated with new restaurant locations, new restaurants may not have results similar to those of our existing restaurants and may not be profitable.  Our new restaurant sales volumes since the fourth quarter of 2015 have also been negatively impacted by the food safety issues described elsewhere in this report and other adverse publicity, and as a result, the effect of new restaurants on our average restaurant sales over the past two years has been of greater magnitude than we have seen in the past.  This trend may continue into 2018 and beyond.

We have also opened restaurants in nearly all major metropolitan areas across the U.S. New restaurants opened in existing markets may adversely impact sales in previously-opened restaurants in the same market, as customers who frequent our established restaurants begin to visit a newly-opened restaurant instead. This impact could worsen as we open additional restaurants, and could make it more difficult for us to increase comparable restaurant sales and profitability. Existing restaurants could also make it more difficult to build the customer base for newly-opened restaurants in the same market, and could limit our growth potential if we determine that one or more of our nearby restaurants makes an otherwise viable new restaurant site unattractive to us.

In addition, in the event we are not able to contain increases in our average restaurant development costs, which could result from inflation, an increase in the proportion of higher cost locations, project mismanagement or other reasons, our new restaurant locations could also result in lower returns on our investment in new restaurants.

Finally, our new restaurant development activity has broadened recently to incorporate trade areas or types of restaurant sites in which we have little or no prior experience, including smaller or more economically mixed communities, highway sites, outlet centers, and restaurants in airports, food courts, or on military sites.  These types of sites may become more important to our restaurant growth strategy as we find fewer opportunities to open in traditional sites, given our past growth.  Many of these site types may involve additional costs that we do not incur in our more traditional restaurant sites, which will adversely impact the profitability of restaurants in these types of sites. The risks related to building a customer base and managing development and operating costs in some or all of these types of trade areas or restaurant sites may also be more significant than in our traditional sites, which could result in unexpected negative impacts on our new restaurant operating results.

We may continue to be negatively impacted by food safety incidents, and further instances of food-borne or localized illnesses associated with our restaurants would result in increased negative publicity and further adverse impacts on customer perceptions of our brand.

During late October and early November 2015, illnesses caused by E. coli bacteria were connected to a number of our restaurants, initially in Washington and Oregon, and subsequently to small numbers of our restaurants in as many as 12 other states. During the week of December 7, 2015, an unrelated incident involving norovirus was reported at a Chipotle restaurant in Brighton, Massachusetts, which worsened the adverse financial and operating impacts we experienced from the E. coli incident.  As a result of these incidents and related publicity, our sales and profitability were severely impacted throughout 2016.  In July 2017, cases of norovirus associated with a Chipotle restaurant in Sterling, Virginia had a further adverse impact on our sales, particularly throughout the mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions.  The significant amount of media coverage regarding these incidents, as well as the impact of social media (which was not in existence during many past food safety incidents involving other restaurant chains) in increasing the awareness of these incidents, may continue to negatively impact customer perceptions of our restaurants and brand, notwithstanding the high volume of food-borne illness cases from other sources across the country every day.  As a result our sales may not return to levels we were achieving prior to late 2015.











Our marketing and advertising strategies may not be successful, or may pose risks that could adversely impact our business.

In 2017, we hired a new advertising agency and media buyer, introduced a new advertising campaign and media strategies, including television advertising, and introduced queso, our first significant new menu item in a number of years.  We will continue to invest in marketing and advertising strategies that we believe will attract customers or increase their connection with our brand. If these investments do not drive increased restaurant sales, the expense associated with these programs will adversely impact our financial results, and we may not generate the levels of comparable restaurant sales we expect. Additionally, if our marketing and advertising strategies are not successful, we may be forced to engage in additional promotional activities to attract and retain customers, including buy-one get-one offers and other offers for free or discounted food, and any such promotional activities could adversely impact our profitability.

We also plan to continue to emphasize strategies such as remote ordering, new catering options, and delivery in an effort to increase overall sales. These efforts may not increase our sales to the degree we expect, or at all. We may also seek to introduce new menu items that may not generate the sales we expect.  Catering and other out-of-restaurant sales options, or new menu items, may also introduce new operating procedures to our restaurants and we may not successfully execute these procedures, which could adversely impact the customer experience in our restaurants and thereby harm our sales and customer perceptions of our brand.

In addition, some of our marketing has incorporated elements intended to encourage customers to question sources or production methods commonly used to produce food. These elements of our marketing could alienate food suppliers and other food industry groups and may potentially lead to an increased risk of disputes or litigation if suppliers or other constituencies believe our marketing is unfair or misleading. Increased costs in connection with any such issues, or any deterioration in our relationships with existing suppliers, could adversely impact us or our reputation. Furthermore, if these messages do not resonate with our customers or potential customers, the value of our brand may be eroded.

Our expansion into international markets has been limited, and may present increased risks due to lower customer awareness of our brand, our unfamiliarity with those markets and other factors.

As of December 31, 2017, 37 of our restaurants were located outside of the U.S., with 24 in Canada, six in the United Kingdom, six in France and one in Frankfurt, Germany. Our focus for the present time remains on expanding in North America, which limits our near-term growth potential.

As a result of our small number of restaurants outside the U.S. and the relatively short time we have been operating those restaurants, we have lower brand awareness and less operating experience in these markets, and our average restaurant sales and/or transaction counts may be lower in these markets than in the U.S. The markets in which we’ve opened restaurants outside the U.S., and any additional new markets we enter outside the U.S. in the future, have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our U.S. markets. As a result, new restaurants outside the U.S. may be less successful than restaurants in our existing markets. Specifically, due to lower consumer familiarity with the Chipotle brand, differences in customer tastes or spending patterns, or for other reasons, sales at restaurants opened outside the U.S. may take longer to ramp up and reach expected sales and profit levels, and may never do so, thereby affecting our overall growth and profitability. To build brand awareness in international markets, we may need to make greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned, which could negatively impact the profitability of our operations in those markets.

We may also find it more difficult in international markets to hire, train and keep top performing employees who can successfully deliver excellent customer experiences, and labor costs may be higher in international markets due to increased









regulation, higher employment taxes or social benefit costs or local market conditions. In addition, restaurants outside the U.S. have had higher construction, occupancy and food costs than restaurants in existing markets, and we may have difficulty finding reliable suppliers or distributors or ones that can provide us, either initially or over time, with adequate supplies of ingredients meeting our quality standards. Additional costs or difficulties from any of the foregoing factors may adversely impact the operating results of our international markets. Markets outside the U.S. may also have regulatory differences with the U.S. with which we are not familiar, or that subject us to significant additional expense or to which we are not able to successfully adapt, which may have a particularly adverse impact on our sales or profitability in those markets and could adversely impact our overall results. For example, a new privacy regulation in the European Union called the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, is scheduled to become effective in May 2018 and requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data, and failure to meet GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of our worldwide revenue. Our overall results may also be negatively affected by currency risk on the transactions in other currencies and translation adjustments resulting from the conversion of our international financial results into the U.S. dollar.

Pizzeria Locale, Tasty Made and other new restaurant concepts may not contribute to our growth.

We believe that the fundamental principles on which our restaurants are based – finding better ingredients, preparing them using classic techniques in front of the customer, and serving them in an interactive format with great teams dedicated to providing an excellent dining experience – can be adapted to cuisines other than the food served at Chipotle.

Notwithstanding our growth plans for Tasty Made, our investment in Pizzeria Locale, and exploration of other restaurant brand opportunities, our immediate focus will remain on thoughtfully growing the Chipotle brand. As a result, we do not expect Pizzeria Locale, Tasty Made or other concepts to contribute to our growth in a meaningful way for at least the next several years.  We may also determine not to move forward with any further expansion of Tasty Made or Pizzeria Locale. These decisions would each limit our overall growth potential over the long term as well. Additionally, the expansion of Tasty Made or Pizzeria Locale or investments in other restaurant concepts each might distract our management, which could have an adverse impact on our core Chipotle business.

Our failure to manage our restaurant growth effectively could harm our business and operating results.

As described elsewhere in this report, our plans call for a significant number of new restaurants. Our existing restaurant management systems, financial and management controls, information systems and personnel may be inadequate to support our expansion, and managing our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls, as well as to hire, train and retain general managers, crew and corporate staff. We also are continuing to attempt to improve our field management in an effort to improve restaurant operations and develop additional top performing general managers more quickly. We may not respond quickly enough to the changing demands that our restaurant growth imposes on management, crew and existing infrastructure, and changes to our operating structure may result in increased costs or inefficiencies that we cannot currently anticipate. We have also historically placed a great deal of importance on restaurant cultures, which we believe needs to be redirected to focus more on effective training of our team to deliver excellent customer experiences. As we grow our number of restaurants, additional shifts in our cultural or operational focus may harm morale in our restaurants or prove distracting to our restaurant employees, which could adversely impact our business and operating results.

Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry

Competition could adversely affect us.

The fast-casual, quick-service and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, taste, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, brand reputation, and the ambience and condition of each restaurant. Our competition includes a variety of restaurants in each of these segments, including locally-owned restaurants and









national and regional chains. Many of our competitors offer dine-in, carry-out, online, catering and delivery services. Among our main competitors are a number of multi-unit, multi-market Mexican food or burrito restaurant concepts, some of which are expanding nationally. In recent years, competition has also increased significantly from restaurant formats like ours that serve higher quality food quickly and at a reasonable price.

Moreover, we may also compete with companies outside the fast casual and quick service and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry. For example, competitive pressures can come from deli sections and in-store cafés of several major grocery store chains, including those targeted at customers who want higher-quality food, as well as from convenience stores, cafeterias and other dining outlets. Meal kit delivery companies and other eat-at-home options also present some degree of competition for our restaurants.  In addition, our strategy includes opening additional restaurants in existing markets, and as we do so sales may decline in our previously-opened restaurants as customers who frequent our established restaurants begin to visit a newly-opened restaurant instead.

We believe that competition from all of the foregoing has made it more challenging to maintain or increase the frequency of our customer visits, and that those competitive pressures will continue or increase in the future.

Many of our competitors have existed longer than we have and may have a more established market presence with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we have. These and other competitors may attract customers with, among other things, a more diverse menu, lower operating costs and prices, better locations, better facilities, better management, more effective marketing and more efficient operations than we have.

Additionally, although we continue to believe that Chipotle can differentiate itself with our commitment to higher-quality and responsibly-sourced ingredients,competitors have increasingly made claims related to the quality of their ingredients, or distinctions between artificial and natural flavors, colors and preservatives.  The increasing use of these claims in the marketplace, even if the substantive basis for some of them may be questionable, may lessen our differentiation and make it more difficult for us to compete.Some of these competitors and other fast casual concepts have sought to duplicate various elements of our business operations, and more chains may copy us to varying degrees in the future.

Several of our competitors also compete by offering menu items that are specifically identified as low in carbohydrates, better for customers or otherwise targeted at particular consumer preferences. Many of our competitors in the fast-casual and quick-service segments of the restaurant industry also emphasize lower-cost, “value meal” menu options, a strategy we do not currently pursue. Our sales may be adversely affected by these and other competing products, or by price competition more generally.

Any of these competitive factors may adversely affect us and reduce our sales and profits.

Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or difficulties in finding, training and retaining top performing employees.

Labor is a primary component of our operating costs, and we believe good managers and crew and outstanding training are key parts of our success. Increased labor costs due to factors such as competition for workers and labor market pressures, increased minimum wage requirements, paid sick leave or vacation accrual mandates, or changes in our restaurant staffing structure have and may continue to adversely impact our operating costs. Many companies, both in the restaurant industry and in other industries with which we compete for employees, have implemented company-wide or targeted increases in starting wages or other enhancements to their compensation and benefit programs, and we may need to act similarly to continue to attract employees.  For instance, in 2018 we plan to increase benefits to salaried and hourly managers, including additional paid leave, short term disability coverage, and a one-time cash bonus to all restaurant employees, which will increase our labor costs.These enhancements, and any further increases in labor costs associated with additional market pressures on wages or other factors, will adversely impact our operating results.

Moreover, if our managers do not schedule our restaurant crews efficiently, our restaurants may be overstaffed at some times, which adversely impacts our labor costs as a percentage of revenue, decreasing our operating margins.  Efficient staffing may continue to be a challenge in 2018 due to continued volatility and uncertainty in our sales trends.Additional taxes or requirements to incur additional employee benefits expenses could also adversely impact our labor costs.  And during 2018, we expect to hire a greater proportion of our restaurant managers from outside our company than we have in the past.  These employees may be more expensive to hire and train than managers promoted from crew, and we may not successfully integrate them into our restaurant teams, which could adversely impact our operations.

In addition, our success in delivering excellent customer experiences depends substantially on the energy and skills of our employees and our ability to hire, train, motivate and keep qualified employees, especially general managers and crew members. Turnover among our restaurant crews and managers has been frequent, and we aim to reduce turnover in an effort to keep top









performing employees and better realize our investment in training new employees. Failure to do so will adversely impact our operating results by increasing training costs and making it more difficult to deliver outstanding customer experiences. Our failure to find and keep enough high-caliber employees could also delay planned restaurant openings, which would slow our growth.

Because we do not franchise, risks associated with hiring and maintaining a large workforce, including increases in wage rates or the cost of employee benefits, compliance with laws and regulations related to the hiring, payment and termination of employees, and employee-related litigation, may be more pronounced for us than for restaurant companies at which some or all of these risks are borne by franchisees or other operating contractors.

Changes in food and supply costs could adversely affect our results of operations.

Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Like all restaurant companies, we are susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather conditions, global demand, food safety concerns, generalized infectious diseases, fluctuations of the U.S. dollar, product recalls and government regulations. The cost of many basic foods for humans and animals, including corn, wheat, rice and cooking oils, has increased markedly in some years, resulting in upward pricing pressures on almost all of our raw ingredients including chicken, beef, tortillas and rice. In 2017, a significant rise in avocado prices adversely impacted our food costs for most of the year, and there could be similar or greater pricing pressure on key ingredients in future periods.  Costs have also increased from the enhanced food safety procedures described elsewhere in this report. Additionally, a substantial volume of produce items are grown in Mexico and other countries, and some of our meats and restaurant supplies are sourced from outside the U.S. as well.  Any new or increased import duties, tariffs or taxes, or other changes in U.S. trade or tax policy, could result in higher food and supply costs that would adversely impact our financial results.

We could also be adversely impacted by price increases specific to meats raised in accordance with our sustainability and animal welfare criteria or other food items we buy as part of our Food With Integrity focus, the markets for which are generally smaller and more concentrated than the markets for food products that are conventionally raised and grown. Weather related issues, such as freezes or drought, may also lead to temporary spikes in the prices of some ingredients such as produce or meats. Increasing weather volatility or other long-term changes in global weather patterns, including any changes associated with global climate change, could have a significant impact on the price or availability of some of our ingredients. Any increase in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our menu, such as chicken, beef, cheese, avocados, beans, rice, tomatoes and pork, would have a particularly adverse effect on our operating results. Alternatively, in the event of cost increases with respect to one or more of our raw ingredients, we may choose to temporarily suspend serving menu items, such as guacamole or one or more of our salsas, rather than paying the increased cost for the ingredients. Any such changes to our available menu may negatively impact our restaurant traffic and comparable restaurant sales, and could also have an adverse impact on our brand.











Food safety scares could adversely affect customer perceptions of, or the price or availability of, ingredients we use to prepare our food, which may adversely impact our sales.

Changes we have made in our operations, or that we make in the future, to further enhance the safety of the food we serve will adversely impact our financial performance and may negatively impact customer perception of our brand.

As a result of the food safety incidents described elsewhere in this report, we have implemented a number of enhancements to our food safety protocols to ensure that our food is as safe as it can be.  Many of our enhanced procedures, which go beyond the industry-standard food safety practices that we were previously following, increase the cost of some ingredients or the amount of labor required to prepare and serve our food.  If we aren’t able to sufficiently increase sales to offset the increased costs resulting from these changes, our margins will fall well short of levels we have historically achieved.  Even if we were to restore sales to levels we were achieving prior to the fourth quarter of 2015, the increased costs from these changes are likely to result in lower margins than we were able to achieve in the past.

Additionally, some of the enhanced food safety procedures we have introduced or may introduce in the future rely on increased use of centralized food preparation, additional in-restaurant preparation steps, or new ingredients, some or all of which may be inconsistent with previous customer perceptions of our restaurant operations.  To the extent customers perceive any of these developments as a move away from our Food With Integrity strategy and/or towards a more traditional fast food experience, our ability to win back customers may be adversely impacted and our sales may decline or recover more slowly than they otherwise would have.  Furthermore, even the most advanced food safety measures cannot eliminate all food safety risks from a restaurant environment.  For risks related to any future food safety incidents associated with our restaurants, see “Risks Related to our Plans to Improve Our Sales and Profitability and Restore our Economic Model – We may continue to be negatively impacted by food safety incidents, and further instances of food-borne or localized illnesses associated with our restaurants would result in increased negative publicity and further adverse impacts on customer perceptions of our brand.”

Failure to receive frequent deliveries of higher-quality food ingredients and other supplies meeting our specifications could harm our operations.

Our ability to maintain our menu depends in part on our ability to acquire ingredients that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of ingredients caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, food contamination (which we may detect more frequently under the microbiological testing protocols we’ve recently introduced), inclement weather, a supplier ceasing operations or deciding not to follow our required protocols, or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of our ingredients, which could harm our operations. In particular, shortages of one or more of our menu items could force our restaurants to remove items from their menus, which may result in customers choosing to eat elsewhere.  If that happens, our affected restaurants could experience significant reductions in sales during the menu item shortage, and potentially thereafter if customers do not return to us after the shortage is resolved. Our focus on a limited menu would make the consequences of a shortage of a key ingredient more severe to us than at other restaurants.

For many of our food ingredients and other supplies we do not have long-term contracts with suppliers, and we have relied largely on a third party distribution network with a limited number of distribution partners. If any of our distributors or suppliers performs inadequately, or our distribution or supply relationships are disrupted for any reason, the risk of ingredient shortages may increase and our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. We currently depend on a limited number of suppliers for some of our key ingredients, including beef, pork, chicken, tofu, beans, rice, sour cream, cheese, and tortillas. Due to the unique nature of the products we receive from our Food With Integrity suppliers and as described in more detail below under “Risks Related to Our Unique Business Strategy—Our Food With Integrity philosophy subjects us to risks,” these









suppliers could be more difficult to replace if we were no longer able to rely on them. If we have to seek new suppliers and service providers, we may be subject to pricing or other terms less favorable than those we currently enjoy. If we cannot replace or engage distributors or suppliers who meet our specifications in a short period of time, that could increase our expenses and cause shortages of food and other items at our restaurants, which could cause a restaurant to remove items from its menu.  If that were to happen and customers change their dining habits as a result, affected restaurants could experience significant reductions in sales during the shortage or thereafter.  Our focus on a limited menu would make the consequences of a shortage of a key ingredient more severe.

In the first quarter of 2015, through our ongoing auditing of suppliers, we identified a pork supplier that was not meeting our standards and suspended purchases of pork from this supplier. Without this supply, we did not have enough pork meeting our specifications for all of our restaurants and a large number of our restaurants were not serving carnitas for a number of months during 2015.  We believe our comparable restaurant sales were adversely impacted as a result, as customers chose to eat elsewhere rather than substituting a different one of our menu items for carnitas.

Changes in customer tastes and preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends could cause sales to decline.

Changes in customer preferences, general economic conditions, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants affect the restaurant industry. Our sales could be impacted by changes in consumer preferences in response to dietary concerns, including preferences regarding items such as calories, sodium, carbohydrates or fat. These changes could result in consumers avoiding our menu items in favor of other foods, and our focus on a limited menu could make the consequences of a change in consumer preferences more severe than our competitors may face. Some customers could also avoid freshly-prepared foods like those we serve, based on concerns regarding food safety.  This may be more likely to impact us as a result of the widely-publicized food safety incidents we experienced beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015.

Our success also depends to a significant extent on consumer confidence, which is influenced by general economic conditions and discretionary income levels. Our average restaurant sales may decline during economic downturns or periods of uncertainty, which can be caused by various factors such as high unemployment, increasing taxes, interest rates, or other changes in fiscal or monetary policy, high gasoline prices, declining home prices, tight credit markets or foreign political or economic unrest. Any material decline in consumer confidence or a decline in family “food away from home” spending could cause our sales, operating results, profits, business or financial condition to decline. If we fail to adapt to changes in customer preferences and trends, we may lose customers and our sales may deteriorate.

If we were to experience widespread difficulty renewing existing leases on favorable terms, our revenue or occupancy costs could be adversely affected.

We lease substantially all of the properties on which we operate restaurants, and some of our leases are due for renewal or extension options in the next several years. Some leases are subject to renewal at fair market value, which could involve substantial increases, and a smaller number expire without any renewal option. While we currently expect to pursue the renewal of substantially all of our expiring restaurant leases, any difficulty renewing a significant number of such leases, or any substantial increase in rents associated with lease renewals, could adversely impact us. If we have to close any restaurants due to difficulties in renewing leases, we would lose revenue from the affected restaurants and may not be able to open suitable replacement restaurants. Conversely, substantial increases in rents associated with lease renewals would increase our occupancy costs, reducing our restaurant margins.

Risks Related to our Unique Business Strategy

We may not persuade customers of the benefits of paying our prices for higher-quality food.

Our success depends in large part on our ability to persuade customers that food made with higher-quality ingredients is worth the prices they will pay at our restaurants relative to prices offered by some of our competitors, particularly those in the quick-service restaurant segment. We may not successfully educate customers about the quality of our food, and customers may not care even if they do understand our approach. That could require us to change our pricing, advertising or promotional strategies, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or the brand identity that we have tried to create. Additionally, it will likely be more difficult for us to persuade the public about the quality and value of our food following the food-borne illnesses we experienced in 2015 and the associated deterioration of customer perceptions about our brand, and we cannot predict when those perceptions will improve, if ever.  If customers are not persuaded that we offer a good value for their money, our restaurant transaction counts could be adversely affected, which would negatively impact our business results.











Our Food With Integrity philosophy subjects us to risks.

Additionally, in response to increasing customer awareness and demand, some competitors have also begun to advertise their use of meats raised without the use of antibiotics or growth hormones, dairy products from cows not treated with rBGH, and other ingredients similar to those we seek as part of our Food With Integrity philosophy. If competitors become known for using these types of higher-quality or more sustainable ingredients, it could further limit our supply of these ingredients, and may make it more difficult for us to differentiate Chipotle and our restaurants, which could adversely impact our operating results.

Our success may depend on the continued service and availability of key personnel, and upcoming changes in our management team may not provide the benefits we expect.

Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Ells founded our company, has been the principal architect of our business strategy, and has led our growth from a single restaurant in 1993 to over 2,400 restaurants today.  Jack Hartung, our Chief Financial Officer, has also served with us since early in our company’s history, and much of our growth has occurred under his direction as well. Additionally, Mark Crumpacker, our Chief Marketing and Strategy Officer, who has played a role in our marketing and branding efforts for many years and who has been an executive officer since joining us full time in January 2009, has been instrumental in formulating strategies to help us rebuild our business.  Curt Garner, who joined us as Chief Information Officer in November 2015, has had a key role in developing and executing our digital/mobile ordering platforms and strategy, and we believe these and other technology innovations will become increasingly important in helping us return to sales and profitability growth.  And Scott Boatwright, who joined us as Chief Restaurant Officer in May 2017, has led our recent efforts to improve the guest experience in our restaurants, which we also believe will be critical in attracting new and lapsed customers.

In December 2017, we announced that we have initiated a search for a new Chief Executive Officer, and that Mr. Ells will transition to the role of Executive Chairman of the Board upon the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer.  It may be difficult to identify and attract a Chief Executive Officer candidate who meets our needs and is able to grasp and implement our unique









strategic vision. In addition, we believe our current executive officers, each of whom is an at-will employee, are creating a business strategy and culture at our company that will position us for future success, and these features may be difficult to replicate under another management team. If a new Chief Executive Officer does not successfully continue our business strategy or implement new strategies to improve our business, or if the change in Chief Executive Officer or other factors result in other changes to our senior leadership team, our growth prospects or future operating results may be adversely impacted.  Additionally, if our company culture or operations were to deteriorate following our upcoming change in leadership, we may be adversely impacted as well.

Regulatory and Legal Risks

Governmental regulation in one or more of the following areas may adversely affect our existing and future operations and results, including by harming our ability to open new restaurants or increasing our operating costs.

Employment and Immigration Regulations

We also are audited from time to time for compliance with work authorization requirements, and audit activity and federal criminal and civil investigations in this area are described in more detail above under “

Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry

—

Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or difficulties in finding and retaining top performing employees,

” as well as in Note 10. “Commitments and Contingencies” in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Unauthorized workers may subject us to fines or penalties, and if any of our workers are found to be unauthorized our business may be disrupted as we try to replace lost workers with additional qualified employees. On the other hand, in the event we wrongfully reject work authorization documents, or if our compliance procedures are found to have a disparate impact on a protected class such as a racial minority or based on the citizenship status of applicants, we could be found to be in violation of anti-discrimination laws. We could experience adverse publicity arising from enforcement activity related to work authorization compliance, anti-discrimination compliance, or both, that negatively impacts our brand and may make it more difficult to hire and keep qualified employees. Moreover, as described above under “

Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry

—

Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or difficulties in finding and retaining top performing employees,

” the office of the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigated us for possible criminal and civil securities law violations relating to our employee work authorization compliance and related disclosures and statements as well. Any potential future investigations in this area may be expensive and distracting, and could subject us to fines, reputational damage, and other liabilities that could be significant.

Additionally, while we do not currently have any unionized employees, union organizers have engaged in efforts to organize our employees and those of other restaurant companies. If a significant portion of our employees were to become union organized, our labor costs could increase and our efforts to maintain a culture appealing only to top performing employees could be impaired. Potential changes in labor laws, including the possible passage of legislation designed to make it easier for employees to unionize, could increase the likelihood of some or all of our employees being subjected to greater organized labor influence, and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results by imposing requirements that could potentially increase our costs, reduce our flexibility and impact our employee culture.

Americans with Disabilities Act and Similar State Laws

We are subject to the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. We have incurred substantial legal fees in connection with ADA-related complaints in the past, and we may in the future have to modify restaurants, for example by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural features, to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for









disabled persons under these laws. The expenses associated with these modifications, or any damages, legal fees and costs associated with litigating or resolving claims under the ADA or similar state laws, could be material.

Nutrition and Food Regulation

In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus at the federal, state and municipal levels on the food industry including nutrition and advertising practices. Restaurants operating in the quick-service and fast-casual segments have been a particular focus. For example, the State of California, New York City and a number of other jurisdictions around the U.S. have adopted regulations requiring that chain restaurants include calorie information on their menu boards or make other nutritional information available, and nation-wide nutrition disclosure requirements included in the U.S. health care reform law are scheduled to go into effect on May 7, 2018. These nutrition disclosure requirements may increase our expenses or slow customers as they move through the line, decreasing our throughput. These initiatives may also change customer buying habits in a way that adversely impacts our sales, and could subject us to liability if we make errors in calculating or disclosing the required information.

Privacy/Cybersecurity

We are required to collect and maintain personal information about our employees, and we collect information about customers as part of some of our marketing programs as well. The collection and use of such information is regulated at the federal and state levels, and by the European Union and its member states, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is evolving and increasingly demanding.



Significant new privacy regulation in the European Union is further described above under “

Risks Related to our Plans to Improve Our Sales and Profitability and Restore our Economic Model – Our expansion into international markets has been limited, and may present increased risks due to lower customer awareness of our brand, our unfamiliarity with those markets and other factors.

”   At the same time, we are relying increasingly on cloud computing and other technologies that result in third parties holding significant amounts of customer or employee information on our behalf. If our security and information systems or those of outsourced third party providers we use to store or process such information are compromised, or if we or such third parties otherwise fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face litigation and the imposition of penalties that could adversely affect our financial performance. Our reputation as a brand or as an employer could also be adversely affected from these types of security breaches or regulatory violations, which could impair our sales or ability to attract and keep qualified employees. Additional risks related to cybersecurity are described below under “

General Business Risks-We may be harmed by security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer and employee information.

”

Local Licensure, Zoning and Other Regulation

Each of our restaurants is also subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, alcoholic beverage, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. We may experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new restaurants, which could delay planned restaurant openings. In addition, stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations.

Environmental Laws

We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, as well as local ordinances restricting the types of packaging we can use in our restaurants. We have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of our properties or operations. We have, however, conducted investigations of some of our properties and identified contamination caused by third-party operations. We believe any such contamination has been or should be addressed by the third party. If the relevant third party does not address or has not addressed the identified contamination properly or completely, then under certain environmental laws, we could be held liable as an owner or operator to address any remaining contamination, sometimes without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the release or presence of hazardous or toxic substances. Any such liability could be material. Further, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our properties, and any such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations or results of operations. We also cannot predict what environmental laws will be enacted in the future, how existing or future environmental laws will be administered or interpreted, or the amount of future expenditures that we may need to make to comply with, or to satisfy claims relating to, environmental laws.

Other Aspects of Regulatory Risk

From time to time we are the target of litigation in connection with various laws and regulations that cover our business. Much of this litigation occurs in California even though currently only about 17% of our restaurants are located there. As we continue to









expand in California, or if we are not able to effectively manage the increased litigation risks and expenses we have experienced in California, our business may be adversely impacted to a greater extent than if we did not operate in, or minimized our operations in, California.

Because we do not franchise, the costs of compliance and other risks associated with government regulation of our business, as described above, may be more pronounced for us than for restaurant companies at which some or all of these risks are borne by franchisees or other operating contractors.

Regulatory actions and litigation related to food safety incidents that impacted us beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015 may adversely impact us.

We are facing an ongoing government investigation into food safety incidents and related compliance measures, as described in Note 10. “Commitments and Contingencies” in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  We also have received numerous claims from customers who were or claim to have been impacted by food safety incidents associated with our restaurants, and a number of those claimants have filed lawsuits against us.  We are cooperating in the government investigation and with many of the customers impacted by these incidents, but will continue to incur significant legal and other costs in doing so. We have also been sued in a shareholder class action lawsuit in connection with the decline in our stock price in the wake of the food safety incidents, and defending this lawsuit will subject us to significant legal expense.  Additionally, the liabilities from customer claims and related litigation expenses may be greater than we anticipate due to the uncertainties inherent in litigation.  All of these costs, liabilities and expenses will negatively impact our operating results. Moreover, publicity regarding any legal proceedings related to food safety incidents may increase or prolong consumer awareness of the incidents or otherwise negatively impact perceptions of our brand, which may hamper our ability to regain lost sales or attract new customers to our restaurants.

We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by distracting management, increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies.

We’re subject to numerous claims alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, including wages, work hours, overtime, vacation and family leave, discrimination, wrongful termination, and similar matters, and we could become subject to class action or other lawsuits related to these or different matters in the future. Our customers also occasionally file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we’re responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants, or that we have problems with food quality, operations or our food related disclosure or advertising practices. See “—

Governmental regulation in one or more of the following areas may adversely affect our existing and future operations and results, including by harming our ability to open new restaurants or increasing our operating costs

” above, for additional discussion of these types of claims. From time to time, we also face claims alleging that technology we use in our business infringes patents held by third parties. In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to a growing number of claims based on the nutritional content of food products sold and disclosure and advertising practices. We have been subject to a number of these actions and may be subject to additional actions of this type in the future. We are also undergoing government investigations and have been sued in a shareholder class action lawsuit, each as described elsewhere in this report, including in Note 10. “Commitments and Contingencies” in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and these matters may be particularly expensive to defend and/or resolve.

We believe the number of many of the foregoing types of claims has increased as our business has grown and we have become more visible to potential plaintiffs and their lawyers, particularly in California. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we’re ultimately held liable for such claims, they may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A significant judgment for any claims against us could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations, whether directed at us or at fast casual or quick-service restaurants generally, may also materially and adversely affect our reputation or prospects, which in turn could adversely affect our results.

General Business Risks

We may be harmed by security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer and employee information.

We accept electronic payment cards for payment in our restaurants. During 2017 approximately 73% of our sales were attributable to credit and debit card transactions, and credit and debit card usage could continue to increase. A number of retailers have experienced actual or potential security breaches in which credit and debit card information may have been stolen, including a number of highly publicized incidents with well-known retailers in recent years.











In April 2017, our information security team detected unauthorized activity on the network that supports payment processing for our restaurants, and immediately began an investigation with the help of leading computer security firms.  We also self-reported the issue to payment card processors and law enforcement.  Our investigationdetected malware designed to access payment card data from cards used at point-of-sale devices at most Chipotle restaurants, primarily in the period from March 24, 2017 through April 18, 2017.  We have removed the malware from our systems and continue to work to enhance our security measures.However, we expect to be subject to payment card network assessments and may incur regulatory fines or penalties, for which our insurance coverage is limited, and as a result, we recorded a $30 million estimated liability. We may ultimately be subject to liabilities greater than or less than the amount accrued. See Note 10. “Commitments and Contingencies” included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for further discussion of potential liabilities and pending litigation filed against us in connection with this incident.

We may be subject to additional lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to the incident or any future incidents in which payment card data may have been compromised.  Proceedings related to theft of credit or debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit) and federal and state regulators. Any such proceedings could distract our management from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenses. Consumer perception of our brand could also be negatively affected by these events, which could further adversely affect our results and prospects.

If we experience a significant failure in or interruption of certain key information technology systems, our business could be adversely impacted.











Negative publicity relating to our restaurants or our company could adversely impact our reputation, which may significantly harm us.

The adverse impact of publicity on customers’ perception of us could have a further negative impact on our sales. If the impact of any such publicity is particularly long-lasting, the value of our brand may suffer and our ability to grow could be diminished. Additionally, negative publicity about our employment practices may affect our reputation among employees and potential employees, which could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain top performing employees. That could adversely impact the quality of the customer experience we can offer and our operations generally, and may increase our labor costs as well.

Our insurance coverage and self-insurance reserves may not cover future claims.

We maintain various insurance policies for employee health, workers’ compensation, general liability, property damage and auto liability. We are self-insured for our employee health plans but have third party insurance coverage to limit exposure for both individual and aggregate claim costs. We are also responsible for losses up to a certain limit for workers’ compensation, general liability, property damage, employment practices liability and auto liability insurance.

For policies under which we are responsible for losses, we record a liability that represents our estimated cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet date. Our estimated liability is not discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical trends, actuarial assumptions and economic conditions, and is closely monitored and adjusted when warranted by changing circumstances. Our history of claims experience is relatively short and our significant growth during most of our operating history could affect the accuracy of estimates based on historical experience. If a greater amount of claims occurs compared to what we estimated, or if medical costs increase beyond what we expected, our accrued liabilities might not be sufficient and we may be required to record additional expense. Unanticipated changes may also produce materially different amounts of expense than reported under these programs, which could adversely impact our results of operations.  It is also possible that losses covered under one or more of our insurance policies may exceed the applicable policy limits, which would subject us to unexpected additional liabilities in an amount that could be significant enough to have a material adverse effect on our financial position.

We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business.

Our ability to successfully implement our business plan depends in part on our ability to further build brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos, our Food With Integrity strategy and the unique ambience of our restaurants. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either in print or on the internet, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. We are aware of restaurants in foreign jurisdictions using menu items, logos and other branding that we believe are based on our intellectual property, and our ability to halt these restaurants from using these elements may be limited in jurisdictions in which we are not operating. This could have an adverse impact on our ability to successfully expand into other jurisdictions in the future. We may also encounter claims from prior users of similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations. This could harm our image, brand or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs.











Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to various factors.

Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and could fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors because of factors including:

﻿

﻿

changes in comparable restaurant sales and customer visits, including as a result of perceptions about our brand, competition, changes in consumer confidence or discretionary spending, and other factors listed in these Risk Factors;

additional negative publicity about the occurrence of food-borne illnesses, the ingredients we use, or other problems at our restaurants;

fluctuations in supply costs, particularly for our most significant food items, including increased ingredient costs as a result of changes we’ve made to enhance the safety of our food;

labor availability and wages of restaurant management and crew, as well as temporary fluctuations in labor costs as a result of large-scale changes in workforce;

increases in marketing or promotional expenses as we introduce new marketing programs and strategies, or increased spending on existing marketing programs in an effort to drive sales;

our ability to raise menu prices without adversely impacting customer traffic, particularly if food and labor costs were to increase;

the timing of new restaurant openings and related revenues and expenses;

operating costs at newly opened restaurants, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation;

the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities, such as freezes that have impacted produce crops and droughts that have impacted livestock and the supply of certain meats;

variations in general economic conditions, including the impact of declining interest rates on our interest income;

increases in infrastructure costs;

litigation, settlement costs and related legal expense;

tax expenses, impairment charges and non-operating costs; and

potential distraction or unusual expenses associated with our expansion into international markets or initiatives to expand new concepts.

﻿

Seasonal factors also cause our results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our restaurant sales are typically lower during the winter months and the holiday season and during periods of inclement weather (because fewer people are eating out) and higher during the spring, summer and fall months (for the opposite reason). Our restaurant sales will also vary as a result of the number of trading days—that is, the number of days in a quarter when a restaurant is open.

As a result of these factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Average restaurant sales or comparable restaurant sales in any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to fall. This risk may continue to be a greater concern during 2018, as analyst and investor expectations for improvements in our business results may be higher than the level of results we actually achieve.

Additionally, we believe the market price of our common stock, which has generally traded at a higher price-earnings ratio than stocks of most or all of our peer companies, has typically reflected high market expectations for our future operating results. The trading market for our common stock has been volatile at times as well, including during the recent past as a result of adverse publicity events. As a result, if we fail to meet market expectations for our operating results in the future, any resulting decline in the price of our common stock could be significant.

Our anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.

Certain provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated









bylaws contain some provisions that may make the acquisition of control of us without the approval of our board of directors more difficult, including provisions relating to the nomination, election and removal of directors, the structure of the board of directors and limitations on actions by our shareholders. In addition, Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Any of these provisions may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may have otherwise presented a premium to our shareholders.

