ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

The following risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and should be carefully considered in evaluating our business or making an investment decision involving our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, including, but not limited to, overall economic and industry conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Risks Related to our Plans to Grow Our Sales and Improve Profitability

Our sales and profitability growth depends on our ability to increase comparable restaurant sales, and there are material risks to our ability to do so.

To grow our average restaurant sales, we will need to increase comparable restaurant sales, which represent the change in period-over-period sales for restaurants beginning in their 13th full calendar month of operation. Changes in comparable restaurant sales are a critical factor affecting our profitability, because the profit margin on incremental comparable restaurant sales is generally higher due to the sales increases being applied against a partially fixed cost base. Conversely, declines in comparable restaurant sales, as we have seen in some periods over the past three years, have a significant adverse effect on profitability due to the loss of the positive impact on profit margins associated with comparable restaurant sales increases, while we continue to incur a certain level of fixed costs.

Our ability to increase comparable restaurant sales depends on many factors, including:

·perceptions of the Chipotle brand and the safety and quality of our food, which may continue to be adversely impacted by actual or rumored food safety incidents or other adverse publicity, including as described below under “—We may continue to be negatively impacted by food safety incidents…”;

·competition, especially from an increasing number of competitors in the fast-casual segment of the restaurant industry and from other restaurant concepts whose strategies overlap with elements of our Food With Integrity philosophy, as well as from grocery stores, meal kit delivery services and other dining options;

·our ability to increase menu prices without adversely impacting transaction counts to such a degree that the impact from lower transactions equals or exceeds the benefit of the menu price increase, and without “trade down” by guests or other reductions in average check in response to such price increases;

·executing our strategies effectively, including our marketing and branding strategies, our initiatives to expand the use of mobile and other digital ordering and increase sales from our delivery orders and catering options, our efforts to improve the overall quality of our guests’ experience and increase the speed at which our crews serve each guest, and our potential introduction of new menu items, each of which we may not be able to accomplish or which may not have the impact we expect;

·changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending, including weaker consumer spending during periods of economic difficulty or uncertainty;

·initial sales performance of new restaurants, and the impact of new Chipotle restaurants in the event guests who frequent one of our restaurants begin to visit one of our new restaurants instead, as further described below under “—Our new restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable…”;

·weather, natural disasters and other factors limiting access to our restaurants; and

·changes in government regulation that may impact consumer perceptions of our food, including initiatives regarding menu labeling and marketing claims about the origin or makeup of some of the ingredients we serve.

﻿

These factors, most of which are described in more detail in additional risk factors below, are beyond our control to at least some degree. As a result, it is possible that we will not achieve our targeted or expected comparable restaurant sales in the future, or may even experience declines in comparable restaurant sales in the future.  Any declines in comparable restaurant sales or failure to meet market expectations for comparable restaurant sales increases would likely result in a significant adverse impact on the price of our common stock.

Increasing our sales and profits depends in part on our ability to open new restaurants in sites and on terms attractive to us, which is subject to many unpredictable factors, and we plan to open fewer restaurants in 2019 than we have in many prior years, which will adversely impact our sales growth rate.

We had 2,491 restaurants in operation as of December 31, 2018, and we plan to increase the number of our restaurants significantly. In 2019 we plan to open between 140 and 155 new restaurants,which isfewer thanthe number of restaurants opened per









yearinmanyprior years. We have in the past experienced delays in opening some restaurants and that could happen again as a result of any one or more of the following factors:

·our potential inability to locate and secure new restaurant sites in locations that we believe to be attractive;

·obstacles to hiring and training top performing employees in the local market;

·difficulty managing construction and development costs of new restaurants, particularly in competitive markets or when real estate development activity is robust;

·delay or cancellation of new site development by developers and landlords, which may become increasingly common during periods of economic uncertainty, tight credit, and/or rising interest rates;

·any shortages of construction labor or materials;

·difficulty ramping up the growth of our international business or new restaurant concepts, including for the reasons described below under“—Our expansion into international markets has been limited, and may present increased risks …” and “—Risks Unique to our Business Strategy—Pizzeria Locale and other new restaurant concepts may not contribute to our growth”;

·difficulty negotiating leases with acceptable terms;

·failures or delays in securing required governmental approvals (including construction, parking and other permits);

·lack of availability of, or inability to obtain, adequate supplies of ingredients that meet our quality standards; and

·the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities.

﻿

One of our biggest challenges in opening new restaurants is staffing and training new restaurant teams. We seek to hire only top performing employees, train them extensively in order tohelpensure we provide an outstanding guest experience, and promote many general managers from our crew, all of which may make it more difficult for us to staff all the restaurants we intend to open. Constraints on our hiring new employees are described further below under “—Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry—Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs…”

Another significant challenge is locating and securing an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. Competition for restaurant sites in our target markets can be intense, and development and leasing costs are increasing, particularly for urban locations. These factors could negatively impact our ability to manage our occupancy costs, which may adversely impact our profitability.  In addition, any of these factors may be exacerbated by economic factors, which may result in developers and contractors seeing increased demand and therefore drivingupour construction and leasing costs. Moreover, as we open and operate more restaurants, our rate of expansion relative to the size of our existing restaurant base will decline, making it increasingly difficult to achieve levels of sales and profitability growth that we achieved prior to 2016.  We expect this effect to be more pronounced through at least 2019, given our plan to decrease the number of new restaurants we open during the year as compared tothe number of restaurants opened per year inmany past years.

Our progress in opening new restaurants from quarter to quarter may also occur at an uneven rate, which may result in quarterly sales and profit growth falling short of market expectations in some periods.

If we are unable to open the number of new restaurants we planto open, or if we decide to continue opening fewer new restaurants than we have in past years or delay or forego a significant number of planned restaurant openings, including due to any of the reasons set forth above, this would adversely affect our growth.  Any resulting decrease in our sales growth rate or investor expectations for our future growth may result in declines in the price of our common stock.

Our new restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable, and may adversely impact the sales of our existing restaurants.

Historically, many of our new restaurants have opened with an initial ramp-up period typically lasting 24 months or more, during which they generate sales and income below the levels at which we expect them to normalize after the restaurant has built a customer base, and during which costs may be higher as we train new employees and adjust our food deliveries and preparation to sales volumes and peak-hour trends. If we are unable to build the customer base that we expect for new restaurant locations or overcome the higher fixed costs associated with new restaurant locations, new restaurants may not have results similar to those of our existing restaurants and may not be profitable.  Our new restaurant sales volumes since the fourth quarter of 2015 have also been negatively impacted by the food safety issues described elsewhere in this report and other adverse publicity, and as a result, theinitial negativeeffect of new restaurants on our average restaurant sales over the past two years has been of greater magnitude than we have seen in the past.  This trend may continue into 2019 and beyond.











We have also opened restaurants in nearly all major metropolitan areas across the U.S. New restaurantsthat we have recentlyopened, or may open,in existing markets may adversely impact sales in previously-opened restaurants in the same market, as guests who frequent our established restaurants begin to visit a newly-opened restaurant instead. This impact could worsen as we open additional restaurants, and could make it more difficult for us to increase comparable restaurant sales and profitability.Alternatively, existing restaurants could also make it more difficult to build the customer base for newly-opened restaurants in the same market, and could limit our growth potential if we determine that one or more of our nearby restaurants makes an otherwise viable new restaurant site unattractive to us.

In addition, in the event we are not able to contain increases in our average restaurant development costs, which could result from inflation, an increase in the proportion of higher cost locations, project mismanagement or other reasons, our new restaurant locations could also result in lower returns on our investment insuchnew restaurants.

Finally, our new restaurant development activity has broadened recently to incorporate trade areas or types of restaurant sites in which we have little or no prior experience, including smaller or more economically mixed communities, highway sites, outlet centers, and restaurants in airports, food courts, or on military sites.  These types of sites may become more important to our restaurant growth strategy as we find fewer opportunities to open in traditional sites, given our past growth.  Many of these site types may involve additional costs that we do not incur in our more traditional restaurant sitessuch as security costs, or marketing costs, which will adversely impact the profitability of restaurants in these types of sites. The risks related to building a customer base and managing development and operating costs in some or all of these types of trade areas or restaurant sites may also be more significant than in our traditional sites, which could result in unexpected negative impacts on our new restaurant operating results.

Our marketing and advertising strategies may not be successful, or may pose risks that could adversely impact our business.

In 2018, we hired a new Chief Marketing Officer and other senior marketing staff and introduced a new advertising campaign and media strategies, including increased use of television advertising.  Weintend tocontinue to invest in marketing and advertising strategies that we believe will attract guests or increase their connection with our brand. If these investments do not drive increased restaurant sales, the expense associated with these programs will adversely impact our financial results, and we may not generate the levels of comparable restaurant sales we expect. Additionally, if our marketing and advertising strategies are not successful, we may be forced to engage in additional promotional activities to attract and retain guests, including buy-one get-one offers and other offers for free or discounted food, and any suchadditionalpromotional activities could adversely impact our profitability.

We also plan to continue to emphasize strategies such as mobile and other digital ordering, delivery orders, and catering offerings in an effort to increase overall sales. These efforts may not succeed to the degree we expect, or may result in unexpected operational challenges that adversely impact our costs or our brand reputation. We may also seek to introduce new menu items that may not generate the sales we expect.

In addition, some of our marketing has incorporated elements intended to encourage guests to question sources or production methods commonly used to produce food. These elements of our marketing could alienate food suppliers and other food industry groups and may potentially lead to an increased risk of disputes or litigation if suppliers or other constituencies believe our marketing is unfair or misleading. Increased costs in connection with any such issues, or any deterioration in our relationships with existing suppliers, could adversely impact us or our reputation. Furthermore, if these messages do not resonate with our guests or potential guests, the value of our brand may be eroded.

We may continue to be negatively impacted by food safety incidents, and further instances of food-borne or localized illnesses associated with our restaurants would result in increased negative publicity and further adverse impacts on consumer perceptions of our brand.

During late October and early November 2015, illnesses caused by E. coli bacteria were connected to a number of our restaurants, initially in Washington and Oregon, and subsequently to small numbers of our restaurants in as many as 12 other states. During the week of December 7, 2015, an unrelated incident involving norovirus was reported at a Chipotle restaurant in Brighton, Massachusetts, which worsened the adverse financial and operating impacts we experienced from the E. coli incident.  As a result of these incidents and related publicity, our sales and profitability were severely impacted throughout 2016.  In July 2017, cases of norovirus associated with a Chipotle restaurant in Sterling, Virginia had a further adverse impact on our sales, particularly throughout the mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions, and in August 2018, illnesses believed to be caused by c. perfringens bacteria from the food in one of our restaurants in Powell, Ohio also negatively impacted our sales.  The significant amount of media coverage regarding these incidents, as well as the impact of social media (which was not in existence during many past food safety incidents involving other restaurant chains), increased the awareness of these incidents and negatively impacted perceptions of our restaurants and brand, notwithstanding the high volume of food-borne illness cases from other sources across the country every day.











Because of consumer perceptions in the wake of these food safety incidents, any future occurrence of food-borne illness associated with our restaurants—even incidents that may be considered minor at other restaurants—may have an even more significant negative impact on our sales and our ability to regain guests.  Although we have followed industry standard food safety protocols in the past and have endeavored to continually enhance our food safety procedures to ensure that our food is as safe as it can possibly be, we may still be at a higher risk for food-borne illness occurrences than some competitors due to our greater use of fresh, unprocessed produce and meats, our reliance on employees cooking with traditional methods rather than automation, and our avoid

ance



of

frozen ingredients. Additionally, no food safety protocols can completely eliminate the risk of food-borne illness in any restaurant, including as a result of possible failures by restaurant personnel or suppliers to follow food safety policies and procedures.  As a result, our enhanced food safety protocols may not be successful in preventing illness incidents in the future.  The risk of illnesses associated with our food might also increase in connection with an expansion of our delivery or catering businesses or other situations in which our food is

transported and/or

served in conditions we cannot control.  Furthermore, we have seen instances of unsubstantiated reports linking illnesses to Chipotle, and these reports have negatively impacted us.  Even if food-borne illnesses are attributed to us erroneously or arise from conditions outside of our control, the negative impact

, both financially and otherwise,

from any such illnesses is likely to be significant.  All of these factors could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain guests

, which would in turn have a material adverse effect on our growth and profitability

.

Our ability to continue to expand our digital business, delivery orders and catering is uncertain, and these new business lines are subject to risks.

Because all of these offerings are relatively new, it is difficult for us to anticipate the level of sales they may generate.  That may result in operational challenges, both in fulfilling orders made through these channels and in operating our restaurants as we balance fulfillment of these orders with service of our traditional in-restaurant guests as well.  Any such operational challenges may negatively impact the customer experience associated with our digital, delivery or catering orders, the guest experience for our traditional in-restaurant business, or both.  These factors may adversely impact our sales and our brand reputation.

Our expansion into international markets has been limited, and may present increased risks due to lower awareness of our brand, our unfamiliarity with those markets and other factors.

As of December 31, 2018, 37 of our restaurants were located outside of the U.S., with 23 in Canada,sevenin the United Kingdom,sixin France and one in Frankfurt, Germany. Our focus for the present time remains on expanding in North America, which limits our near-term growth potential.











As a result of our small number of restaurants outside the U.S. and the relatively short time we have been operating those restaurants, we have lower brand awareness and less operating experience in theseinternationalmarkets, and our average restaurant sales and/or transaction counts may be lower in theseinternationalmarkets than in the U.S. The markets in which we’ve opened restaurants outside the U.S., and any additional new markets we enter outside the U.S. in the future, have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our U.S. markets. As a result, new restaurants outside the U.S. may be less successful than restaurants in our existingU.S.markets. Specifically, due to lower consumer familiarity with the Chipotle brand, differences in consumer tastes or spending patterns, or for other reasons, sales at restaurants opened outside the U.S. may take longer to ramp up and reach expected sales and profit levels, and may never do so, thereby affecting our overall growth and profitability. To build brand awareness in international markets, we may need to make greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally plannedor than we need to for a new restaurant in a U.S. market, which could negatively impact the profitability of our operations in thoseinternationalmarkets.

We may also find it more difficult in international markets to hire, train and keep top performing employees who can successfully deliver excellent guest experiences, and labor costs may be higher in international markets due to increased regulation, higher employment taxes or social benefit costs or local market conditions. In addition, restaurants outside the U.S. have had higher construction, occupancy and food costs than those in the U.S., and we may have difficulty finding reliable suppliers or distributors or ones that can provide us, either initially or over time, with adequate supplies of ingredients meeting our quality standards. Additional costs or difficulties from any of the foregoing factors may adversely impact the operating results of our international markets. Markets outside the U.S. may also have regulatory differences with the U.S. with which we are not familiar, or that subject us to significant additional expense or to which we are not able to successfully adapt, which may have a particularly adverse impact on our sales or profitability in those markets and could adversely impact our overall results. For example, a new privacy regulation in the European Union called the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, became effective in May 2018 and requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data, and failure to meet GDPR requirements could result in penalties

up to

4% of our worldwide revenue

of the prior financial year

. Our overall results may also be negatively affected by currency risk on the transactions in other currencies and translation adjustments resulting from the conversion of our international financial results into the U.S. dollar.

Our failure to manage our growth and transformation effectively could harm our business and operating results.

As described elsewhere in this report, our plans call for a significant number of new restaurants, new employees, new suppliers, and new systems to support our business strategies. Our existing restaurant management systems, financial and management controls, information systems and personnel may be inadequate to support our expansion, and managing our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls, as well as to hire, train and retain general managers, crew and corporate staff. We also are continuing to attempt to improve our field management in an effort to improve restaurant operations, including food safety,and develop additional top performing general managers more quickly. We may not respond quickly enough to the changing demands that our growth and transformation impose on management, crew and existing infrastructure, and changes to our operating structure may result in increased costs or inefficiencies that we cannot currently anticipate. As we grow our number of restaurants, additional shifts in our cultural or operational focus may harm morale in our restaurants or prove distracting to our restaurant employees, which could adversely impact our business and operating results.

Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry

Competition could adversely affect us.











We believe that competition from all of the foregoing has made it more challenging to maintain or increase the frequency of our guest visits, and that those competitive pressures will continue or increase in the future.  Many of our competitors have existed longer than we have and may have a more established market presence with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we have. These and other competitors may attract guests with, among other things, a more diverse menu, lower operating costs and prices, better locations, better facilities, better management, more effective marketing and more efficient operations than we have.

Additionally, although we continue to believe that Chipotle can differentiate itself with our commitment to higher-quality and responsibly-sourced ingredients, competitors have increasingly made claims related to the quality of their ingredients, or distinctions between artificial and natural flavors, colors and preservatives.  The increasing use of these claims in the marketplace, even if the substantive basis for some of them may be questionable, may lessen our differentiation and make it more difficult for us to compete. Some of these competitors and other fast casual concepts have sought to duplicate various elements of our business operations, and more chains may copy us to varying degrees in the future.

Several of our competitors also compete by offering menu items that are specifically identified as low in carbohydrates, better for guests or otherwise targeted at particular consumer preferences. Many of our competitors in the fast-casual and quick-service segments of the restaurant industry also emphasize lower-cost, “value meal” menu options, a strategy we do not currently pursue. Our sales may be adversely affected by these and other competing products, or by price competition more generally.

Any of these competitive factors may adversely affect us and reduce our sales and profits.

Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or difficulties in finding, training and retaining top performing employees.

We rely on our restaurant employees to provide an outstanding guest experience, and as a result we believe good managers and crew and outstanding training are key parts of our success. Delivering excellent guest experiences depends substantially on the energy and skills of our employees and our ability to hire, train, motivate and keep qualified employees, especially general managers and crew members. Turnover among our restaurant crews and managers has been frequent, and we aim to reduce turnover in an effort to keep top performing employees and better realize our investment in training new employees. Failure to do so will adversely impact our operating results by increasing training costs and making it more difficult to deliver outstanding guest experiences, which may adversely impact our sales. Our failure to find and keep enough high-caliber employees could also delay planned restaurant openings, which would slow our growth.

In addition, labor is a primary component of our operating costs.  Increased labor costs due to factors such as competition for workers and labor market pressures, increased minimum wage requirements,increased healthcare costs, increased costs to apply with new and/or changing regulations,paid sick leave or vacation accrual mandates, or changes in our restaurant staffing structure have and may continue to adversely impact our operating costs. Many companies, both in the restaurant industry and in other industries with which we compete for employees, have implemented company-wide or targeted increases in starting wages or other enhancements to their compensation and benefit programs, and we may need to act similarly to continue to attract employees.During 2018 weincreasedbenefits to salaried and hourly managers, including additional paid leave, short term disability coverage, and a one-time cash bonus to all restaurant employees, which increasedour labor costs.   These enhancements, and any further increases in labor costs associated with additional market pressures on wages or other factors, will adversely impact our operating results.

Moreover, if our managers do not schedule our restaurant crews efficiently, our restaurants may be overstaffed at some times, which adversely impacts our labor costs as a percentage of revenue, decreasing our operating margins.  Efficient staffing may continue to be a challenge in 2019due to continued volatility and uncertainty in our sales trends.  Additional taxes or requirements to incur additional employee benefits expenses could also adversely impact our labor costs.

Because we do not franchise, risks associated with hiring and maintaining a large workforce, including increases in wage rates or the cost of employee benefits, compliance with laws and regulations related to the hiring, payment and termination of employees, and employee-related litigation, may be more pronounced for us than for restaurant companies at which some or all of these risks are borne by franchisees or other operating contractors.

Changes in food and supply costs could adversely affect our results of operations.

Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Like all restaurant companies, we are susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather conditions, global demand, food safety concerns, generalized infectious diseases, fluctuations of the U.S. dollar, product recalls and government regulations. The cost of many basic foods for humans and animals, including corn, wheat, rice and cooking oils, has increased markedly in some years, resulting in upward pricing pressures on almost all of our raw ingredients including chicken, beef, tortillas and rice.Efforts to negotiate with suppliers to limit any such price increases may not be successful, or may adversely impact our relationship with suppliers.











Additionally, a substantial volume of produce items are grown in Mexico and other countries, and a significant portion of our meats and restaurant supplies are sourced from outside the U.S. as well.  Any new or increased import duties, tariffs or taxes, or other changes in U.S. trade or tax policy,including any new or increased export duties, tariffs or taxes, or other changes in trade or tax policy as a result of retaliation by the countries from which we source our ingredients in response to such changes in U.S. trade or tax policy,or any localized labor disturbances or political unrest in the areas from which we source our ingredients, could result in higher food and supply costs that would adversely impact our financial results.

We could also be adversely impacted by price increases specific to meats raised in accordance with our sustainability and animal welfare criteria or other food items we buy as part of our Food With Integrity focus, the markets for which are generally smaller and more concentrated than the markets for food products that are conventionally raised and grown. Weather related issues, such as freezes or drought, may also lead to temporary spikes in the prices of some ingredients such as produce or meats. Increasing weather volatility or other long-term changes in global weather patterns, including any changes associated with global climate change, could have a significant impact on the price or availability of some of our ingredients. Any increase in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our menu, such as chicken, beef, cheese, avocados, beans, rice, tomatoes and pork, would have a particularly adverse effect on our operating results. Alternatively, in the event of cost increases with respect to one or more of our raw ingredients, we may choose to temporarily suspend serving menu items, such as guacamole or one or more of our salsas, rather than paying the increased cost for the ingredients. Any such changes to our available menu may negatively impact our restaurant traffic and comparable restaurant sales, and could also have an adverse impact on our brand.

Food safety scares could adversely affect consumer perceptions of, or the price or availability of, ingredients we use to prepare our food, which may adversely impact our sales.

Changes we have made in our operations, or that we make in the future, to further enhance the safety of the food we serve will adversely impact our financial performance and may negatively impact consumer perception of our brand.

As a result of the food safety incidents described elsewhere in this report, we have implemented a number of enhancements to our food safety protocols to ensure that our food is as safe as it can be.  Many of our enhanced procedures, which go beyond the industry-standard food safety practices that we were previously following, increase the cost of some ingredients or the amount of labor required to prepare and serve our food.  If we are not able to sufficiently increase sales to offset the increased costs resulting from these changes, our margins will fall well short of levels we have historically achieved and may not meet analyst and investor expectations in the future.  Even if we were to restore sales to levels we were achieving prior to the fourth quarter of 2015, the increased costs from these changes are likely to result in lower margins than we were able to achieve in the past.

Additionally, some of the enhanced food safety procedures we have introduced or may introduce in the future rely on increased use of centralized food preparation, additional in-restaurant preparation steps, or new ingredients, some or all of which may be inconsistent with previous guest perceptions of our restaurant operations.  To the extent guests perceive any of these developments as a move away from our Food With Integrity strategy and/or towards a more traditional fast food experience, our ability to win back guests may be adversely impacted and our sales may decline or recover more slowly than they otherwise would have.  Furthermore, even the most advanced food safety measures cannot eliminate all food safety risks from a restaurant environment.  For risks related to any future food safety incidents associated with our restaurants, see“—Risks Related to our Plans to Grow Our Sales and Profitability—We may continue to be negatively impacted by food safety incidents...”











Failure to receive frequent deliveries of higher-quality food ingredients and other supplies meeting our specifications could harm our operations.

Our ability to provide the experience our guests expect depends in part on our ability to acquire ingredients that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Unavailability of ingredients caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, food contamination, inclement weather, a supplier ceasing operations or deciding not to follow our required protocols, or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of our ingredients.  In particular, shortages of one or more of our menu items could force our restaurants to remove items from their menus, which may result in guests choosing to eat elsewhere.  If that happens, our affected restaurants could experience significant reductions in sales during the menu item shortage, and potentially thereafter if guests do not return to us after the shortage is resolved. Our focus on a limited menu would make the consequences of a shortage of a key ingredient more severe to us than at other restaurants.

For many of our food ingredients and other supplies we do not have long-term contracts with suppliers, and we have relied largely on a third-party distribution network with a limited number of distribution partners. If any of our distributors or suppliers performs inadequately, or our distribution or supply relationships are disrupted for any reason, the risk of ingredient shortages may increase and our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. We currently depend on a limited number of suppliers for some of our key ingredients, including beef, pork, chicken, tofu, beans, rice, sour cream, cheese, and tortillas. Due to the unique nature of the products we receive from our Food With Integrity suppliers and as described in more detail below under“—Risks Unique to Our Business Strategy—Our Food With Integrity philosophy subjects us to risks,” these suppliers could be more difficult to replace if we were no longer able to rely on them. If we have to seek new suppliers and service providers, we may be subject to pricing or other terms less favorable than those we currently enjoy. If we cannot replace or engage distributors or suppliers who meet our specifications in a short period of time, that could increase our expenses and cause shortages of food and other items at our restaurants.

Changes in consumer tastes and preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends could cause sales to decline.

Changes in consumer preferences, general economic conditions, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns, and the type, number and location of competing restaurants affect the restaurant industry. Our sales could be impacted by changes in consumer preferences, including in response to dietary concerns such as preferences regarding calories, sodium, carbohydrates, fat, consumption of animal productsor other nutritional considerations. These changes could result in consumers avoiding our menu items in favor of other foods, and our focus on a limited menu could make the consequences of a change in consumer preferences more severe than our competitors may face. Some consumers could also avoid freshly-prepared foods like those we serve, based on concerns regarding food safety.  This may be more likely to impact us as a result of the widely-publicized food safety incidents we experienced beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015.

Our success also depends to a significant extent on consumer confidence, which is influenced by general economic conditions and discretionary income levels. Our average restaurant sales may decline during economic downturns or periods of uncertainty, which can be caused by various factors such as high unemployment, increasing taxes, interest rates, or other changes in fiscal or monetary policy, high gasoline prices, declining home prices, tight credit markets or political or economic unrest in the U.S. and/or abroad.  Any material decline in consumer confidence or a decline in family “food away from home” spending could cause our sales, operating results, profits, business or financial condition to decline. If we fail to adapt to changes in consumer preferences and trends, we may lose guests and our sales may deteriorate.

If we were to experience widespread difficulty renewing existing leases on favorable terms, our revenue or occupancy costs could be adversely affected.

We lease substantially all of the properties on which we operate restaurants, and some of our leases are due for renewal or extension options in the next several years. Some leases are subject to renewal at fair market value, which could involve substantial increases, and a smaller number expire without any renewal option. While we currently expect to pursue the renewal of substantially all of our expiring restaurant leases, any difficulty renewing a significant number of such leases, or any substantial increase in rents associated with lease renewals, could adversely impact us. If we have to close any restaurants due to difficulties in renewing leases, we would lose revenue from the affected restaurants and may not be able to open suitable replacement restaurants. Conversely, substantial increases in rents associated with lease renewals would increase our occupancy costs, reducing our restaurant margins.











Risks Unique to Our Business Strategy

We may not persuade consumers of the benefits of paying our prices for higher-quality food.

Our success depends in large part on our ability to persuade consumers that food made with higher-quality ingredients is worth the prices they will pay at our restaurants relative to prices offered by some of our competitors, particularly those in the quick-service restaurant segment. We may not successfully educate consumers about the quality of our food, and consumers may not care even if they do understand our approach. That could require us to change our pricing, advertising or promotional strategies, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or the brand identity that we have tried to create. Additionally, it may be more difficult for us to persuade the public about the quality and value of our food following any food-borne illnesses associated with our restaurants, as further described above under“Risks Related to our Plans to Grow Our Sales and Profitability—We may continue to be negatively impacted by food safety incidents...”If consumers are not persuaded that we offer a good value for their money, our restaurant transaction counts could be adversely affected, which would negatively impact our business results.

Our restructuring activities will increase our expenses, may not be successful, and may adversely impact employee hiring and retention.

In addition, the relocation of our headquarters office functions has necessitated that we hire and train a significant number of new employees to replace corporate support employees who did not continue with us as a result of the relocation.  Hiring and training significant numbers of support team employees could distract existing employees, decrease employee morale, make it more difficult to retain and hire new talent, and harm our reputation. This turnover and any resulting distraction could negatively impact the overall performance of our corporate support teams, resulting in inefficiencies, higher short- or long-term costs, failures in risk management or compensating controls, or decreased productivity in numerous support or administrative functions. The costs associated with hiring new talent may also be more significant than we currently expect. As a result of these or other similar risks, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.

A substantial portion of our senior management team is new, which may pose challenges, and our success may depend on the continued service and availability of key personnel.

Brian Niccol joined us as Chief Executive Officer in March 2018, and we added a new Chief Marketing Officer, Chris Brandt, and our first Chief People Officer, Marissa Andrada, in April 2018; added our first Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel, Roger Theodoredis, in October 2018; and added a new Chief Development Officer, Tabassum Zalotrawala, in December 2018. These officers have, in turn, hired a substantial number of new direct reports, and as a result, our senior management team is relatively new and may face challenges working together as a unit, aligning on strategic priorities and objectives, or integrating their new teams with one another.  These challenges may be exacerbated by our ongoing restructuring efforts as further described above under “—Our restructuring activities will increase our expenses, may not be successful, and may adversely impact employee hiring and retention.”  Our Board of Directors has experienced recent changes as well, including the addition of Mr. Niccol, as well as our founder and former Chief Executive Officer, Steve Ells, assuming the position of Executive Chairman, and these changes may add to the challenges inherent in assimilating a new management team.  Failure to meet these challenges successfully may adversely impact our operations, business results or long-term growth prospects.











Additionally, Jack Hartung, our Chief Financial Officer, has served with us since early in our company’s history and much of our growth, as well as the development of our restaurant economic model, has occurred under his direction. Curt Garner, who joined us as Chief Information Officer in November 2015, has had a key role in developing and executing our digital and mobile ordering platforms and strategy, and we believe these and other technology innovations will become increasingly important in helping us return to sales and profitability growth.  Scott Boatwright, who joined us as Chief Restaurant Officer in May 2017, has led our recent efforts to improve the guest experience in our restaurants, which we also believe will be critical in attracting new and lapsed guests. And Laurie Schalow, who joined us as Chief Communications Officer in August 2017, has been responsible for media relations efforts and other initiatives to improve public perceptions of our brand.  Each of our executive officers is an at-will employee, and any turnover among our executive officers may disrupt our progress in implementing our business strategies or otherwise negatively impact our growth prospects or future operating results.  Additionally, if our company culture or operations were to deteriorate following any additional changes in leadership, we may be adversely impacted as well.

Our Food With Integrity philosophy subjects us to risks.

which

adversely impact

ed

sales.  We have experienced shortages of beef or chicken meeting our protocols on a periodic basis over the past several years as well, resulting in our serving commodity beef and chicken, which may have a negative impact on consumer perceptions of our brand.

Additionally, in response to increasing consumer awareness and demand, some competitors have also begun to advertise their use of meats raised without the use of antibiotics or growth hormones, dairy products from cows not treated with rBGH, and other ingredients similar to those we seek as part of our Food With Integrity philosophy. If competitors become known for using these types of higher-quality or more sustainable ingredients, it could further limit our supply of these ingredients, and may also make it more difficult for us to differentiate Chipotle and our restaurants, either which could adversely impact our operating results.











Pizzeria Locale and other new restaurant concepts may not contribute to our growth.

Notwithstanding our investment in Pizzeria Locale and exploration of other restaurant brand opportunities, our immediate focus will remain on thoughtfully growing the Chipotle brand. As a result, we do not expect Pizzeria Locale or other concepts to contribute to our growth in a meaningful way for at least the next several years.  We may also determine not to move forward with any further expansion of Pizzeria Locale, which may limit our overall growth potential over the long term. Conversely, any expansion of Pizzeria Locale or investments in other restaurant concepts might distract our management, which could have an adverse impact on our core Chipotle business.

Regulatory and Legal Risks

Governmental regulation in one or more of the following areas may adversely affect our existing and future operations and results, including by harming our ability to open new restaurants or increasing our operating costs.

Employment and Immigration Regulations











Additionally, while we do not currently have any unionized employees, union organizers have engaged in efforts to organize our employees and those of other restaurant companies. If a significant portion of our employees were to become union organized, our labor costs could increase and our efforts to maintain a culture appealing only to top performing employees could be impaired. Potential changes in labor laws, including the possible passage of legislation designed to make it easier for employees to unionize, could increase the likelihood of some or all of our employees being subjected to greater organized labor influence, and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results by imposing requirements that could potentially increase our costs, reduce our flexibility and impact our employee culture.

Privacy/Cybersecurity

We are required to collect and maintain personal information about our employees, and we collect information about guests as part of some of our marketing programs as well. The collection and use of such information is regulated at the federal and state levels, and by the European Union and its member states, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is evolving and increasingly demanding. Significant new privacy regulation in the European Union is further described above under “

—

Risks Related to our Plans to Improve Our Sales and Profitability and Restore our Economic Model

—

Our expansion into international markets has been limited, and may present increased risks due to lower consumer awareness of our brand, our unfamiliarity with those markets and other factors

.”   At the same time, we are relying increasingly on cloud computing and other technologies that result in third parties holding significant amounts of guest or employee information on our behalf. If our security and information systems or those of outsourced third party providers we use to store or process such information

or those of our delivery partners,

are compromised, or if we or such third parties otherwise fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face litigation and the imposition of penalties that could adversely affect our financial performance. Our reputation as a brand or as an employer could also be adversely affected from these types of security breaches or regulatory violations, which could impair our sales or ability to attract and keep qualified employees. Additional risks related to cybersecurity are described below under “

—

General Business Risks-We may be harmed by security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential guest and employee information.”

Americans with Disabilities Act and Similar State Laws

We are subject to the ADA and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. We have incurred substantial legal fees in connection with ADA-related complaints in the past, and we may in the future have to modify restaurants, for example by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural features, to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons under these laws. The expenses associated with these modifications, or any damages, legal fees and costs associated with litigating or resolving claims under the ADA or similar state laws, could be material.











Nutrition and Food Regulation

In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus at the federal, state and municipal levels on the food industry including nutrition and advertising practices. Restaurants operating in the quick-service and fast-casual segments have been a particular focus. Regulations requiring that chain restaurants include calorie information on their menu boards and make other nutritional information available went in place across the U.S. in May 2018, and states and localities have also proposed or adopted regulation of or taxes on certain beverage products, kids’ meals, and other food products or practices. These requirements may increase our expenses, change guest buying habits in a way that adversely impacts our sales, or subject us to liability if we make errors in complying with the requirements.

Local Licensure, Zoning and Other Regulation

Each of our restaurants is also subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, alcoholic beverage, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. We may experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new restaurants, which could delay planned restaurant openings. In addition, stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations.

Environmental Laws

Healthcare Regulation

We offer eligible full-time and part-time U.S. employees the opportunity to enroll in healthcare coverage subsidized by us. For various reasons, many of our eligible employees currently choose not to participate in our healthcare plans. Under the comprehensive U.S. health care reform law enacted in 2010, the Affordable Care Act, employers can be subjected to penalties for failure to provide a healthcare plan which is deemed to be both “affordable” and offers minimal essential coverage. We have incurred fines associated with this regulation in the past, and future costs associated with these healthcare requirements cannot be determined with certainty, but may have a material adverse effect on our financial statements.

Other Aspects of Regulatory Risk

From time to time we are the target of litigation in connection with various laws and regulations that cover our business. Much of this litigation occurs in California even though currently only about 17% of our restaurants are located there. As we continue to expand in California, or if we are not able to effectively manage the increased litigation risks and expenses we have experienced in California, our business may be adversely impacted to a greater extent than if we did not operate in, or minimized our operations in, California.

Because we do not franchise, the costs of compliance and other risks associated with government regulation of our business, as described above, may be more pronounced for us than for restaurant companies at which some or all of these risks are borne by franchisees or other operating contractors.











Regulatory actions and litigation related to food safety incidents that impacted us beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015 may adversely impact us.

We are facing an ongoing government investigation into food safety incidents and related compliance measures, as described in Note 13. “Commitments and Contingencies” in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  We also have received numerous claims from guests who were or claim to have been impacted by food safety incidents associated with our restaurants, and a number of those claimants have filed lawsuits against us.  We are cooperating in the government investigation and with many of the guests impacted by these incidents, but will continue to incur significant legal and other costs in doing so. We have also been sued in two separate shareholder class action lawsuits in connection with declines in our stock price in the wake of food safety incidents, and defending these lawsuits may subject us to significant additional legal expenses.  Additionally, the liabilities from guest claims and related litigation expenses may be greater than we anticipate due to the uncertainties inherent in litigation.  All of these costs, liabilities and expenses will negatively impact our operating results. Moreover, publicity regarding any legal proceedings related to food safety incidents may heighten consumer awareness of our past food safety incidents or otherwise negatively impact perceptions of our brand, which may hamper our ability to increase our sales.

We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by distracting management, increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies.

We’re subject to numerous claims alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, including wages, work hours, overtime, vacation and family leave, discrimination, wrongful termination, and similar matters, and we could become subject to class action or other lawsuits related to these or different matters in the future. Our guests also occasionally file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we’re responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants, or that we have problems with food quality, operations or our food related disclosure or advertising practices. See

“—

Governmental regulation in one or more of the following areas may adversely affect our existing and future operations and results, including by harming our ability to open new restaurants or increasing our operating costs

”

above, for additional discussion of these types of claims. From time to time, we also face claims alleging that technology we use in our business infringes patents held by third parties. In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to a growing number of claims based on the nutritional content of food products and other disclosure and advertising practices. We have been subject to a number of these actions and may be subject to additional actions of this type in the future. We are also undergoing government investigations and have been sued in two shareholder class action lawsuits, each as described elsewhere in this report, including in Note 13. “Commitments and Contingencies” in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and these matters may be particularly expensive to defend and/or resolve.

We believe the number of many of the foregoing types of claims has increased as our business has grown and we have become more visible to potential plaintiffs and their lawyers, particularly in California. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we’re ultimately held liable for such claims, they may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A significant judgment for any claims against us could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations, whether directed at us or at fast casual or quick-service restaurants generally, may also materially and adversely affect our reputation or prospects, which in turn could adversely affect our results.

General Business Risks

We may be harmed by security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential guest and employee information.

We accept electronic payment cards for payment in our restaurants. During 2018,approximately 76% of our sales were attributable to credit and debit card transactions, and credit and debit card usage could continue to increase. A number of retailers have experienced actual or potential security breaches in which credit and debit card information may have been stolen, including a number of highly publicized incidents with well-known retailers in recent years.

In April 2017, our information security team detected unauthorized activity on the network that supports payment processing for our restaurants, and the ensuing investigation detected malware designed to access payment card data from cards used at point-of-sale devices at most of our restaurants, primarily in the period from March 24, 2017 through April 18, 2017.  We removed the malware from our systems and continue to work to enhance our security measures, including a planned implementation of new payment processing technology in substantially all of our restaurants during 2019. However, we expect to be subject to payment card network assessments and may incur regulatory fines or penalties, for which our insurance coverage is limited, and as a result, we recorded a $30 million estimated liability, of which approximately $29 million remained in accrued liabilities as of December 31, 2018. We may ultimately be subject to liabilities greater than or less than the amount accrued. See Note 13. “Commitments and Contingencies” included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for further discussion of potential liabilities and pending litigation filed against us in connection with this incident.











We may be subject to additional lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to the 2017 incident or any future incidents in which payment card data may have been compromised.  Proceedings related to theft of credit or debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit) and federal and state regulators. Any such proceedings could distract our management from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenses. Consumer perception of our brand could also be negatively affected by these events, which could further adversely affect our results and prospects.

We also are required to collect and maintain personal information about our employees, and we collect information about guests as part of some of our marketing programs as well. The collection and use of such information is regulated at the federal and state levels, and by the European Union and its member states, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. For example, a new privacy regulation in the European Union called GDPR, became effective in May 2018 and requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Failure to meet GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. Similarly, the California Consumer Privacy Act is due to take effect January 1, 2020,and will require our instituting additional new processes and protections.

At the same time, we are relying increasingly on cloud computing and other technologies that result in third parties holding significant amounts of guest or employee information on our behalf. We have seen an increase over the past several years in the frequency and sophistication of attempts to compromise the security of several of these systems. If the security and information systems that we or our outsourced third party providers use to store or process such information are compromised or if we, or such third parties, otherwise fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face litigation and the imposition of penalties that could adversely affect our financial performance. Our reputation as a brand or as an employer could also be adversely affected by these types of security breaches or regulatory violations, which could impair our sales or ability to attract and keep qualified employees.

If we experience a significant failure in or interruption of certain key information technology systems, our business could be adversely impacted.

We use a variety of applications and systems to securely manage the flow of information within each of our restaurants as well as our centralized corporate infrastructure, and to administer a number of significant business functions. The services available within our systems and applications include restaurant operations, supply chain, inventory, scheduling, training, human capital management, financial tools, and data protection services. Our restaurant IT structure is based primarily on a point-of-sale system that operates locally at the restaurant and is integrated with other functions necessary to restaurant operations.  The point-of-sale system records sales transactions, receives out of store orders, and authorizes, batches, and transmits credit card transactions. It also allows employees to enter time clock information and to produce a variety of management reports. Select information that is captured from this system at each restaurant is collected in the central corporate infrastructure, which enables management to continually monitor operating results.  Our ability to efficiently and effectively manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these and other systems, and our operations depend substantially on the availability of our point-of-sale system and related networks and applications.

These systems may be vulnerable to attacks or outages from security breaches, viruses and other disruptive problems, as well as from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events. Any failure of these systems to operate effectively, whether from security breaches, maintenance problems, upgrades or transitions to new platforms, or other factors could result in interruptions to or delays in our restaurant or other operations, adversely impacting the restaurant experience for our guests or negatively impacting our ability to manage our business. We plan major hardware upgrades and systems implementations during 2019 that will encompass all of our restaurants, which may increase the likelihood of a systems outageor malfunctionnegatively impacting our business.  If our information technology systems fail and our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans are not adequate to address such failures, or if our business interruption insurance does not sufficiently compensate us for any losses that we may incur, our revenues and profits could be reduced and the reputation of our brand and our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, remediation of any problems with our systems could result in significant, unplanned expenses.











Negative publicity relating to our restaurants or our company could adversely impact our reputation, which may significantly harm us.

The adverse impact of negative publicity on consumers’ perception of us could have a further negative impact on our sales. If the impact of any such publicity is particularly long-lasting, the value of our brand may suffer and our ability to grow could be diminished. Additionally, negative publicity about our employment practices may affect our reputation among employees and potential employees, which could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain top performing employees. That could adversely impact the quality of the guest experience we can offer and our operations generally, and may increase our labor costs as well.

Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could have a material adverse impact on our business.

There has been a widespread and dramatic increase in the use of social media platforms that allow users to access a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons.  The availability of information on social media can be virtually immediate, as can its impact, and users of many social media platforms can post information without filters or checks on the accuracy of the content posted.  Adverse information concerning our restaurants or brand, whether accurate or inaccurate, may be posted on such platforms at any time and can quickly reach a wide audience.  The resulting harm to our reputation may be immediate, without affording us an opportunity to correct or otherwise respond to the information, and it is challenging to monitor and anticipate developments on social media in order to respond in an effective and timely manner.  As a result, social media may exacerbate the risks described above under “—Negative publicity relating to our restaurants or our company could adversely impact our reputation, which may significantly harm us.”

In addition, although search engine marketing, social media and other new technological platforms offer great opportunities to increase awareness of and engagement with our restaurants and brand, our failure to use social media effectively in our marketing efforts may further expose us to the risks associated with the accelerated impact of social media. Many of our competitors are expanding their use of social media and the social media landscape is rapidly evolving, potentially making more traditional social media platforms obsolete. As a result, we need to continuously innovate and develop our social media strategies in order to maintain broad appeal with guests and brand relevance, and we may not do so effectively.  A variety of additional risks associated with our use of social media include the possibility of improper disclosure of proprietary information, exposure of personally identifiable information of our employees or guests, fraud, or the publication of out-of-date information, any of which may result in material liabilities or reputational damage. Furthermore, any inappropriate use of social media platforms by our employees could also result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation, or lead to litigation that increases our costs.

Our insurance coverage and self-insurance reserves may not cover future claims.

We maintain various insurance policies for employee health, workers’ compensation, general liability, property damage and auto liability. We are self-insured for our employee health plans but have third party insurance coverage to limit exposure for both individual and aggregate claim costs. We are also responsible for losses up to a certain limit for workers’ compensation, general liability, property damage, employment practices liability and auto liability insurance.











For policies under which we are responsible for losses, we record a liability that represents our estimated cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet date. Our estimated liability is not discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical trends, actuarial assumptions and economic conditions, and is closely monitored and adjusted when warranted by changing circumstances. Our history of claims experience is relatively short and our significant growth during most of our operating history could affect the accuracy of estimates based on historical experience. If a greater amount of claims occurs compared to what we estimated, or if medical costs increase beyond what we expected, our accrued liabilities might not be sufficient and we may be required to record additional expense. Unanticipated changes may also produce materially different amounts of expense than reported under these programs, which could adversely impact our results of operations.  It is also possible that losses covered under one or more of our insurance policies may exceed the applicable policy limits, and any such uninsured losses could be significant enough to have a material adverse effect on our financial position.

We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business.

Our ability to successfully implement our business plan depends in part on our ability to further build brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos, our Food With Integrity strategy and the unique ambience of our restaurants. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, whether in print, on the internet or in other media, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are aware of restaurants in foreign jurisdictions using menu items, logos and other branding that we believe are based on our intellectual property, and our ability to halt these restaurants from using these elements may be limited in jurisdictions in which we are not operating. This could have an adverse impact on our ability to successfully expand into other jurisdictions in the future. We may also encounter claims from prior users of similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations. This could harm our image, brand or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs.

Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to various factors.

Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and could fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors because of factors including:

•changes in comparable restaurant sales and guest visits, including as a result of perceptions about our brand, competition, changes in consumer confidence or discretionary spending, and other factors listed in this“Risk Factors” section;

•additional negative publicity about the occurrence of food-borne illnesses, the ingredients we use, or other problems at our restaurantswhether as a result of actions within our control or those outside of our control such as those by our delivery partners;

•fluctuations in supply costs, particularly for our most significant food items;

•labor availability and wages of restaurant management and crew, as well as temporary fluctuations in labor costs as a result of operational changes or other factors;

•increases in marketing or promotional expenses as we introduce new marketing programs and strategies, or increasespending on existing marketing programs in an effort to drive sales;

•our ability to raise menu prices without adversely impacting guest traffic, particularly if food and labor costs were to increase;

•the timing of new restaurant openings and related revenues and expenses;

•operating costs at newly opened restaurants, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation;

•the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities, such as freezes that have impacted produce crops and droughts that have impacted livestock and the supply of certain meats;

•litigation, settlement costs and related legal expense;

•tax expenses, impairment charges and non-operating costs;

•variations in general economic conditions, including the impact of declining interest rates on our interest income;

•increases in infrastructure costs; and











•potential distraction or unusual expenses associated with our expansion into international markets or initiatives to expand new concepts.

﻿

Seasonal factors also cause our results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our restaurant sales are typically lower during the winter months and the holiday season and during periods of inclement weather (because fewer people are eating out) and higher during the spring, summer and fall months (for the opposite reason). Our restaurant sales will also vary as a result of the number of trading days—that is, the number of days in a quarter when a restaurant is open.

﻿

As a result of these factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Average restaurant sales or comparable restaurant sales in any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to fall. This risk may continue to be a greater concern during 2019, as analyst and investor expectations for continued improvements in our business results may be higher than the level of results we actually achieve.

Additionally, we believe the market price of our common stock, which has generally traded at a higher price-earnings ratio than stocks of most of our peer companies, has typically reflected high market expectations for our future operating results. The trading market for our common stock has been volatile at times as well, including during the recent past as a result of adverse publicity events. As a result, if we fail to meet market expectations for our operating results in the future, any resulting decline in the price of our common stock could be significant.

Our anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.

Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain some provisions that may make the acquisition of control of us without the approval of ourBoard ofDirectors more difficult, including provisions relating to the nomination, election and removal of directors, the structure of theBoard ofDirectors and limitations on actions by our shareholders. In addition, Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Any of these provisions may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may have otherwise presented a premium to our shareholders, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.

