ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

﻿

Risks Related to our Plans to Return to Sales and Profitability Growth and Restore our Economic Model

Our sales and profitability will continue to fall well short of our past results unless we can significantly increase comparable restaurant sales, and there are material risks to our ability to do so.

In 2016 we experiencedlower sales than the preceding year for the first time in our history as a public companyand our average restaurant volumes have declined from $2.532 million as ofSeptember 30, 2015 to $1.868 millionas of December 31, 2016.  In order to increase our sales, one of our primary goals is to increase comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales represent the change in period-over-period sales for restaurants beginning in their 13th full calendar month of operation.Changes in comparablerestaurant sales are also a critical factor affecting our profitability, because the profit margin on incremental comparable restaurant sales is generally higher due to the sales increases being applied against a partially fixed cost base. Conversely, declines in comparable restaurant sales, as we saw throughout the majority of 2016, have a significant adverse effect on profitability due to the loss of the positive impact on profit margins associated with comparable restaurant sales increases, while we continue to incur a certain level of fixed costs.

Our ability to increase comparable restaurant sales depends on many factors, including:

﻿

﻿

perceptions of the Chipotle brand and the safety and quality of our food, which may continue to be adversely impacted by food safety incidents described below under “—We may continue to be negatively impacted by food safety incidents associated with our restaurants…”;

competition, especially from an increasing number of competitors in the fast casual segment of the restaurant industry and from other restaurant concepts whose strategies overlap with elements of our Food With Integrity philosophy, as well as from grocery stores and other dining options;

executing our strategies effectively, including our marketing and branding strategies, our initiatives to expand the use of online and other digital ordering and increase sales from our catering options, our efforts to improve the overall quality of our customers’ experience and increase the speed at which our crews serve each customer, and our potential introduction of new menu items, each of which we may not be able to accomplish or which may not have the impact we expect;

changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending, including weaker consumer spending during periods of economic difficulty or uncertainty;

initial sales performance of new restaurants, and the impact of new Chipotle restaurants in the event customers who frequent one of our restaurants begin to visit one of our new restaurants instead, as further described below under “—Our new restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable…”;

our ability to increase menu prices without adversely impacting transaction counts to such a degree that the impact from lower transactions equals or exceeds the benefit of the menu price increase, and without “trade down” by customers or other reductions in average check in response to price increases;

weather, road construction and other factors limiting access to our restaurants; and

changes in government regulation that may impact customer perceptions of our food, including initiatives regarding menu labeling and marketing claims about the origin or makeup of some of the ingredients we serve.

﻿

These factors, most of which are described in more detail in additional Risk Factors below, are beyond our control to at least some degree. As a result, it is possible that we will experience future declines in comparable restaurant sales or that we otherwise will not achieve our targeted or expected comparable restaurant sales.  Any future declines in comparable restaurant sales or failure to meet market expectations for comparable restaurant sales increases would likely result in a significant adverse impact on the price of our common stock.  Additionally, if we fail to significantly increase comparable restaurant sales in 2017 and beyond, the price of our common stock is likely to be adversely impacted.











We may continue to be negatively impacted by food safety incidents associated with our restaurants beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, and further instances of food-borne or localized illnesses associated with our restaurants would result in increased negative publicity and further adverse impacts on customer perceptions of our brand, which would likely result in further declines in our sales.

During late October and early November 2015, illnesses caused by E. coli bacteria were connected to a number of our restaurants, initially in Washington and Oregon, and subsequently to small numbers of our restaurants in as many as 12 other states. During the week of December 7, 2015, an unrelated incident involving norovirus was reported at a Chipotle restaurant in Brighton, Massachusetts, which worsened the adverse financial and operating impacts we experienced from the earlier E. coli incident.  As a result of these incidents and related publicity, our sales and profitability were severely impacted throughout 2016.   The significant amount of media coverage regarding these incidents, as well as the impact of social media (which was not in existence during many past food safety incidents involving other restaurant chains), in increasing the awareness of these incidents may continue to negatively impact customer perceptions of our restaurants and brand, notwithstanding the high volume of food-borne illness cases from other sources across the country every day.  As a result, it may take longer for our sales to recover than has been the case during past food safety incidents associated with other restaurant chains, and we may not fully recover all of our lost sales.

Increasing our sales and profits depends in part on our ability to open new restaurants in sites and on terms attractive to us, which is subject to many unpredictable factors.

We had 2,250 restaurants in operation as of December 31, 2016. We plan to increase the number of our restaurants significantly, and plan to open between 195 and 210 newrestaurants in 2017. However, we have in the past experienced delays in opening some restaurants and that could happen again as a result of any one or more of the following factors:

﻿

﻿our potential inability to locate and secure new restaurant sites in locations that we believe to be attractive;obstacles to hiring and training top performing employees in the local market;difficulty managing construction and development costs of new restaurants, particularly in competitive markets or when real estate development activity is robust;delay or cancellation of new site development by developers and landlords, which may become increasingly common during periods of economic uncertainty, tight credit, and/or higher interest rates;difficulty ramping up the growth of our international business or new restaurant concepts, including for the reasons described below under “—Our expansion into international markets may present increased risks …” and “—Pizzeria Locale, Tasty Made and other new restaurant concepts may not contribute to our growth”;difficulty negotiating leases with acceptable terms;any shortages of construction labor or materials;failures or delays in securing required governmental approvals (including construction, parking and other permits);lack of availability of, or inability to obtain, adequate supplies of ingredients that meet our quality standards; andthe impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities.

﻿

One of our biggest challenges in opening new restaurants is staffing. We seek to hire only top-performing employees and to promote general managers from our crew, which may make it more difficult for us to staff all the restaurants we intend to open.









Constraints on our hiring new employees are described further below under “Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry—Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs…”

Another significant challenge is locating and securing an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. Competition for suitable restaurant sites in our target markets can be intense, and development and leasing costs are increasing, particularly for urban locations. These factors could negatively impact our ability to manage our occupancy costs, which may adversely impact our profitability.  In addition, any of these factors may be exacerbated by economic factors, which may result in developers and contractors seeing increased demand and therefore driving our construction and leasing costs up.

Any decision to delay or forego a significant number of new restaurant openings, or our inability to open the number of new restaurants we plan, due to any of the reasons set forth above could materially and adversely affect our growth strategy and our expected results. Moreover, as we open and operate more restaurants, our rate of expansion relative to the size of our existing restaurant base will decline, making it increasingly difficult to achieve levels of sales and profitability growth that we achieved prior to 2016.

Our progress in opening new restaurants from quarter to quarter may also occur at an uneven rate, which may result in quarterly sales and profit growth falling short of market expectations in some periods. Similarly, our growth strategy and the substantial investment associated with the development of each new restaurant (as well as the impact of our new restaurants on the sales of our existing restaurants) may cause our operating results to fluctuate and be unpredictable or adversely affect our profits.

Our new restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable, and may adversely impact the sales of our existing restaurants.

Historically, many of our new restaurants have opened with an initial ramp-up period typically lasting 24 months or more, during which they generate sales and income below the levels at which we expect them to normalize. This is in part due to the time it takes to build a customer base in a new area, which can result in lower initial sales volumes following a restaurant’s opening.  It may also be difficult for us to attract a customer base if we are not able to staff our restaurants with top performing employees and successfully train them to deliver excellent customer experiences. If we are unable to build the customer base that we expect for new restaurant locations or overcome the higher fixed costs associated with new restaurant locations, new restaurants may not have similar results as our existing restaurants and may not be profitable.  Our new restaurant sales volumes since the fourth quarter of 2015 have also been negatively impacted by the food safety issues described elsewhere in this report.   The negative impact has been of greater relative magnitude to the impact we have seen on comparable restaurant sales, and as a result, new restaurant sales may have an even larger adverse impact on our results than they have in the past.

Our new restaurant development activity has also broadened recently to incorporate trade areas or types of restaurant sites in which we have little or no prior experience, including smaller or more economically mixed communities, highway sites, outlet centers, and restaurants in airports, food courts, or on military sites.  The risks relating to building a customer base and managing development and operating costs may be more significant in some or all of these types of trade areas or restaurant sites, which could have an unexpected negative impact on our new restaurant operating results. In addition, in the event we are not able to contain increases in our average restaurant development costs, which could result from inflation, an increase in the proportion of higher cost locations, project mismanagement or other reasons, our new restaurant locations could also result in decreased profitability.

We have also opened restaurants in nearly all major metropolitan areas across the U.S. New restaurants opened in existing markets may adversely impact sales in previously-opened restaurants in the same market as customers who frequent our established restaurants begin to visit a newly-opened restaurant instead. This impact could worsen as we open additional restaurants, and could make it more difficult for us to increase comparable restaurant sales and profitability. Existing restaurants could also make it more difficult to build the customer base for newly-opened restaurants in the same market.

Our marketing and advertising strategies may not be successful, or may pose risks that could adversely impact our business.

In aneffort to reverse the downturn in our business results that began in late 2015, we significantly increased marketing and promotional expense in 2016.  For the year ended December 31, 2016, our marketing and promotional expense was 5.1%of revenue, significantly higher than the 2.1%of revenue it had averaged over the preceding three years.  In 2017 weexpect to return marketing and promotional expense to levels closer to our historical practice as a percent of revenue, and doing so may adversely impact the number of customers visiting our restaurants.  If so, we may be forced to engage in additional promotional activities, including further offers for free or discounted food, which may hamper our sales and profitability.

As part of our marketing plans for 2017, we have hired a new advertising agency and media buyer, and are also introducing a new advertising campaign and media strategies, including the possibility of television advertising, which we began testing for the first time in 2016.  If our advertising campaign and new media strategies do not resonate with customers in the manner we hope, they may









not result in increased sales, but would still increase our expenses.  Additionally, we will also continue to invest in marketing and advertising strategies that we believe will increase customers’ connection with our brand. If these marketing and advertising investments do not drive increased restaurant sales, the expense associated with these programs will adversely impact our financial results, and we may not generate the levels of comparable restaurant sales we expect.

We also plan to continue to emphasize strategies such as remote ordering and catering options in an effort to increase overall sales. These efforts may not increase our sales to the degree we expect, or at all. Catering and other out-of-restaurant sales options also introduce new operating procedures to our restaurants and we may not successfully execute these procedures, which could adversely impact the customer experience in our restaurants and thereby harm our sales and customer perceptions of our brand.

In addition, some of our marketing has incorporated elements intended to encourage customers to question sources or production methods commonly used to produce food. These elements of our marketing could alienate food suppliers and other food industry groups and may potentially lead to an increased risk of disputes or litigation if suppliers or other constituencies believe our marketing is unfair or misleading. Increased costs in connection with any such issues, or any deterioration in our relationships with existing suppliers, could adversely impact us or our reputation. Furthermore, if these messages do not resonate with our customers or potential customers, the value of our brand may be eroded.

Our expansion into international markets may present increased risks due to lower customer awareness of our brand, our unfamiliarity with those markets and other factors.

As of December 31, 2016, 29

of our restaurants were locate

d outside of the U.S., with 17 in Canada, 6 in the United Kingdom, 5

in F

rance and 1

in Frankfurt, Germany. As a result of our small number of restaurants outside the U.S. and the relatively short time we have

We may also find it more difficult in international markets to hire, train and keep top performing employees who can successfully deliver excellent customer experiences, and labor costs may be higher in international markets due to increased regulation, higher employment taxes or social benefit costs or local market conditions. In addition, restaurants outside the U.S. have had higher construction, occupancy and food costs than restaurants in existing markets, and we may have difficulty finding reliable suppliers or distributors or ones that can provide us, either initially or over time, with adequate supplies of ingredients meeting our quality standards. Additional costs or difficulties from any of the foregoing factors may adversely impact the operating results of our international markets. Markets outside the U.S. may also have regulatory differences with the U.S. with which we are not familiar, or that subject us to significant additional expense or to which we are not able to successfully adapt, which may have a particularly adverse impact on our sales or profitability in those markets and could adversely impact our overall results. Our overall results may also be negatively affected by currency risk on the transactions in other currencies and translation adjustments resulting from the conversion of our international financial results into the U.S. dollar.

Pizzeria Locale, Tasty Made and other new restaurant concepts may not contribute to our growth.

We believe that the fundamental principles on which our restaurants are based – finding better ingredients, preparing them using classic techniques in front of the customer, and serving them in an interactive format with great teams dedicated to providing an excellent dining experience – can be adapted to cuisines other than the food served at Chipotle.In order to see how our model works when we use different ingredients and a different style of food, we opened a number of ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen restaurants beginning in 2011, and one Tasty Made burger restaurant in Ohio in 2016. We also have a majority ownership interest in a company operating 7fastcasual Pizzeria Locale restaurants in Denver, Colorado, Kansas City, Missouri and Cincinnati, Ohio, and we plan to assist with the further expansion of Pizzeria Locale in the future. ShopHouse was not able to achieve a level of sales and profitability that made it attractive to us for future investment, and we announced in the fourth quarter of 2016 that we are exploring strategic alternatives for the concept. We recognized a $14.5 million non-cash impairment charge, representing substantially all of the value of long-lived assets of ShopHouse during the year ended December 31, 2016. Furthermore, Pizzeria Locale and Tasty Made are









new brands and have lower brand awareness, lower sales and less operating experience than most Chipotle restaurants, and may also not achieve restaurant economics that make them attractive for further investment in the future.  Notwithstanding our growth plans for Tasty Made, our investment in Pizzeria Locale, and exploration of other restaurant brand opportunities, our immediate focus will remain on thoughtfully growing the Chipotle brand. As a result, we do not expect Pizzeria Locale, Tasty Made or other concepts to contribute to our growth in a meaningful way for at least the next several years.  We may also determine not to move forward with any further expansion of Tasty Made or Pizzeria Locale. These decisions would each limit our overall growth over the long term as well. Additionally, the exploration of strategic alternatives for ShopHouse, the expansion of Tasty Made or Pizzeria Locale, or investments in other restaurant concepts each might distract our management, which could have an adverse impact on our core Chipotle business.

Our failure to manage our restaurant growth effectively could harm our business and operating results.

As described elsewhere in this report, our plans call for a significant number of new restaurants. Our existing restaurant management systems, financial and management controls, information systems and personnel may be inadequate to support our expansion, and managing our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls, as well as to hire, train and retain general managers, crew and corporate staff. We also are continuing to attempt to improve our field management in an effort to develop additional top-performing general managers more quickly. We may not respond quickly enough to the changing demands that our restaurant growth imposes on management, crew and existing infrastructure, and changes to our operating structure may result in increased costs or inefficiencies that we cannot currently anticipate. We have also historically placed a great deal of importance on restaurant cultures, which we believe needs to be redirected to focus more on effective training of our team to deliver excellent customer experiences. As we grow our number of restaurants, additional shifts in our cultural or operational focus may harm morale in our restaurants or prove distracting to our restaurant employees, which could adversely impact our business and operating results.

Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry

Competition could adversely affect us.

The fast-casual, quick-service and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, taste, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, brand reputation, and the ambience and condition of each restaurant. Our competition includes a variety of restaurants in each of these segments, including locally owned restaurants and national and regional chains. Many of our competitors offer dine-in, carry-out and delivery services. In recent years, competition has increased significantly from restaurant formats like ours that serve higher quality food, quickly at a reasonable price.  We believe that this competition has made it more challenging to maintain or increase the frequency of customer visits. Additionally, although wecontinue to believe that Chipotle can differentiate itself with our mission to ensure that better food is accessible to everyone,competitors have increasingly made claims related to the quality of their ingredients, or distinctions between artificial and natural flavors, colors and preservatives.  The increasing use of these claims in the marketplace, even if the substantive basis for some of them may be questionable, may lessen our differentiation.

Many of our competitors have existed longer than we have and may have a more established market presence with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we have. Among our main competitors are a number of multi-unit, multi-market Mexican food or burrito restaurant concepts, some of which are expanding nationally. Some of these competitors and other fast casual concepts have sought to duplicate various elements of our business operations, and more chains may copy us to varying degrees in the future. Additionally, our newer concepts, Tasty Made and Pizzeria Locale, operate in markets in which there are numerous competitors, including a number of large and well-known brands. A number of other companies or individuals in the restaurant industry have recently opened or invested in fast-casual pizza concepts or so-called “better burger” restaurants. In addition, our strategy includes opening additional restaurants in existing markets, and as we do so sales may decline in our previously-opened restaurants as customers who frequent our established restaurants begin to visit a newly-opened restaurant instead.

Several of our competitors compete by offering menu items that are specifically identified as low in carbohydrates, better for customers or otherwise targeted at particular consumer preferences. Many of our competitors in the fast-casual and quick-service segments of the restaurant industry also emphasize lower-cost, “value meal” menu options, a strategy we do not currently pursue. Our sales may be adversely affected by these and other competing products, or by price competition more generally.

Moreover, we may also compete with companies outside the fast casual and quick service and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry. For example, competitive pressures can come from deli sections and in-store cafés of several major grocery store chains, including those targeted at customers who want higher-quality food, as well as from convenience stores and other dining outlets. These competitors may have, among other things, a more diverse menu, lower operating costs and prices, better locations, better facilities, better management, more effective marketing and more efficient operations than we have.











Any of these competitive factors may adversely affect us and reduce our sales and profits.

Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or difficulties in finding and retaining top-performing employees.

Labor is a primary component of our operating costs, and we believe good managers and crew are a key part of our success. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our general managers and crew. Increased labor costs due to factors such as competition for workers and labor market pressures, increased minimum wage requirements, paid sick leave or vacation accrual mandates, or changes in our restaurant staffing structure have, and may continue to adversely impact our operating costs. Additional taxes or requirements to incur additional employee benefits costs, including the requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or the Affordable Care Act, (discussed further under “Regulatory and Legal Risks—The effect of recent changes to U.S. healthcare laws may increase our healthcare costs…”), could also adversely impact our labor costs. Moreover, if our managers do not schedule our restaurant crews efficiently, our restaurants may be overstaffed at some times, which adversely impacts our labor costs as a percentage of revenue, decreasing our operating margins.  Efficient staffing may continue to be a challenge in 2017 due to continued volatility and uncertainty in our sales trends.

In addition, our success in delivering excellent customer experiences depends substantially on the energy and skills of our employees and our ability to hire, motivate and keep qualified employees, especially general managers and crew members. Turnover among our restaurant crews and managers has been frequent, and we aim to reduce turnover in an effort to keep top performing employees and better realize our investment in training new employees. Failure to do so will adversely impact our operating results by increasing training costs and making it more difficult to deliver outstanding customer experiences. Our failure to find and keep enough high-caliber employees could also delay planned restaurant openings, which would slow our growth.

Because we do not franchise, risks associated with hiring and maintaining a large workforce, including increases in wage rates or the cost of employee benefits, compliance with laws and regulations related to the hiring, payment and termination of employees, and employee-related litigation, may be more pronounced for us than for restaurant companies at which some or all of these risks are borne by franchisees or other operating contractors.

Changes in food and supply costs could adversely affect our results of operations.

Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Like all restaurant companies, we are susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather conditions, global demand, food safety concerns, generalized infectious diseases, fluctuations of the U.S. dollar, product recalls and government regulations. The cost of many basic foods for humans and animals, including corn, wheat, rice and cooking oils, has increased markedly in some years, resulting in upward pricing pressures on almost all of our raw ingredients including chicken, beef, tortillas and rice. In 2016, a significant spike in avocado prices from September to Novemberadversely impacted our food costs for the third and fourth quarters, and there could be similar or greater pricing pressure on key ingredients









during 2017.  Costs haveincreased from the enhanced food safety procedures described elsewhere in this report. Additionally, a substantial volume of produce items are grown in Mexico and other countries, and some of our meats and restaurant supplies are sourced from outside the U.S. as well.  Any new or increased import duties, tariffs or taxes, or other changes in U.S. trade or tax policy, could result in higher food and supply costs that would adversely impact our financial results.

We could also be adversely impacted by price increases specific to meats raised in accordance with our sustainability and animal welfare criteria or other food items we buy as part of our Food With Integrity focus, the markets for which are generally smaller and more concentrated than the markets for food products that are conventionally raised and grown. Weather related issues, such as freezes or drought, may also lead to temporary spikes in the prices of some ingredients such as produce or meats. For instance, drought conditions in parts of the U.S. resulted in significant increases in beef prices during 2014 and 2015. Increasing weather volatility or other long-term changes in global weather patterns, including any changes associated with global climate change, could have a significant impact on the price or availability of some of our ingredients. Any increase in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our menu, such as chicken, beef, cheese, avocados, beans, rice, tomatoes and pork, would adversely affect our operating results. Alternatively, in the event of cost increases with respect to one or more of our raw ingredients, we may choose to temporarily suspend serving menu items, such as guacamole or one or more of our salsas, rather than paying the increased cost for the ingredients. Any such changes to our available menu may negatively impact our restaurant traffic and comparable restaurant sales, and could also have an adverse impact on our brand.

Food scares could adversely affect customer perceptions of, or the price or availability of, ingredients we use to prepare our food, which may adversely impact our sales.

Changes we have made in our operations, or that we make in the future, to further enhance the safety of the food we serve will adversely impact our financial performance and may negatively impact customer perception of our brand.

As a result of the food safety incidents described elsewhere in this report, we have implemented a number of enhancements to our food safety protocols to ensure that our food is as safe as it can be.  Many of our enhanced procedures, which go beyond the industry-standard food safety practices that we were previously following, increase the cost of some ingredients or the amount of labor required to prepare and serve our food.  If we aren’t able to sufficiently increase sales to offset the increased costs resulting from these changes, our margins will fall well short of levels we have historically achieved.  Even if we were to restore sales to levels we were achieving prior to the fourth quarter of 2015, the increased costs from these changes are likely to result in lower margins than we were able to achieve in the past.

Additionally, some of the enhanced food safety procedures we have introduced or may introduce in the future rely on increased use of centralized food preparation, additional in-restaurant preparation steps, or new ingredients, some or all of which may be inconsistent with previous customer perceptions of our restaurant operations.  To the extent customers perceive any of these developments as a move away from our Food With Integrity strategy and/or towards a more traditional fast food experience, our ability to win back customers may be adversely impacted and our sales may decline or recover more slowly than they otherwise would have.

Failure to receive frequent deliveries of higher-quality food ingredients and other supplies meeting our specifications could harm our operations.

Our ability to maintain our menu depends in part on our ability to acquire ingredients that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of ingredients caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, food contamination (which we may detect more frequently under the microbiological testing protocols we’ve recently









introduced), inclement weather, a supplier ceasing operations or deciding not to follow our required protocols, or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of our ingredients, which could harm our operations. In particular, shortages of one or more of our menu items could force our restaurants to remove items from their menus, which may result in customers choosing to eat elsewhere.  If that happens, our affected restaurants could experience significant reductions in sales during the menu item shortage, and potentially thereafter if customers do not return to us after the shortage is resolved. Our focus on a limited menu would make the consequences of a shortage of a key ingredient more severe to us than at other restaurants.

For many of our food ingredients and other supplies we do not have long-term contracts with suppliers, and we have relied largely on a third party distribution network with a limited number of distribution partners. If any of our distributors or suppliers performs inadequately, or our distribution or supply relationships are disrupted for any reason, the risk of ingredient shortages may increase and our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. We currently depend on a limited number of suppliers for some of our key ingredients, including beef, pork, chicken, tofu, beans, rice, sour cream, cheese, and tortillas. Due to the unique nature of the products we receive from our Food With Integrity suppliers and as described in more detail below under “

Risks Related to Our Unique Business Strategy

—

Our Food With Integrity philosophy subjects us to risks,

” these suppliers could be more difficult to replace if we were no longer able to rely on them. If we have to seek new suppliers and service providers, we may be subject to pricing or other terms less favorable than those we currently enjoy. If we cannot replace or engage distributors or suppliers who meet our specifications in a short period of time, that could increase our expenses and cause shortages of food and other items at our restaurants, which could cause a restaurant to remove items from its menu.  If that were to happen and customers change their dining habits as a result, affected restaurants could experience significant reductions in sales during the shortage or thereafter.  Our focus on a limited menu would make the consequences of a shortage of a key ingredient more severe.

In the first quarter of 2015, through our ongoing auditing of suppliers, we identified a pork supplier that was not meeting our standards and suspended purchases of pork from this supplier. Without this supply, we did not have enough pork meeting our specifications for all of our restaurants and a large number of our restaurants were not serving carnitas for a number of months during 2015.  We believe our comparable restaurant sales were adversely impacted as a result, as customers chose to eat elsewhere rather than substituting a different one of our menu items for carnitas.

Changes in customer tastes and preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends could cause sales to decline.

Changes in customer preferences, general economic conditions, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants affect the restaurant industry. Our sales could be impacted by changes in consumer preferences in response to dietary concerns, including preferences regarding items such as calories, sodium, carbohydrates or fat. These changes could result in consumers avoiding our menu items in favor of other foods, and our focus on a limited menu could make the consequences of a change in consumer preferences more severe than our competitors may face. Some customers could also avoid freshly-prepared foods like those we serve, based on concerns regarding food safety.  This may be more likely to impact us as a result of the widely-publicized food safety incidents we experienced in 2015.

Our success also depends to a significant extent on consumer confidence, which is influenced by general economic conditions and discretionary income levels. Our average restaurant sales may decline during economic downturns or periods of uncertainty, which can be caused by various factors such as high unemployment, increasing taxes, interest rates, or other changes in fiscal or monetary policy, high gasoline prices, declining home prices, tight credit markets or foreign political or economic unrest. Any material decline in consumer confidence or a decline in family “food away from home” spending could cause our sales, operating results, profits, business or financial condition to decline. If we fail to adapt to changes in customer preferences and trends, we may lose customers and our sales may deteriorate.

If we were to experience widespread difficulty renewing existing leases on favorable terms, our revenue or occupancy costs could be adversely affected.

We lease substantially all of the properties on which we operate restaurants, and some of our leases are due for renewal or extension options in the next several years. Some leases are subject to renewal at fair market value, which could involve substantial increases, and a smaller number expire without any renewal option. While we currently expect to pursue the renewal of substantially all of our expiring restaurant leases, any difficulty renewing a significant number of such leases, or any substantial increase in rents associated with lease renewals, could adversely impact us. If we have to close any restaurants due to difficulties in renewing leases, we would lose revenue from the affected restaurants and may not be able to open suitable replacement restaurants. Conversely, substantial increases in rents associated with lease renewals would increase our occupancy costs, reducing our restaurant margins.











Risks Related to our Unique Business Strategy

We may not persuade customers of the benefits of paying our prices for higher-quality food.

Our success depends in large part on our ability to persuade customers that food made with higher-quality ingredients is worth the prices they will pay at our restaurants relative to prices offered by some of our competitors, particularly those in the quick-service restaurant segment. We may not successfully educate customers about the quality of our food, and customers may not care even if they do understand our approach. That could require us to change our pricing, advertising or promotional strategies, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or the brand identity that we have tried to create. Additionally, it will likely be more difficult for us to persuade the public about the quality and value of our food following the food-borne illnesses we experienced in 2015 and the associated deterioration of customer perceptions about our brand, and we cannot predict when those perceptions will improve, if ever.  If customers are not persuaded that we offer a good value for their money, our restaurant transaction counts could be adversely affected, which would negatively impact our business results.

Our Food With Integrity philosophy subjects us to risks.

Additionally, in response to increasing customer awareness and demand, some competitors have also begun to advertise their use of meats raised without the use of antibiotics or growth hormones, dairy products from cows not treated with rBGH, and other ingredients similar to those we seek as part of our Food With Integrity philosophy. If competitors become known for using these types of higher-quality or more sustainable ingredients, it could further limit our supply of these ingredients, and may make it more difficult for us to differentiate Chipotle and our restaurants, which could adversely impact our operating results.











Our success may depend on the continued service and availability of key personnel, and recent changes in our management team may adversely impact us.

Regulatory and Legal Risks

Governmental regulation in one or more of the following areas may adversely affect our existing and future operations and results, including by harming our ability to open new restaurants or increasing our operating costs.

Employment and Immigration Regulations

We are subject to various federal and state laws governing our relationship with and other matters pertaining to our employees, including wage and hour laws, requirements to provide meal and rest periods or other benefits, family leave mandates, requirements regarding working conditions and accommodations to certain employees, citizenship or work authorization and related requirements, insurance and workers’ compensation rules and anti-discrimination laws. Complying with these rules subjects us to substantial expense and can be cumbersome, and can also expose us to liabilities from claims for non-compliance. For example, a number of lawsuits have been filed against us alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding employee wages and payment of overtime, meal and rest breaks, employee classification, employee record-keeping and related practices with respect to our employees. We incur legal costs to defend, and we could suffer losses from, these and similar cases, and the amount of such losses or costs could be significant. In addition, several states and localities in which we operate and the federal government have from time to time enacted minimum wage increases, changes to eligibility for overtime pay, paid sick leave and mandatory vacation accruals, and similar requirements and these changes could increase our labor costs. In addition, see “—

The effect of recent changes to U.S. healthcare laws may increase our healthcare costs…

” below for a discussion of risks related to recent changes in U.S. healthcare laws.

We also are audited from time to time for compliance with work authorization requirements, and audit activity and federal criminal and civil investigations in this area are described in more detail above under “

Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry

—

Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or difficulties in finding and retaining top-performing employees,

” as well as in Note 10. “Commitments and Contingencies” in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Unauthorized workers may subject us to fines or penalties, and if any of our workers are found to be unauthorized our business may be disrupted as we try to replace lost workers with additional qualified employees. On the other hand, in the event we wrongfully reject work authorization documents, or if our compliance procedures are found to have a disparate impact on a protected class such as a racial minority or based on the citizenship status of applicants, we could be found to be in violation of anti-discrimination laws. We could experience adverse publicity arising from enforcement activity related to work authorization compliance, anti-discrimination compliance, or both, that negatively impacts our brand and may make it more difficult to hire and keep qualified employees. Moreover, in addition to the criminal and civil investigations mentioned above under “

Risks Related to Operating in the Restaurant Industry

—

Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or difficulties in finding and retaining top-performing employees,

” the office of the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigated us for possible criminal and civil securities law violations relating to our employee work authorization compliance and related disclosures and statements as well. Any potential future investigations in this area may be expensive and distracting, and could subject us to fines, reputational damage, and other liabilities that could be significant.











Additionally, while we do not currently have any unionized employees, union organizers have engaged in efforts to organize our employees and those of other restaurant companies. If a significant portion of our employees were to become union organized, our labor costs could increase and our efforts to maintain a culture appealing only to top-performing employees could be impaired. Potential changes in labor laws, including the possible passage of legislation designed to make it easier for employees to unionize, could increase the likelihood of some or all of our employees being subjected to greater organized labor influence, and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results by imposing requirements that could potentially increase our costs, reduce our flexibility and impact our employee culture.

Americans with Disabilities Act and Similar State Laws

We are subject to the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. We have incurred substantial legal fees in connection with ADA-related complaints in the past, and we may in the future have to modify restaurants, for example by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural features, to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons under these laws. The expenses associated with these modifications, or any damages, legal fees and costs associated with litigating or resolving claims under the ADA or similar state laws, could be material.

Nutrition and Food Regulation

In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus at the federal, state and municipal levels on the food industry including nutrition and advertising practices. Restaurants operating in the quick-service and fast-casual segments have been a particular focus. For example, the State of California, New York City and a number of other jurisdictions around the U.S. have adopted regulations requiring that chain restaurants include calorie information on their menu boards or make other nutritional information available, and nation-wide nutrition disclosure requirements included in the U.S. health care reform law are scheduled to go into effect on May 5, 2017. These nutrition disclosure requirements may increase our expenses or slow customers as they move through the line, decreasing our throughput. These initiatives may also change customer buying habits in a way that adversely impacts our sales, and could subject us to liability if we make errors in calculating or disclosing the required information.

Privacy/Cybersecurity

We are required to collect and maintain personal information about our employees, and we collect information about customers as part of some of our marketing programs as well. The collection and use of such information is regulated at the federal and state levels, and by the European Union and its member states, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is evolving and increasingly demanding. At the same time, we are relying increasingly on cloud computing and other technologies that result in third parties holding significant amounts of customer or employee information on our behalf. If our security and information systems or those of outsourced third party providers we use to store or process such information are compromised, or if we or such third parties otherwise fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face litigation and the imposition of penalties that could adversely affect our financial performance. Our reputation as a brand or as an employer could also be adversely affected from these types of security breaches or regulatory violations, which could impair our sales or ability to attract and keep qualified employees. Additional risks related to cybersecurity are described below under “General Business Risks-We may be harmed by security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer and employee information.”

Local Licensure, Zoning and Other Regulation

Each of our restaurants is also subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, alcoholic beverage, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. We may experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new restaurants, which could delay planned restaurant openings. In addition, stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations.

Environmental Laws

We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, as well as local ordinances restricting the types of packaging we can use in our restaurants. We have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of our properties or operations. We have, however, conducted investigations of some of our properties and identified contamination caused by third-party operations. We believe any such contamination has been or should be addressed by the third party. If the relevant third party does not address or has not addressed the identified contamination properly or completely, then under certain environmental laws, we could be held liable as an owner or









operator to address any remaining contamination, sometimes without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the release or presence of hazardous or toxic substances. Any such liability could be material. Further, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our properties, and any such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations or results of operations. We also cannot predict what environmental laws will be enacted in the future, how existing or future environmental laws will be administered or interpreted, or the amount of future expenditures that we may need to make to comply with, or to satisfy claims relating to, environmental laws.

Other Aspects of Regulatory Risk

From time to time we are the target of litigation in connection with various laws and regulations that cover our business. Much of this litigation occurs in California even though currently only about 17% of our restaurants are located there. As we continue to expand in California, or if we are not able to effectively manage the increased litigation risks and expenses we have experienced in California, our business may be adversely impacted to a greater extent than if we did not operate in, or minimized our operations in, California.

Because we do not franchise, the costs of compliance and other risks associated with government regulation of our business, as described above, may be more pronounced for us than for restaurant companies at which some or all of these risks are borne by franchisees or other operating contractors.

Regulatory actions and litigation related to food safety incidents that impacted us beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015 may adversely impact us.

We are facing ongoing government investigations into the food safety incidents that occurred in 2015, including the criminal investigation described in Note 10. “Commitments and Contingencies” in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  We also have received numerous claims from customers who were or claim to have been impacted by these incidents, and a number of those claimants have filed lawsuits against us.  We are cooperating in the government investigations and with many of the customers impacted by these incidents, but will incur significant legal and other costs in doing so. We have also been sued in a shareholder class action lawsuit in connection with the decline in our stock price in the wake of the food safety incidents, and defending this lawsuit will subject us to significant legal expense.  Additionally, the liabilities from customer claims and related litigation expenses may be greater than we anticipate due to the uncertainties inherent in litigation.  All of these costs, liabilities and expenses will negatively impact our operating results. Moreover, publicity regarding any legal proceedings related to food safety incidents may increase or prolong consumer awareness of the incidents or otherwise negatively impact perceptions of our brand, which may hamper our ability to regain lost sales or attract new customers to our restaurants.

The effect of recent changes to U.S. healthcare laws may increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our financial results.

We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by distracting management, increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies.

We’re subject to numerous claims alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, including wages, work hours, overtime, vacation and family leave, discrimination, wrongful termination, and similar matters, and we could become subject to class action or other lawsuits related to these or different matters in the future. Our customers also occasionally file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we’re responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants, or that we have problems with food quality, operations or our food related disclosure or advertising practices.









See “—Governmental regulation in one or more of the following areas may adversely affect our existing and future operations and results, including by harming our ability to open new restaurants or increasing our operating costs” above, for additional discussion of these types of claims. From time to time, we also face claims alleging that technology we use in our business infringes patents held by third parties. In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to a growing number of claims based on the nutritional content of food products sold and disclosure and advertising practices. We have been subject to a number of these actions and may be subject to additional actions of this type in the future. We are also undergoing government investigations and have been sued in a shareholder class action lawsuit, each as described elsewhere in this report, including in Note 10. “Commitments and Contingencies” in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and these matters may be particularly expensive to defend and/or resolve.

We believe the number of many of the foregoing types of claims has increased as our business has grown and we have become more visible to potential plaintiffs and their lawyers, particularly in California. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we’re ultimately held liable for such claims, they may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A significant judgment for any claims against us could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations, whether directed at us or at fast casual or quick-service restaurants generally, may also materially and adversely affect our reputation or prospects, which in turn could adversely affect our results.

General Business Risks

We may be harmed by security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer and employee information.

We accept electronic payment cards for payment in our restaurants. During 2016 approximately 70% of our sales were attributable to credit and debit card transactions, and credit and debit card usage could continue to increase. A number of retailers have experienced actual or potential security breaches in which credit and debit card information may have been stolen, including a number of highly publicized incidents with well-known retailers in recent years. In August 2004, the merchant bank that processed our credit and debit card transactions informed us that we may have been the victim of a possible theft of card data. As a result, we recorded losses and related expenses totaling $4.3 million from 2004 through 2006.

We may in the future become subject to additional claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit or debit card information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to these types of incidents. Proceedings related to theft of credit or debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit) and federal and state regulators. Any such proceedings could distract our management from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenses. Consumer perception of our brand could also be negatively affected by these events, which could further adversely affect our results and prospects. The liabilities resulting from any of the foregoing would likely be far greater than the losses we recorded in connection with the data breach incident in 2004.

We also are required to collect and maintain personal information about our employees, and we collect information about customers as part of some of our marketing programs as well. The collection and use of such information is regulated at the federal and state levels, and by the European Union and its member states, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. At the same time, we are relying increasingly on cloud computing and other technologies that result in third parties holding significant amounts of customer or employee information on our behalf. We have seen an increase over the past several years in the frequency and sophistication of attempts to compromise the security of several of these systems. If the security and information systems that we or our outsourced third party providers use to store or process such information are compromised or if we, or such third parties, otherwise fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face litigation and the imposition of penalties that could adversely affect our financial performance. Our reputation as a brand or as an employer could also be adversely affected from these types of security breaches or regulatory violations, which could impair our sales or ability to attract and keep qualified employees.

Negative publicity relating to our restaurants or our company could adversely impact our reputation, which may significantly harm us.

We depend significantly on customers’ perception of and connection to our brand. In addition to the damage to our reputation from well-publicized food safety incidents during 2015 as described elsewhere in this report, we may experience negative publicity from time to time relating to food quality, customer complaints, restaurant facilities, advertising and other business practices, litigation alleging injuries or improper employee practices, government investigations or other regulatory issues, our suppliers’ potential failure to adhere to elements of our Food With Integrity protocols, other issues regarding the integrity of our suppliers’ food processing,









employee relationships, customer or employee data breaches, or other matters, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are held to be responsible. The negative impact of adverse publicity relating to one or more restaurants or any of the foregoing topics may extend far beyond the restaurant(s) involved and affect many more, or even all, of our restaurants. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years can further amplify any negative publicity that may be generated. A similar risk exists with respect to unrelated food service businesses, if consumers associate those businesses with our own operations. And even publicity that could reasonably be viewed as positive may have adverse consequences on our business.  For example, positive developments in regards to the food safety issues that have impacted us might have the effect of continuing or increasing customer awareness of the issue.

The adverse impact of publicity on customers’ perception of us could have a further negative impact on our sales. If the impact of any such publicity is particularly long-lasting, the value of our brand may suffer and our ability to grow could be diminished. Additionally, negative publicity about our employment practices may affect our reputation among employees and potential employees, which could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain top-performing employees. That could adversely impact the quality of the customer experience we can offer and our operations generally, and may increase our labor costs as well.

Our insurance coverage and self-insurance reserves may not cover future claims.

We maintain various insurance policies for employee health, worker’s compensation, general liability, property damage and auto liability. We are self-insured for our employee health plans but have third party insurance coverage to limit exposure for both individual and aggregate claim costs. We are also responsible for losses up to a certain limit for worker’s compensation, general liability, property damage, employment practices liability and auto liability insurance.

For policies under which we are responsible for losses, we record a liability that represents our estimated cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet date. Our estimated liability is not discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical trends, actuarial assumptions and economic conditions, and is closely monitored and adjusted when warranted by changing circumstances. Our history of claims experience is relatively short and our significant growth during most of our operating history could affect the accuracy of estimates based on historical experience. If a greater amount of claims occurs compared to what we estimated, or if medical costs increase beyond what we expected, our accrued liabilities might not be sufficient and we may be required to record additional expense. Unanticipated changes may also produce materially different amounts of expense than reported under these programs, which could adversely impact our results of operations.  It is also possible that losses covered under one or more of our insurance policies may exceed the applicable policy limits, which would subject us to unexpected additional liabilities in an amount that could be significant enough to have a material adverse effect on our financial position.

We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business.

Our ability to successfully implement our business plan depends in part on our ability to further build brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos, our Food With Integrity strategy and the unique ambience of our restaurants. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either in print or on the internet, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. We are aware of restaurants in foreign jurisdictions using menu items, logos and other branding that we believe are based on our intellectual property, and our ability to halt these restaurants from using these elements may be limited in jurisdictions in which we are not operating. This could have an adverse impact on our ability to successfully expand into other jurisdictions in the future. We may also encounter claims from prior users of similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations. This could harm our image, brand or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs.

Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to various factors.

Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and could fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors because of factors including:

﻿

﻿changes in comparable restaurant sales and customer visits, including as a result of perceptions about our brand, competition, changes in consumer confidence or discretionary spending, and other factors listed in these Risk Factors;additional negative publicity about the occurrence of food-borne illnesses, the ingredients we use, or other problems at our restaurants;









fluctuations in supply costs, particularly for our most significant food items, including increased ingredient costs as a result of changes we’ve made to enhance the safety of our food;labor availability and wages of restaurant management and crew, as well as temporary fluctuations in labor costs as a result of large-scale changes in workforce;increases in marketing or promotional expenses as we introduce new marketing programs and strategies, or increased spending on existing marketing programs in an effort to drive sales;our ability to raise menu prices without adversely impacting customer traffic, particularly if food and labor costs were to increase;the timing of new restaurant openings and related revenues and expenses;operating costs at newly opened restaurants, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation;the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities, such as freezes that have impacted produce crops and droughts that have impacted livestock and the supply of certain meats;variations in general economic conditions, including the impact of declining interest rates on our interest income;increases in infrastructure costs;litigation, settlement costs and related legal expense;tax expenses, impairment charges and non-operating costs; andpotential distraction or unusual expenses associated with our expansion into international markets or initiatives to expand new concepts.

﻿

Seasonal factors also cause our results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our restaurant sales are typically lower during the winter months and the holiday season and during periods of inclement weather (because fewer people are eating out) and higher during the spring, summer and fall months (for the opposite reason). Our restaurant sales will also vary as a result of the number of trading days—that is, the number of days in a quarter when a restaurant is open.

As a result of these factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Average restaurant sales or comparable restaurant sales in any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to fall. This risk may continue to be a greater concern during 2017, as the expectations of analysts and investors of a recovery in our business results may be higher than any level of recovery that we do actually achieve.

Additionally, we believe the market price of our common stock, which has generally traded at a higher price-earnings ratio than stocks of most or all of our peer companies, has typically reflected high market expectations for our future operating results. The trading market for our common stock has been volatile at times as well, including during 2016. As a result, if we fail to meet market expectations for our operating results in the future, any resulting decline in the price of our common stock could be significant.

Our anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.

Certain provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain some provisions that may make the acquisition of control of us without the approval of our board of directors more difficult, including provisions relating to the nomination, election and removal of directors, the structure of the board of directors and limitations on actions by our shareholders. In addition, Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Any of these provisions may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may have otherwise presented a premium to our shareholders.

