ITEM 1.  OUR BUSINESS



Alaska Air Group ("Air Group") operates Alaska Airlines ("Alaska") and Horizon Air ("Horizon"), which together with its partner regional airlines serve more than 100 cities through an expansive network in Alaska, the Lower 48, Hawaii, Canada and Mexico.  During2014, we carried29 millionpassengers while earning record full-year adjusted earnings of$571 million.



Our objective is to be one of the most respected U.S. airlines by our customers, employees, and shareholders.  We believe our success depends on our ability to provide safe air transportation, develop relationships with customers by providing exceptional customer service and low fares, and maintain a competitive cost structure to compete effectively.  It is important to us that we achieve our objective as a socially responsible company that values not just our performance, but also our people, our community, and our environment.



While aircraft and technology enable us to provide air transportation, we recognize this is fundamentally a people business.  Our employees maintain and strengthen our relationships with our customers, and our success depends on our employees working together to successfully execute on our strategy.  In2014, Alaska Airlines ranked "Highest in Customer Satisfaction among Traditional Network Carriers" by J.D. Power for the seventh year in a row.  Alaska Airlines also held the No. 1 spot in the Wall Street Journal's "Middle Seat" scorecard for U.S. airlines for two years in a row.  We have been the leader in the industry for on-time performance among major airlines for the past five years.  For achieving safety, customer service, operational and financial goals, we rewarded our employees with a record$116 millionin incentive pay.



In support of the communities that we serve, we strive to be an industry leader in environmental and community stewardship.  In2014, Air Group improved fuel efficiency by2.1%from the prior year.  Air Group donated $9.5 million to approximately 1,200 charitable organizations and our employees volunteered more than 21,000 hours of community service.  We pledged $1.5 million in grants to support job training for workers at Seattle-Tacoma airport, voluntarily increased wages to $12 per hour for certain vendors in Seattle, sponsored $2.5 million for Seattle's bike-share program, and pledged $2.5 million to Seattle's Museum of Flight to guide students toward a future in science, technology, engineering, and math.  For all of the efforts that we have made in our communities, Seattle Business Magazine awarded Alaska Air Group with the 2014 Community Impact Award.



We earned record financial results in 2014, marking oureleventhconsecutive annual profit on an adjusted basis.  We achieved an after-tax return on invested capital of18.6%, more than double our weighted average cost of capital.  Strong earnings improved our cash flow and strengthened our balance sheet resulting in a debt-to-capital ratio of31%, which compares favorably with other high-quality industrial transport companies. Due to our strong financial health, we are now one of only two U.S. airlines with investment grade credit ratings.  With the cash generated by the continued success we have had in the past decade, we were able to invest in our business for profitable growth and to enhance the customer experience.  All of our 737-800/900/900ER aircraft now feature innovative Recaro seats with power at every seat, and in December 2014, we debuted our Wi-Fi enabled in-flight entertainment system and our branded in-flight experience, Alaska Beyond™.  In addition, we have invested in our core market, Seattle, by adding six new non-stop destinations and increasing capacity by 4% in 2014.  For 2015, we are committed to increasing capacity in Seattle by 10%.



As we look to the future, we will build on the success of the past few years by executing our strategic plan — the Five Focus Areas:



Safety and Compliance

We have an unwavering commitment to run a safe and compliant operation, and we will not compromise this commitment in the pursuit of other initiatives.  Alaska and Horizon, in coordination with the FAA, are implementing a Safety Management System (SMS) to better identify and manage risk.  Both airlines are in the final phase of SMS implementation and are on track for completion and final FAA-certification in 2015.  During the current year, 100% of our Alaska and Horizon aircraft technicians completed the requirements for the FAA's "Diamond Certificate of Excellence" award.  This is the 13th consecutive year Alaska Airlines has received the award and the 13th time in the last 15 years for Horizon.  In 2014, we launched Ready, Safe, Go - a safety campaign designed to increase safety awareness across the Air Group System.



People Focus

Our success depends on our employees.  Higher employee engagement drives higher productivity, superior execution, and better customer service, which is why we listen to our employees for feedback in shaping our strategy.  In 2014, our employee










engagement was at 82% in our annual employee survey, up from 79% in the prior year.  To help develop and train our people on core leadership principles and promote engagement across our airlines, all of Air Group's leaders participated in a multi-day workshop called "Gear Up".  We plan to sponsor "Gear Up 2" in 2015 to further increase employee engagement.



We understand that aligning our employees' goals with the company's goals is important in achieving success. All employees participate in our Performance-Based Pay (PBP) and Operational Performance Rewards (OPR) programs, which encourage employees to work together to achieve metrics related to safety, profitability, on-time performance, low costs and customer satisfaction.  Over the last five years, our incentive programs have paid out on average, 8.7% of annual pay, or more than one month's pay, for most employees.  This is consistent with one of our guiding principles that we want to pay our people well with a goal of reaching the industry’s best productivity over time.  To that end, we signed four long-term agreements with various labor groups during the year, which provide the company, employees, and investors with long-term stability.



Hassle-Free Customer Experience

We want to be the easiest airline to fly.  In each step of the customer's journey, from booking a ticket to check-in, from flying in our aircraft to claiming baggage at the final destination, we want to provide a hassle-free experience for our customers.  Our industry-leading on-time performance for the past five years make us reliable to our customers, and we are the only airline that guarantees checked baggage delivery to the carousel within 20 minutes.  Customers can tag their own bags at airport kiosks, or in some cases at their homes, and we now have fingerprint scan entry to our airport lounges (Boardrooms).  We lead the travel industry in mobile innovation with iPhone, Android, and Microsoft apps that allow passengers to purchase tickets, check-in, upgrade seats, and reserve food for the flight - all with helpful notifications that inform customers when there are changes to their flights.  The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Pre-Check Program is available in 28 of our locations, which allows eligible customers to opt-in for reduced screening requirements.  We also introduced the Alaska Listens survey with five simple questions designed to get timely feedback from our customers - and we guarantee a response within 72 hours if there is an issue that needs to be resolved.  As passengers take more control of their travel experience, we are able to reduce the time it takes a customer to move from the airport curb to the aircraft.



Energetic and Compelling Brand

We want to be recognized as the preferred airline to fly. With our message, "Calling All Explorers," we want our customers to choose us whether they are exploring new destinations or traveling to familiar cities, because flying on Alaska is an adventure in itself.  Our Alaska Beyond™ flight experience, launched in 2014, features Beyond Entertainment™, Beyond Delicious™, Beyond Comfort™, and Beyond Service™, which together create a unique Alaska experience that is designed to go above and beyond customer expectations.  Customers can now stream in-flight entertainment to their personal devices, enjoy gourmet Tom Douglas signature entrées, rest comfortably in our Recaro seats with power, enhanced space, and six-way adjustable headrests, and fly with our flight crews that provide J.D. Power award-winning customer service.  We will refresh the visuals at our gates to communicate a consistent message to our customers and will roll out more airport and in-flight enhancements in 2015.



Due to the increased competition in 2014, we focused our marketing efforts to defend our Seattle market.  We launched our TV advertising campaign in partnership with Russell Wilson, the quarterback for the Seattle Seahawks and Alaska Airline's Chief Football Officer.  The Alaska Air blog was introduced in 2014 to better connect with our customers and provide Alaska news stories in an informal and authentic way.  We remain focused on strengthening our relationship with our customers in all of our markets through our energetic brand message and exceptional in-flight experience.  We are currently planning to refresh all of our airport stations at over 100 destinations with our new brand image in 2015.



Low Fares, Low Costs and Network Growth

We believe that in order to provide low fares for customers in a growing network of destinations, while returning value to our shareholders, we must maintain a competitive cost structure.  In2014, we lowered our unit costs, excluding fuel, by1.3%on a consolidated basis, representing the fifth consecutive year of annual reduction.  We achieved this through a continued focus on productivity, cost management, and network growth.  We increased employee productivity by2.0%in 2014 and will continue to focus on that metric as we leverage growth.  We also manage fuel costs by flying larger, more fuel-efficient aircraft, which have increased our fuel efficiency as measured by available seat miles flown per gallon by4.5%over the last five years.  Additionally, we have added split-scimitar winglets to 48 aircraft, which are expected to increase fuel efficiency by 1.5% per aircraft.  Looking forward, we have committed to purchasing42737-900ER and37737-MAX aircraft with deliveries from2015to2022, andthreeQ400 aircraft with deliveries from2015to2017.  In addition, we will increase regional capacity by having SkyWest operate seven E-175s with deliveries from 2015 to 2016.  The capacity increase with the new B737s, Q400s, and E175s position us for growth and ensure that we will continue to operate the most fuel-efficient aircraft available for the foreseeable future.












In2014, we added 16 new markets to our network and exited five as we continued to better match supply with demand.  We strengthened our Seattle network in 2014 by offering non-stop flights to markets like Albuquerque, Baltimore, Cancun, Detroit, New Orleans, and Tampa, and began 7 non-stop routes out of Salt Lake City.  New routes in 2015 will include Seattle to Milwaukee, Oklahoma City, and Washington D.C. (Dulles), from Las Vegas to Mammoth Lakes, from San Diego to Kona, and from Portland to St. Louis.





AIR GROUP



Alaska Air Group is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1985 and the holding company of Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air.  Although Alaska and Horizon both operate as airlines, their business plans, competition, and economic risks differ substantially.  Alaska Airlines is an Alaska corporation that was organized in 1932 and incorporated in 1937.  Horizon Air Industries is a Washington corporation that first began service and was incorporated in 1981.  Horizon was acquired by Air Group in 1986.  Alaska operates a fleet of passenger jets (mainline) and contracts with Horizon, SkyWest Airlines, Inc. (SkyWest) and Peninsula Airways, Inc. (PenAir) for regional capacity such that Alaska receives all passenger revenue from those flights.  Horizon operates a fleet of turboprop aircraft and sells all of its capacity to Alaska pursuant to a capacity purchase arrangement.  The majority of our revenues are generated by transporting passengers, but in recent years we have focused on growing our ancillary revenues.  The percentage of revenues by category is as follows:



20142013201220112010Mainline passenger revenue70%70%71%69%68%Regional passenger revenue15%16%16%17%17%Other revenue13%12%11%12%12%Freight and Mail revenue2%2%2%2%3%Total100%100%100%100%100%



We attempt to deploy aircraft into the network in ways that best optimize our revenues and profitability, and reduce our seasonality.



The percentage of our capacity by region is as follows:

20142013201220112010West Coast36%34%35%37%41%Transcon/midcon22%22%19%19%19%Hawaii18%19%20%16%11%Alaska15%16%17%18%19%Mexico6%7%7%9%8%Canada3%2%2%1%2%Total100%100%100%100%100%





MAINLINE



We offer extensive north/south service within the western U.S., Canada and Mexico, and passenger and dedicated cargo services to and within the state of Alaska.  We also provide long-haul east/west service to Hawaii and 24 cities in the mid-continental and eastern U.S., primarily from Seattle, where we have our largest concentration of departures; although we do offer long-haul departures from other cities as well.



In2014, we carried21 millionrevenue passengers in our mainline operations.  AtDecember 31, 2014, Alaska’s operating fleet consisted of137Boeing 737 jet aircraft, compared to131B737 aircraft as ofDecember 31, 2013.












The percentage of mainline passenger capacity by region and average stage length is presented below:

20142013201220112010West Coast31%28%29%31%33%Transcon/midcon25%25%22%21%24%Hawaii20%21%22%18%13%Alaska16%18%18%20%21%Mexico7%7%8%8%7%Canada1%1%1%2%2%Total100%100%100%100%100%Average Stage Length1,1821,1771,1611,1141,085





REGIONAL



Our regional operations consist of flights operated by Horizon, SkyWest and PenAir.  In2014, our regional operations carried approximately8.3 millionrevenue passengers, primarily in the states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho and California.  Horizon is the largest regional airline in the Pacific Northwest and carries about 90% of Air Group's regional revenue passengers.  In 2014, we increased regional jet flying provided by SkyWest and amended our capacity purchase agreement to start flying Embraer E-175s, which will support new markets such as Seattle-Milwaukee, Seattle-Oklahoma City, and Portland-St. Louis in 2015.



Based on2014passenger enplanements on regional aircraft, our leading airports are Seattle and Portland.  AtDecember 31, 2014, Horizon’s operating fleet consisted of51Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft.  Horizon flights are listed under Alaska's designator code in airline reservation systems, and in customer-facing locations.



The percentage of regional passenger capacity by region and average stage length is presented below:

20142013201220112010West Coast66%66%68%68%71%Pacific Northwest19%21%20%19%17%Canada8%9%9%9%9%Alaska4%2%2%2%2%Midcon2%1%—%—%—%Mexico1%1%1%2%1%Total100%100%100%100%100%Average Stage Length339329332329333





MILEAGE PLAN



The Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan™ program provides a comprehensive suite of frequent flier benefits.  Miles can be earned by flying on Alaska or on one of our 14 airline partners, or by using the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature card, or through other non-airline partners.  Our extensive list of airline partners includes carriers associated with two of the three major global alliances (Oneworld and SkyTeam), making it easier for our members to earn miles and reach preferred status in our Mileage Plan™, and have access to a large network of travel destinations.  Further, members can receive 25,000 bonus miles upon signing up for the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature card and earn triple miles on purchases made on Alaska Airlines flights or on alaskaair.com.  Alaska Airlines Visa Signature cardholders also receive an annual companion ticket that allows members to purchase an additional ticket for $99 plus tax, with no restrictions or black-out dates.  Earned miles can be redeemed for flights on Alaska Airlines or on any of our partner airlines, or for upgrades to First Class on Alaska Airlines for as low as 15,000 miles.  All of these benefits give our Mileage Plan™ members more value for their travel on Alaska Airlines, which led to our Mileage Plan™ receiving the highest rank by frequent fliers in the first-ever J.D. Power Airline Loyalty/Rewards Program Satisfaction Report in 2014.



Mileage Plan™ revenues represent approximately 10% of Air Group's total revenues.  Furthermore, our Mileage Plan™ helps drive more revenue through attaining new customers and building customer loyalty through the benefits that we provide.  The










Mileage Plan™ provides more value per dollar spent on the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature card, in comparison to other comparable frequent flier programs in the industry.  Summary of the benefits provided in comparison to some of our competitors are as follows:

Alaska Airlines Signature VisaPlatinum Select AAdvantageGold Delta SkyMilesUnited Mileage Plus ExplorerSouthwest Rapid Rewards PremierBonus miles upon approvalYesNoNoNoNoBonus miles awarded25,000 upon approval30,000 after spending $1,000 in 3 months30,000 after spending $1,000 in 3 months30,000 after spending $1,000 in 3 months50,000 after spending $2,000 in 3 monthsAnnual fee$75$95$95$95$99Miles for "on" spend3x2x2x2x2xCompanion fareYes - annual companion fare purchased for $99 plus tax.NoNoNoNoFirst bag freeNoYesYesYesNo bag fees







AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER AIRLINES



Our agreements fall into three different categories: Frequent Flier, Codeshare, and Interline agreements.  Frequent Flier Agreements offer mileage credits and redemptions for our Mileage Plan™ members.  Alaska offers one of the most comprehensive frequent flier programs for our Mileage Plan™ members through our frequent flier partnerships with 14 domestic and international carriers.



Codeshare agreements allow one or more marketing carriers to sell seats on a single operating carrier that services passengers under multiple flight numbers.  The sale of codeshare seats can vary depending on the sale arrangement. For example, in a free-sale arrangement, the marketing carrier sells the operating carrier's inventory without any restriction; whereas in a block space arrangement, a fixed amount of seats are sold to the marketing carrier by the operating carrier.  The interchangeability of the flight code between carriers provides a greater selection of flights for customers, along with increased flexibility for mileage accrual and redemption.



Interline agreements allow airlines to jointly offer a competitive, single-fare itinerary to customers traveling via multiple carriers to a final destination.  An interline itinerary offered by one airline may not necessarily be offered by the other, and the fares collected from passengers are prorated and distributed to interline partners according to preexisting agreements between the carriers.  Frequent Flier, Codeshare, and Interline agreements help increase our traffic and revenue by providing more route choices to customers.



We have marketing alliances with a number of airlines that provide frequent flier and codesharing opportunities.  Alliances are an important part of our strategy and enhance our revenues by:



•offering our customers more travel destinations and better mileage credit/redemption opportunities, including elite qualifying miles on all of our major U.S. and international airline partners;



•giving our Mileage Plan™ program a competitive advantage because of our partnership with carriers from two of the three major global alliances (Oneworld and SkyTeam);



•giving us access to more connecting traffic from other airlines; and



•providing members of our alliance partners’ frequent flier programs an opportunity to travel on Alaska and its regional affiliates while earning mileage credit in our partners’ programs.












Most of our codeshare relationships are free-sale codeshares, where the marketing carrier sells seats on the operating carrier’s flights from the operating carrier’s inventory, but takes no inventory risk.  Our marketing agreements have various termination dates, and at any time, one or more may be in the process of renegotiation.



The comprehensive summary of alliances with other airlines is as follows:

FrequentFlierAgreementCodeshare —Alaska Flight # onFlights Operated byOther AirlineCodeshare —Other Airline Flight #on Flights Operated byAlaska / Horizon / SkyWestMajor U.S. or International AirlinesAeromexicoYesNoYesAmerican Airlines/EnvoyYesYesYesAir FranceYesNoYesBritish AirwaysYesNoNoCathay Pacific AirwaysYesNoYesDelta Air Lines(a)YesYesYesEmiratesYesNoNoKLMYesNoYesKorean AirYesNoYesLAN S.A.YesNoYesFiji Airways(b)YesNoYesQantasYesNoYesRegional AirlinesSkyWest(b)NoYesNoEra AlaskaYesYesNoPenAir(b)YesYesNo

(a)Alaska has codeshare agreements with the Delta Connection carriers SkyWest, ExpressJet, Endeavor, and Compass as part of its agreement with Delta.

(b)These airlines do not have their own frequent flier program.  However, Alaska’s Mileage Plan™ members can earn and redeem miles on these airlines’ route systems.



The following is the financial impact of our marketing alliances:

20142013201220112010Air Group Marketed Revenues90.6%90.0%90.2%89.3%89.9%Codeshare Agreements:American Airlines2.9%2.6%2.7%3.4%3.1%Delta Air Lines2.3%3.8%3.4%3.6%3.7%Others0.9%0.9%0.8%0.8%0.8%Interline Agreements:Domestic Interline2.5%1.9%2.1%2.2%1.9%International Interline0.8%0.8%0.8%0.7%0.6%Total Operating Revenue100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%














OTHER REVENUE



Other revenue consists of freight and mail revenue, and ancillary revenue such as bag fees, change fees, on-board food and beverage, and Boardroom membership.  Total other revenue, excluding Mileage Plan™ revenue, represents about 3% of our total revenues.  In recent years, we have seen growth in our ancillary revenue as we expand services on-board such as Tom Douglas signature meals, in-flight entertainment, and Wi-Fi.  We have increased our bag fees to better match industry average prices, but we also offer a 20-minute bag guarantee so that we deliver value to our customers through fast, reliable service.  As we focus on ways to better serve our customers, we expect our ancillary revenues will continue to grow.





GENERAL



The airline industry is highly competitive, subject to various uncertainties, and has historically been characterized by low profit margins.  Uncertainties include general economic conditions, volatile fuel prices, industry instability, new competition, a largely unionized work force, the need to finance large capital expenditures and the related availability of capital, government regulation, and potential aircraft incidents.  Airlines have high fixed costs, primarily for wages, aircraft fuel, aircraft ownership, and facilities rents.  Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly based on the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing has a disproportionate effect on an airline’s operating and financial results.  In other words, a minor shortfall in expected revenue levels could cause a disproportionately negative impact on our operating and financial results.  Passenger demand and ticket prices are, to a large measure, influenced by the general state of the economy, current global economic and political events, and total available airline seat capacity.



In2014, the airline industry reported record revenues and profits as the global economy continued to recover and oil prices were stable for most of the year, with a significant decline in the fourth quarter.  As the industry strengthens, airlines are now making significant investments in airports, in new planes, and in new services to differentiate their customer service offering.  Thus, the level of competition is expected to increase.





FUEL



Our business and financial results are highly affected by the price and, potentially, the availability of aircraft fuel.  The cost of aircraft fuel is volatile and outside of our control, and it can have a significant and immediate impact on our operating results.  Over the past five years, aircraft fuel expense ranged from27%to35%of operating expenses. Fuel prices are impacted by changes in both the price of crude oil and refining margins, and can vary by region in the U.S.



The average annual price of crude oil in the last five years has increased from a low of$80per barrel in2010to a high of$98in 2013.  Although the price of crude oil was $53 per barrel at the end of 2014, the full-year average was$93per barrel.  For us, a $1 per barrel change in the price of oil equates to approximately$11 millionof fuel cost annually.  Said another way, a one-cent change in our fuel price per gallon will impact our expected annual fuel cost by approximately$5 millionper year.



Refining margins, which represent the price of refining crude oil into aircraft fuel, are a smaller portion of the overall price of jet fuel, but also contributed to the price volatility in recent years.  Refining margin prices have fluctuated between$14per barrel and$36per barrel in the last five years, and averaged $23 in 2014.



Generally, West Coast aircraft fuel prices are somewhat higher and more volatile than prices in the Gulf Coast or on the East Coast, putting our operation at a competitive disadvantage.  Our average raw fuel cost per gallondecreased6%in2014, decreased 4% in2013, and increased 2% in2012.












The percentages of our aircraft fuel expense by crude and refining margins, as well as the percentage of our aircraft fuel expense of operating expenses are as follows:

20142013201220112010Crude oil72%71%65%70%79%Refining margins18%19%25%24%14%Other(a)10%10%10%6%7%Total100%100%100%100%100%Aircraft fuel expense32%34%35%34%27%

(a)Other includes gains and losses on settled fuel hedges, unrealized mark-to-market fuel hedge gains or losses, taxes and other into-plane costs.



We use crude oil call options as hedges to decrease our exposure to the volatility of jet fuel prices.  Historically, we have had jet fuel refining margin swap contracts, but we discontinued the use of the refining margin swaps in the third quarter of 2014.  Call options effectively cap our pricing for the crude oil, limiting our exposure to increasing fuel prices for about half of our planned fuel consumption.  With call options, we are hedged against volatile crude oil price increases, and during a period of decline in crude oil prices, we only forfeit cash previously paid for hedge premiums. Currently, we hedge approximately 18 months in advance of crude oil consumption.



We believe that operating fuel-efficient aircraft is the best hedge against high fuel prices.  Alaska operates an all-Boeing 737 fleet and Horizon operates an all-Bombardier Q400 turboprop fleet.  Air Group's fuel-efficiency rate expressed in available seat miles flown per gallon (ASMs/g) improved from73.6ASMs/g in2010to76.9ASMs/g in2014.  These improvements have not only reduced our fuel consumption rate, but also the amount of greenhouse gases and other pollutants that our operations emit.





COMPETITION



Competition in the airline industry is intense and unpredictable.  Our competitors consist primarily of other airlines and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation.  Competition can be direct, in the form of another carrier flying the exact non-stop route, or indirect, where a carrier serves the same two cities non-stop from an alternative airport in that city or via an itinerary requiring a connection at another airport.  Our five principal competitors, in order of competitive overlap, are Delta, United, Southwest, American, and Hawaiian.  Delta significantly increased their capacity at Sea-Tac in 2014, and we expect them to continue to do so in 2015.  Based on schedules filed with the U.S. Department of Transportation, we expect the amount of competitive capacity overlap from these carriers to increase more than 12% in 2015, weighted based on our network.  We also compete with several other domestic and international carriers, but to a lesser extent than with our principal competitors.



We believe that the following principal competitive factors are important to our customers:



•Safety record



•Customer service and reputation



We compete with other airlines in areas of customer service such as on-time performance, passenger amenities - including first class seating, quality of buy-on-board products, aircraft type, and comfort.  In2014, Alaska Airlines ranked “Highest in Customer Satisfaction among Traditional Network Carriers” by J.D. Power and Associates for theseventhyear in a row.  All of our 2014 mainline aircraft deliveries included the Boeing Sky Interior, and we launched the new Alaska Beyond™ in-flight experience, which features our streaming in-flight entertainment, gourmet food designed by Tom Douglas, and comfortable seats with additional space and power as part of our exceptional, above and beyond flight experience.



•Fares and ancillary services



The pricing of fares is a significant competitive factor in the airline industry, and the increased availability of fare information on the Internet allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. Pricing is driven by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, market-specific capacity, market share per route/geographic area, cost structure, fare vs. ancillary revenue strategies, and demand.












For example, airlines often discount fares to drive traffic in new markets or to stimulate traffic when necessary to improve load factors. In addition, traditional network carriers have been able to reduce their operating costs through bankruptcies and mergers, while low-cost carriers have continued to grow their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile (the average cost to fly an aircraft seat one mile), which in turn may enable them to lower their fares.  These factors can reduce our pricing power and that of the airline industry as a whole.



Domestic airline capacity is dominated by four large carriers, representing approximately 85% of total seats.  Accordingly, if these carriers discount their fares or enter into our core markets, we must match those fares in order to maintain our load factors, often resulting in year-over-year decreases in our yields.  We will defend our core markets vigorously, and if necessary redeploy capacity to better match supply with demand.  We believe the restructuring we've completed over the past decade has decreased our costs to the point we can offer competitive fares while still earning appropriate pre-tax margins.



•Routes served, flight schedules, codesharing and interline relationships, and frequent flier programs



We also compete with other airlines based on markets served, the frequency of service to those markets, and frequent flier opportunities.  Some airlines have more extensive route structures than we do, and they offer significantly more international routes.  In order to expand opportunities for our customers, we enter into codesharing and interline relationships with other airlines that provide reciprocal frequent flier mileage credit and redemption privileges.  These relationships allow us to offer our customers access to more destinations than we can on our own, gain exposure in markets we don't serve and allow our customers more opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flier miles. Our Mileage Plan™ offers one of the most comprehensive benefits to our members with the ability to earn and redeem miles on 14 of our partner carriers.



In addition to domestic or foreign airlines that we compete with on most of our routes, we also compete with ground transportation in our short-haul markets in the regional operations.  Both carriers, to some extent, also compete with technology such as video conferencing and internet-based meeting tools that have changed the need for, or frequency of face-to-face business meetings.





TICKET DISTRIBUTION



Airline tickets are distributed through three primary channels:



•Alaskaair.com:It is less expensive for us to sell through this direct channel and, as a result, we continue to take steps to drive more business to our website.  In addition, we believe this channel is preferable from a branding and customer-relationship standpoint in that we can establish ongoing communication with the customer and tailor offers accordingly.



•Traditional and online travel agencies:Both traditional and online travel agencies typically use Global Distribution Systems (GDS), such as Sabre, to obtain their fare and inventory data from airlines.  Bookings made through these agencies result in a fee that is charged to the airline.  Many of our large corporate customers require us to use these agencies.  Some of our competitors do not use this distribution channel and, as a result, have lower ticket distribution costs.



•Reservation call centers:These call centers are located in Phoenix, AZ, Kent, WA, and Boise, ID.  We generally charge a $15 fee for booking reservations through these call centers.



Our sales by channel are as follows:

20142013201220112010Alaskaair.com57%55%54%51%48%Traditional agencies25%27%27%28%28%Online travel agencies12%13%13%13%15%Reservation call centers6%5%6%8%9%Total100%100%100%100%100%














SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS



Our results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year because our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations.  Our profitability is generally lowest during the first and fourth quarters due principally to lower traffic.  Profitability typically increases in the second quarter and then reaches its highest level during the third quarter as a result of vacation travel, including increased activity in the state of Alaska.  However, we have taken steps over the past few years to better manage the seasonality of our operations by adding flights to leisure destinations, like Hawaii, and expanding to cities in the mid-continental and eastern U.S.



In addition to passenger loads, factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to vary include:



•general economic conditions and resulting changes in passenger demand,



•      changes in fuel costs,



•pricing initiatives by us or our competitors,



•increases in competition at our primary airports, and



•increases or decreases in passenger and volume-driven variable costs.



Many of the markets we serve experience inclement weather conditions in the winter, causing increased costs associated with deicing aircraft, canceling flights, and reaccommodating displaced passengers.  Due to our geographic area of operations, we can be more susceptible to adverse weather conditions, particularly in the state of Alaska and the Pacific Northwest, than some of our competitors, who may be better able to spread weather-related risks over larger route systems.



No material part of our business or that of our subsidiaries is dependent upon a single customer, or upon a few high-volume customers.





EMPLOYEES



Our business is labor intensive.  As ofDecember 31, 2014, we employed13,952(10,846at Alaska and3,106at Horizon) active full-time and part-time employees.  Wages and benefits, including variable incentive pay, represented approximately41%of our total non-fuel operating expenses in both2014and2013.



Most major airlines, including ours, have employee groups that are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Airlines with unionized work forces have higher labor costs than carriers without unionized work forces, and they may not have the ability to adjust labor costs downward quickly enough to respond to new competition or slowing demand.  AtDecember 31, 2014, labor unions represented83%of Alaska’s and48%of Horizon’s employees.  Our relations with our U.S. labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA).  Under this act, collective bargaining agreements do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date.  If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed by the RLA and/or described in the agreement.  After receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board (NMB) to initiate a process including mediation, arbitration, and a potential “cooling off” period that must be followed before either party may engage in self-help.












Alaska’s union contracts atDecember 31, 2014were as follows:UnionEmployee GroupNumber of EmployeesContract StatusAir Line Pilots Association International (ALPA)Pilots1,562Amendable 03/31/2018Association of Flight Attendants (AFA)Flight attendants3,374Amendable 12/17/2019International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM)Ramp service and stock clerks613Amendable 7/19/2018IAMClerical, office and passenger service2,717Amendable 1/1/2019Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (AMFA)Mechanics, inspectors and cleaners630Amendable 10/17/2016Mexico Workers Association of Air TransportMexico airport personnel85Amendable 9/29/2014Transport Workers Union of America (TWU)Dispatchers41Amendable 3/24/2015



Horizon’s union contracts atDecember 31, 2014were as follows:

UnionEmployee GroupNumber of EmployeesContract StatusInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT)Pilots607Amendable 12/14/2018AFAFlight attendants550Amendable 07/18/18IBTMechanics and related classifications272Amendable 12/16/2020National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General WorkersStation personnel inVancouver and Victoria, BC, Canada50Amendable 2/14/2016





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS



The executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and executive officers of Alaska and Horizon who have significant decision-making responsibilities, their positions and their respective ages are as follows:

NamePositionAgeAir Groupor SubsidiaryOfficer SinceBradley TildenChairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Chief Executive Officer of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.541994Benito MinicucciExecutive Vice President/Operations and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines, Inc.482004Brandon PedersenExecutive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc.482003Andrew HarrisonSenior Vice President of Planning and Revenue Management of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc.442008Dave CampbellPresident and Chief Operating Officer of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.532014Herman WackerChief Ethics & Compliance Officer, General Counsel, and Vice President of Legal at Alaska Air Group, Inc.662014



Mr. Tildenjoined Alaska Airlines in 1991, became Controller of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines in 1994, Chief Financial Officer in February 2000, Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer in January 2002, Executive










Vice President/Finance and Planning in 2007, and President of Alaska Airlines in December 2008.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee and was elected to the Air Group Board in 2010.  He was elected Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc., Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air Industries in May 2012, and was elected Chairman of the Board in November 2013.



Mr. Minicuccijoined Alaska Airlines in 2004 as Staff Vice President of Maintenance and Engineering and was promoted to Vice President of Seattle Operations in June 2008.  He was elected Executive Vice President/Operations and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines in December 2008.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Pedersenjoined Alaska Airlines in 2003 as Staff Vice President/Finance and Controller of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines and was elected Vice President/Finance and Controller for both entities in 2006.  He was elected Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in June 2010, and elected as Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer in 2014.  He is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Harrisonjoined Alaska Airlines in 2003 as the Managing Director of Internal Audit and was elected Vice President of Planning and Revenue Management in 2008.  He was elected Senior Vice President of Planning and Revenue Management in 2014.  He is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Campbelljoined Horizon Air in 2014 as President and Chief Operating Officer.  Prior to joining Horizon, Mr. Campbell served more than 25 years of experience in maintenance and flight operations.  Most recently, he served as the vice president of maintenance and engineering at jetBlue Airways from January 2014 to August 2014, and prior to that, he served as vice president of safety and operational performance at American Airlines. He joined American in 1988 after serving for four years in the U.S. Air Force and has overseen maintenance, quality, technical operations and safety.  He is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Wackerhas been Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer at Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc. since May 2014 and was elected General Counsel in October 2014.  Mr. Wacker has been Vice President of Legal at Alaska Air Group, Inc. since February 2014 and served as its Managing Director of Labor & Employment Law from June 2007 to February 2014.  He served as an Associate General Counsel of Alaska Airlines Inc. and Alaska Air Group Inc. since June 2007.  He is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee.





REGULATION





GENERAL



The airline industry is highly regulated.  The Department of Transportation (DOT), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.



•DOT:In order to provide passenger and cargo air transportation in the U.S., a domestic airline is required to hold a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT.  Subject to certain individual airport capacity, noise and other restrictions, this certificate permits an air carrier to operate between any two points in the U.S. Certificates do not expire, but may be revoked for failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders or the terms of the certificates.  While airlines are permitted to establish their own fares without governmental regulation,the DOT has jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, marketing alliance agreements between major domestic carriers, international and some domestic route authorities, Essential Air Service market subsidies, carrier liability for personal or property damage, and certain airport rates and charges disputes.  International treaties may also contain restrictions or requirements for flying outside of the U.S. and impose different carrier liability limits than those applicable to domestic flights.  The DOT has been active in implementing a variety of “passenger protection” regulations, covering subjects such as advertising, passenger communications, denied boarding compensation and tarmac delay response.



•FAA:The FAA, through Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs), generally regulates all aspects of airline operations, including establishing personnel, maintenance and flight operation standards.  Domestic airlines are required to hold a valid air carrier operating certificate issued by the FAA.  Pursuant to these regulations we have established, and the FAA has approved, our operations specifications and a maintenance program for each type of aircraft we operate.  The maintenance program provides for the ongoing maintenance of such aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major overhauls.  From time to time the FAA issues airworthiness directives (ADs) that must be incorporated into our aircraft maintenance program and operations. All airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the FAA










from time to time for alleged violations of FARs or ADs.  At this time, we are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate.



•TSA:Airlines serving the U.S. must operate a TSA-approved Aircraft Operator Standard Security Program (AOSSP), and comply with TSA Security Directives (SDs) and regulations.  Airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the TSA from time to time for alleged violations of the AOSSP, SDs or security regulations.  We are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate.  Under TSA authority, we are required to collect a September 11 Security Fee of $5.60 per one-way trip from passengers and remit that sum to the government to fund aviation security measures.  Through September 2014, carriers also paid the TSA a security infrastructure fee to cover passenger and property screening costs.  These security infrastructure fees amounted to$10 millionin 2014 and$13 millioneach year in2013and2012.



The Department of Justice and DOT have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters.  The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services.  Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act.  To the extent we continue to fly to foreign countries and pursue alliances with international carriers, we may be subject to certain regulations of foreign agencies and international treaties.





ENVIRONMENTAL AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY MATTERS



We are subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries.  U.S. federal laws that have a particular effect on us include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, and the Oil Pollution Control Act.  We are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, OSHA, and other federal agencies have been authorized to create and enforce regulations that have an impact on our operations.  In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under these federal statutes.  Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations.  We maintain our safety, health and environmental programs in order to meet or exceed these requirements.



We expect there will be legislation in the future to reduce carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions.  Alaska and Horizon have transitioned to more fuel-efficient aircraft fleets.



The Airport Noise and Capacity Act recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system.  Authorities in several cities have established aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews.  We believe we have sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions.



Although we do not currently anticipate that these regulatory matters, individually or collectively, will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, new regulations or compliance issues that we do not currently anticipate could have the potential to harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in future periods.





INSURANCE



We carry Airline Hull, Spares and Comprehensive Legal Liability Insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice to cover damage to aircraft, spare parts and spare engines, as well as bodily injury and property damage to passengers and third parties.  We also have coverage for War and Allied Perils, including hijacking, terrorism, malicious acts, strikes, riots, civil commotion and other identified perils.



We believe that our emphasis on safety and our state-of-the-art flight deck safety technology help to control the cost of aviation insurance.





WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION



Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on our website atwww.alaskaair.com,free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information contained on our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K.














