ITEM 1.  OUR BUSINESS



Alaska Air Group operates Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air, which together with its partner regional airlines, serve 95 cities through an expansive network in Alaska, the Lower 48, Hawaii, Canada and Mexico.  During 2012, we carried26 millionpassengers while earning record full-year adjusted earnings of$339 million.



Our objective is to be one of the most respected domestic airlines by our customers, employees, and shareholders.  We believe our success depends on our ability to provide safe air transportation, develop relationships with customers by providing exceptional customer service, and maintain a competitive cost structure to increase our profitability, provide low fares and grow our network.  Over the past decade, we have worked to transform our company to achieve these objectives.  In 2012, Alaska Airlines ranked “Highest in Customer Satisfaction among Traditional Network Carriers” by J.D. Power and Associates for the fifth year in a row.  For the ninth consecutive year, we have reported an adjusted annual profit, allowing us to strengthen our balance sheet and achieve an after-tax return on invested capital of13%in 2012, surpassing our 10% goal for the third year in a row.  In addition, over the past decade, we have diversified our network to better respond to the seasonality in our business and provide more destinations for our customers.  As we look to the future, we will build on the success of the past few years by executing our strategic plan — the Five Focus Areas:



Safety and Compliance

We have an unwavering commitment to run a safe and compliant operation, and we will not compromise this commitment in the pursuit of other initiatives.  Alaska and Horizon, in coordination with the FAA, began implementing a Safety Management System to better identify and manage risk.  Both airlines achieved Level One certification in 2012 and plan to achieve Level Two certification in 2013.



People Focus

While aircraft and technology enable us to provide air transportation, we recognize this is fundamentally a people business and our success depends on our employees.  Strengthening our "small company feel" will allow our employees to execute as a united team on the frontlines and behind the scenes.  All Air Group employees have attended or will soon attend our Flight Path program, a one-day workshop to share the future vision for our company.  In addition, all employees participate in the Performance-Based Pay (PBP) and Operational Performance Rewards (OPR) programs, which encourage employees to work together to achieve metrics related to safety, profitability, low costs and customer satisfaction.  Over the last four years, our incentive programs have paid out over $325 million.



Hassle-Free Customer Experience

We want to be the easiest airline to fly, which we will do by improving each step of the customer's journey from booking a ticket to our in-flight experience.  During 2012, we launched a new mobile website, m.alaskaair.com, which provides customers quick and easy access to important travel information from any handheld mobile device or tablet, including the ability to purchase tickets, track flight details, check-in, get mobile boarding passes, and view optional upgrades.  After the successful launch of booking on our mobile website, we upgraded our Android app in December 2012 and iPhone app in January 2013 to allow our customers to book tickets using our apps.  We introduced self-bag tagging to four locations in 2012, which allows customers to print and attach their own luggage tags from a self-service kiosk in the airport lobby or, as part of a pilot program, at home during web check-in.  The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) launched their Pre-Check Program in 17 of our locations, which allows eligible customers to opt-in for reduced screening requirements.   As passengers take more control of their travel experience, we are able to reduce the time it takes a customer to move from the airport curb to the aircraft.



We have also made improvements to our airport gate areas.  At Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), Alaska moved to a newly renovated Terminal 6, which includes our Airport of the Future design, new common use systems, additional gates, and convenient connections with international flights.  At Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (Sea-Tac), the Port of Seattle Commission gave final design authorization to renovate the North Satellite to better serve passengers and consolidate our operations.  The project will include modernizing facilities, enhanced traveler amenities, adding three gates, and building a new roof-top Boardroom.  We also enhanced the customer experience by adding more power outlets to gate areas at six airport locations.  We expect construction on this project to commence in late 2013.



We continued to improve our in-flight experience by taking delivery of our first B737 aircraft with the Boeing Sky Interior.  The interior includes variable ambient cabin lighting, larger window recesses, and overhead bins which provide more headroom, all designed to offer a greater sense of space.  All future B737 aircraft deliveries will include the Boeing Sky Interior.









Energetic and Compelling Brand

We are fortunate to have high brand awareness and customer loyalty in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska.  For us to keep growing in new markets like California, Hawaii and cities in the mid-continental and eastern U.S., we believe we must better understand what is important to our new customers, and position our brand appropriately to help differentiate us from the competition.  We use our brand and technology to develop more direct relationships with our customers through more personalized marketing.  Our website, alaskaair.com, is tailored to each customer based on their location and viewing history.  In 2012, approximately54%of our ticket sales were made through alaskaair.com and our goal is 60% in 2013.  Similarly, our email marketing is highly targeted and personalized by allowing customers to choose which types of messages they want to receive, such as fare sale, new markets, offers from partner airlines and monthly Mileage Plan activity.  As a result, we increase ticket sales and reduce our ticket distribution costs by providing the right marketing messages to the right people at the right time.



We use social platforms, such as Facebook and Twitter, to give customers a new way to connect with our brand and provide exceptional customer service throughout their journey.  In 2012, our Facebook fans grew by 47% and our Twitter followers increased 38%.  And as we expand our network, we are dedicated to becoming part of the communities we serve.  In 2012, employees participated in over 235 community events, including the "Spirit of the Islands" paint-the-plane contest with the winning artwork adorning one of our B737-800 aircraft.  We also sponsor a number of local teams in the cities we serve, such as the Seattle Mariners and Portland Timbers.



Low Fares, Low Costs and Network Growth

In order to profitably provide low fares to our customers while returning value to our shareholders, we believe we must maintain a competitive cost structure.  In 2012, we lowered our unit costs, excluding fuel, by 0.8% on a consolidated basis, representing the 10th such annual reduction out of the past 11 years.  We achieved this through a continued focus on productivity.  In2012, we increased employee productivity by3.5%and will continue to focus on that metric through several tools as we leverage growth.  We also continue to reduce fuel costs by flying fuel-efficient aircraft, which have reduced our fuel burn as measured by available seat miles flown per gallon by13.4%over the last five years, and by decreasing our exposure to the volatility of jet fuel prices through our fuel hedge program.  Looking forward, we have committed to purchasing34737-900ER and37737 MAX aircraft, with deliveries in2013to2022, to position us for growth and ensure we will continue to operate the quietest and most fuel-efficient aircraft available for the foreseeable future.



In2012, we added 21 new markets to our network and exited six as we continued to better match supply with demand.  We diversified our network further to offer more utility to our customers by adding flights to Hawaii and expanding to cities in the mid-continental and eastern U.S., such as Kansas City, San Antonio, and Philadelphia.  We will also add new routes from Seattle to Salt Lake City and San Diego to Boston and Lihue in2013.





AIR GROUP



Alaska Air Group is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1985 and the holding company of Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air.  Although Alaska and Horizon both operate as airlines, their business plans, competition, and economic risks differ substantially.  Alaska Airlines is an Alaska corporation that was organized in 1932 and incorporated in 1937.  Horizon Air Industries is a Washington corporation that first began service and was incorporated in 1981.  Horizon was acquired by Air Group in 1986.  Alaska operates a fleet of passenger jets (mainline) and contracts with Horizon, SkyWest Airlines, Inc. (SkyWest) and Peninsula Airways, Inc. (PenAir) for regional capacity under which Alaska receives all passenger revenue from those flights.  Horizon operates a fleet of turboprop aircraft and sells all of its capacity to Alaska pursuant to a capacity purchase arrangement.



We attempt to deploy aircraft into the network in a way that best optimizes our revenues and profitability, reduces our seasonality, and takes advantage of demand in areas where other carriers have either exited or don't have the ability to serve.











The percentage of our capacity by market is as follows:

20122011201020092008West Coast35%37%41%45%48%Alaska17%18%19%20%20%Transcon/midcon19%19%19%17%18%Hawaii20%16%11%7%4%Mexico7%9%8%8%7%Canada2%1%2%3%3%Total100%100%100%100%100%





MAINLINE



We offer extensive north/south service within the western U.S., Canada and Mexico, and passenger and dedicated cargo services to and within the state of Alaska.  We also provide long-haul east/west service to Hawaii and 17 cities in the mid-continental and eastern U.S., primarily from Seattle, where we have our largest concentration of departures; although we do offer long-haul departures from other cities as well.



In2012, we carried19 millionrevenue passengers in our mainline operations, and we carry more passengers between Alaska and the U.S. mainland than any other airline.  Based on the number of passengers carried in2012, Alaska’s leading airports are Seattle, Los Angeles, Anchorage and Portland.  Based on2012revenues, the leading nonstop routes are Seattle-Anchorage, Seattle-Los Angeles, Seattle-Las Vegas, and Seattle-San Diego.  AtDecember 31, 2012, Alaska’s operating fleet consisted of124Boeing 737 jet aircraft, compared to117aircraft as ofDecember 31, 2011.



The percentage of mainline passenger traffic by market and average stage length is presented below:

20122011201020092008West Coast29%31%33%36%40%Within Alaska and between Alaska and the U.S. mainland16%17%19%21%21%Transcon/midcon22%22%24%23%22%Hawaii23%19%14%9%5%Mexico8%9%8%9%9%Canada2%2%2%2%3%Total100%100%100%100%100%Average Stage Length1,1611,1141,0851,034979





REGIONAL



Our regional operations consists of flights operated by Horizon, SkyWest and Penair.  In2012, our regional operations carried approximately7 millionrevenue passengers, primarily in the states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho and California.  Horizon is the largest regional airline in the Pacific Northwest and represented over 90% of Air Group's regional revenue passengers during2012,2011, and2010, respectively.



Based on2012passenger enplanements on regional aircraft, our leading airports are Seattle and Portland.  Based on revenues in2012, our leading nonstop routes are Seattle-Portland, Seattle-Spokane, and Seattle-Boise.  AtDecember 31, 2012, Horizon’s operating fleet consisted of48Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft.  Horizon flights are listed under Alaska's designator code in airline reservation systems, and in all customer-facing locations.











The percentage of regional passenger traffic by market and average stage length is presented below:

20122011201020092008West Coast69%67%70%70%72%Pacific Northwest20%21%19%20%18%Canada8%8%8%7%8%Within Alaska2%2%2%2%2%Mexico1%2%1%1%—%Total100%100%100%100%100%Average Stage Length294309333327322





INDUSTRY CONDITIONS, COMPETITION, AND ALLIANCES





GENERAL



The airline industry is highly competitive, subject to various uncertainties, and has historically been characterized by low profit margins.  Uncertainties include general economic conditions, volatile fuel prices, industry instability, new competition, a largely unionized work force, the need to finance large capital expenditures and the related availability of capital, government regulation, and potential aircraft incidents.  Airlines have high fixed costs, primarily for wages, aircraft fuel, aircraft ownership, and facilities rents.  Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly based on the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing has a disproportionate effect on an airline’s operating and financial results.  In other words, a minor shortfall in expected revenue levels could cause a disproportionately negative impact on our operating and financial results.  Passenger demand and ticket prices are, to a large measure, influenced by the general state of the economy, current global economic and political events, and total available airline seat capacity.



In2012, the industry continued to exercise capacity discipline due to economic uncertainty and volatile fuel prices.  This allowed the industry to report stronger adjusted pretax profit margins compared to2011.





FUEL



Our business and financial results are highly affected by the price and, potentially, the availability of aircraft fuel.  The cost of aircraft fuel is volatile and outside of our control, and it can have a significant and immediate impact on our operating results.  Over the past five years, aircraft fuel expense ranged from21%to36%of operating expenses. Fuel prices are impacted by changes in both the price of crude oil and refining margins, and can vary by region in the U.S.



The price of crude oil spiked in2008with a high of nearly$150per barrel in July2008and dropped significantly to an average of$62per barrel in2009.  We saw upward pressure on fuel prices again with an average crude oil price of just over$80per barrel in2010,$95per barrel in2011and$94per barrel in2012.  For us, a $1 per barrel increase in the price of oil equates to approximately$10 millionof additional fuel cost annually.  Said another way, a one-cent change in our fuel price per gallon will impact our expected annual fuel cost by approximately$4 millionper year.



Refining margins, which represent the price of refining crude oil into aircraft fuel, are a smaller portion of the overall price of jet fuel, but also contributed to the overall price volatility in recent years.  Refining margin prices reached a high of$45per barrel in May2008, before they dropped to an average price of $10 per barrel in2009and$14a barrel in2010.  Refining margin prices more than doubled to$33a barrel in2011and increased again to$36a barrel in 2012.



Generally, West Coast aircraft fuel prices are somewhat higher and more volatile than prices in the Gulf Coast or on the East Coast, putting our mainline operation at a slight competitive disadvantage.  Our average raw fuel cost per gallon increased2%in2012, 36% in2011, and 27% in2010.











The percentage of our aircraft fuel expense by crude and refining margins, as well as the percentage of our aircraft fuel expense of operating expenses:

20122011201020092008Crude oil65%70%79%82%68%Refining margins25%24%14%13%16%Other(a)10%6%7%5%16%Total100%100%100%100%100%Aircraft fuel expense35%34%27%21%36%

(a)Other includes gains and losses on settled fuel hedges, unrealized mark-to-market fuel hedge gains or losses, taxes and other into-plane costs.



We use crude oil call options and jet fuel refining margin swap contracts as hedges to decrease our exposure to the volatility of jet fuel prices.  Both call options and swaps effectively cap our pricing for the crude oil and refining margin components, limiting our exposure to increasing fuel prices for about half of our planned fuel consumption.  With the call option contracts, we still benefit from the decline in crude oil prices, as there is no future cash exposure above the premiums we pay to enter into the contracts.  The swap contracts do not require an upfront premium, but do expose us to future cash outlays in the event actual prices are below the swap price during the hedge period.



We believe that operating fuel-efficient aircraft is the best hedge against high fuel prices.  Alaska operates an all-Boeing 737 fleet and Horizon operates an all-Q400 turboprop fleet.  Alaska’s fuel burn expressed in available seat miles flown per gallon (ASMs/g) improved from72.6ASMs/g in 2008 to76.6ASMs/g in2012.  These reductions have not only reduced our fuel cost, but also the amount of greenhouse gases and other pollutants that our operations emit.





COMPETITION



Competition in the airline industry is intense.  We believe the principal competitive factors in the industry that are important to customers are:



•safety record and reputation,



•fares,



•non-ticket fees,



•flight schedules,



•customer service,



•routes served,



•frequent flier programs,



•on-time arrivals,



•baggage handling,



•on-board amenities,



•type of aircraft, and



•codesharing relationships.



We compete with one or more domestic or foreign airlines on most of our routes, including both major legacy carriers and low-cost carriers.  Due to its short-haul markets, our regional operations occasionally compete with ground transportation in many markets.  Both carriers, to some extent, also compete with technology such as video conferencing and internet-based meeting tools that have changed the need for, or frequency of face-to-face business meetings.











ALLIANCES WITH OTHER AIRLINES



We have marketing alliances with a number of airlines that provide reciprocal frequent flyer mileage credit and redemption privileges as well as codesharing on certain flights as shown in the table below.  Alliances are an important part of our strategy and enhance our revenues by:



•offering our customers more travel destinations and better mileage credit/redemption opportunities;



•giving our Mileage Plan program a competitive advantage because of our partnership with carriers from two of the three major global alliances (Oneworld and Skyteam);



•giving us access to more connecting traffic from other airlines; and



•providing members of our alliance partners’ frequent flyer programs an opportunity to travel on Alaska and its regional affiliates while earning mileage credit in our partners’ programs.



Most of our codeshare relationships are free-sell codeshares, where the marketing carrier sells seats on the operating carrier’s flights from the operating carrier’s inventory, but takes no inventory risk.  Our marketing agreements have various termination dates, and at any time, one or more may be in the process of renegotiation.  American Airlines and Delta Air Lines are our primary codeshare partners.  They participate in two of the three major global alliances.



Our marketing alliances with other airlines are as follows:

FrequentFlyerAgreementCodeshare —Alaska Flight # onFlights Operated byOther AirlineCodeshare —Other Airline Flight #on Flights Operated byAlaska / Horizon / SkyWestMajor U.S. or International AirlinesAeromexico(a)YesNoYesAmerican Airlines/American EagleYesYesYesAir FranceYesNoYesBritish AirwaysYesNoNoCathay Pacific AirwaysYesNoYesDelta Air Lines(b)YesYesYesEmiratesYesNoNoIcelandairYesNoYesKLMYesNoYesKorean AirYesNoYesLan S.A.YesNoYesAir Pacific(c)YesNoYesQantasYesNoYesRegional AirlinesSkyWest(c)YesYesNoEra AlaskaYesYesNoPenAir(c)YesYesNoKenmore Air(c)YesNoNo

(a)Alaska and Aeromexico launched a new codeshare partnership in December 2012, and plan to commence a reciprocal frequent flyer partnership by March 31, 2013.

(b)Alaska has codeshare agreements with the Delta Connection carriers SkyWest, ExpressJet, Pinnacle, and Compass as part of its agreement with Delta.

(c)These airlines do not have their own frequent flyer program.  However, Alaska’s Mileage Plan members can earn and redeem miles on these airlines’ route systems.













TICKET DISTRIBUTION



Airline tickets are distributed through three primary channels:



•Alaskaair.com:It is less expensive for us to sell through this direct channel and, as a result, we continue to take steps to drive more business to our website.  In addition, we believe this channel is preferable from a branding and customer-relationship standpoint in that we can establish ongoing communication with the customer and tailor offers accordingly.



•Traditional and online travel agencies:Both traditional and online travel agencies typically use Global Distribution Systems (GDS), such as Sabre, to obtain their fare and inventory data from airlines.  Bookings made through these agencies result in a fee that is charged to the airline.  Many of our large corporate customers require us to use these agencies.  Some of our competitors do not use this distribution channel and, as a result, have lower ticket distribution costs.



•Reservation call centers:These call centers are located in Phoenix, AZ, Kent, WA, and Boise, ID.  We generally charge a $15 fee for booking reservations through these call centers.



Our sales by channel are as follows:

20122011201020092008Alaskaair.com54%51%48%45%48%Traditional agencies27%28%28%32%28%Online travel agencies13%13%15%11%14%Reservation call centers6%8%9%12%10%Total100%100%100%100%100%





SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS



Our results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year because our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations.  Our profitability is generally lowest during the first and fourth quarters due principally to lower traffic.  Profitability typically increases in the second quarter and then reaches its highest level during the third quarter as a result of vacation travel, including increased activity in the state of Alaska.  However, we have taken steps over the past few years to better respond to the seasonality of our operations by adding flights to leisure destinations, like Hawaii, and expanding to cities in the mid-continental and eastern U.S.



In addition to passenger loads, factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to vary include:



•general economic conditions and resulting changes in passenger demand,



•      pricing initiatives by us or our competitors,



•changes in fuel costs,



•the timing and amount of maintenance expenditures (both planned and unplanned),



•increases or decreases in passenger and volume-driven variable costs, and



•labor actions.



Many of the markets we serve experience inclement weather conditions in the winter, causing increased costs associated with deicing aircraft, canceling flights, and reaccommodate displaced passengers.  Due to our geographic area of operations, we can be more susceptible to adverse weather conditions, particularly in the state of Alaska and the Pacific Northwest, than some of our competitors, who may be better able to spread weather-related risks over larger route systems.



No material part of our business or that of our subsidiaries is dependent upon a single customer, or upon a few high-volume customers.

























EMPLOYEES



Our business is labor intensive.  As of December 31, 2012, we employed12,932(9,954at Alaska and2,978at Horizon) active full-time and part-time employees.  Wages and benefits, including variable incentive pay, represented approximately42%and41%of our total non-fuel operating expenses in2012and2011, respectively.



Most major airlines, including ours, have employee groups that are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Airlines with unionized work forces have higher labor costs than carriers without unionized work forces, and they may not have the ability to adjust labor costs downward quickly enough to respond to new competition.  New entrants into the U.S. airline industry generally do not have unionized work forces, and often have lower costs and more liberal work rules.  AtDecember 31, 2012, labor unions represented83%of Alaska’s and49%of Horizon’s employees.  Our relations with our U.S. labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA).  Under this act, collective bargaining agreements do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date.  If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed by the RLA and/or described in the agreement.  After receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board (NMB) to initiate a process including mediation, arbitration, and a potential “cooling off” period that must be followed before either party may engage in self-help.



Alaska’s union contracts atDecember 31, 2012were as follows:

UnionEmployee GroupNumber ofActive EmployeesContract StatusAir Line Pilots Association International (ALPA)Pilots1,452Amendable 4/1/2013Association of Flight Attendants (AFA)Flight attendants2,987In NegotiationsInternational Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM)Ramp service and stock clerks573Amendable 7/19/2018IAMClerical, office and passenger service2,496Amendable 1/1/2014Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (AMFA)Mechanics, inspectors and cleaners624Amendable 10/17/2016Mexico Workers Association of Air TransportMexico airport personnel83Amendable 9/1/2013Transport Workers Union of America (TWU)Dispatchers39Amendable 3/24/2015



Horizon’s union contracts atDecember 31, 2012were as follows:

UnionEmployee GroupNumber ofActive EmployeesContract StatusInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT)Pilots550Amendable 12/11/2018AFAFlight attendants505In NegotiationsIBTMechanics and related classifications298Amendable 12/16/2014TWUDispatchers18Amendable 8/26/2014National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General WorkersStation personnel inVancouver and Victoria, BC, Canada46Amendable 2/14/2016IAMMaintenance Stores34In Negotiations















EXECUTIVE OFFICERS



The executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and executive officers of Alaska and Horizon who have significant decision-making responsibilities, their positions and their respective ages are as follows:

NamePositionAgeAir Groupor SubsidiaryOfficer SinceBradley TildenPresident and Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Chief Executive Officer of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.521994Glenn JohnsonExecutive Vice President of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and President of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.541991Keith LovelessExecutive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc.561996Benito MinicucciExecutive Vice President/Operations and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines, Inc.462004Brandon PedersenVice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc.462003



Mr. Tildenjoined Alaska Airlines in 1991, became Controller of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in 1994, Chief Financial Officer in February 2000, Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer in January 2002, Executive Vice President/Finance and Planning in 2007, and President of Alaska Airlines in December 2008.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee and was elected to the Air Group Board in 2010.  He was elected Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Air Group, Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air Industries in May 2012.



Mr. Johnsonjoined Alaska Airlines in 1982, became Vice President/Controller and Treasurer of Horizon Air Industries in 1991 and Vice President/Customer Services in 2002.  He returned to Alaska Airlines in 2003 where he has served in several roles, including Vice President/Finance and Controller and Vice President/Finance and Treasurer.  He served as Senior Vice President/Customer Service – Airports from January 2006 through April 2007 and in April 2007, he was elected Executive Vice President/Airports and Maintenance and Engineering.  He was elected Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in December 2008.  He was elected President of Horizon Air Industries in June 2010.  He was elected Executive Vice President Alaska Air Group in November 2012.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Lovelessbecame Corporate Secretary and Assistant General Counsel of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in 1996.  In 1999, he was named Vice President/Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines.  He was elected Executive Vice President Alaska Air Group in November 2012.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Minicuccijoined Alaska Airlines in 2004 as Staff Vice President of Maintenance and Engineering and was promoted to Vice President of Seattle Operations in June 2008.  He was elected Executive Vice President/Operations and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines in December 2008.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Pedersenjoined Alaska Airlines in 2003 as Staff Vice President/Finance and Controller of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines and was elected Vice President/Finance and Controller for both entities in 2006.  He was elected Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in June 2010.  He is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee.















REGULATION





GENERAL



The airline industry is highly regulated.  The Department of Transportation (DOT), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.





•

DOT:

In order to provide passenger and cargo air transportation in the U.S., a domestic airline is required to hold a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT.  Subject to certain individual airport capacity, noise and other restrictions, this certificate permits an air carrier to operate between any two points in the U.S. Certificates do not expire, but may be revoked for failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders or the terms of the certificates.  While airlines are permitted to establish their own fares without governmental regulation,

the DOT has jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, marketing alliance agreements between major domestic carriers, international and some domestic route authorities, Essential Air Service market subsidies, carrier liability for personal or property damage, and certain airport rates and charges disputes.  International treaties may also contain restrictions or requirements for flying outside of the U.S. and impose different carrier liability limits than those applicable to domestic flights.  The DOT has recently been active in implementing a variety of “passenger protection” regulations, covering subjects such as advertising, passenger communications, denied boarding compensation and tarmac delay response.

Beginning January 2012, we began adhering to the DOT's

full-fare advertising rule, which requires quoted fares to include all applicable government taxes and fees.

International fares and rates are subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries we serve.

Beginning in July 2012,

DOT rules stipulated that airlines must charge passengers the same checked baggage fee on all legs of a journey covered by a single ticket, even if the passenger's journey involves flights on multiple carriers with different checked baggage fees.



•FAA:The FAA, through Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs), generally regulates all aspects of airline operations, including establishing personnel, maintenance and flight operation standards.  Domestic airlines are required to hold a valid air carrier operating certificate issued by the FAA.  Pursuant to these regulations we have established, and the FAA has approved, our operations specifications and a maintenance program for each type of aircraft we operate.  The maintenance program provides for the ongoing maintenance of such aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major overhauls.  From time to time the FAA issues airworthiness directives (ADs) that must be incorporated into our aircraft maintenance program and operations. All airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the FAA from time to time for alleged violations of FARs or ADs.  At this time, we are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate.  New FAA rules regarding pilot flight time, duty period and rest came into effect in 2012.  The rule limits flight time to eight to nine hours and duty period to nine to 14 hours.  In addition, the rule requires 10-hour minimum rest periods prior to the duty period and at least 30 consecutive hours free from duty on a weekly basis.  The rule also places 28-day and annual limits on actual flight time.



•TSA:Airlines serving the U.S. must operate a TSA-approved Aircraft Operator Standard Security Program (AOSSP), and comply with TSA Security Directives (SDs) and regulations.  Airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the TSA from time to time for alleged violations of the AOSSP, SDs or security regulations.  We are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate.  Under TSA authority, we are also required to collect a September 11 Security Fee of $2.50 per enplanement from passengers and remit that sum to the government to fund aviation security measures.  Carriers also pay the TSA a security infrastructure fee to cover passenger and property screening costs.  These security infrastructure fees amounted to$13 millioneach year in2012,2011and2010.



The Department of Justice and DOT have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters.  The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services.  Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act.  To the extent we continue to fly to foreign countries and pursue alliances with international carriers, we may be subject to certain regulations of foreign agencies.





ENVIRONMENTAL AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY MATTERS



We are subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries.  U.S. federal laws that have a particular effect on us include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, and the Oil Pollution Control Act.  We are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and

Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, OSHA, and other federal agencies have been authorized to create and enforce regulations that have an impact on our operations.  In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under these federal statutes.  Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations.  We maintain our safety, health and environmental programs in order to meet or exceed these requirements.



We expect there will be legislation in the future to reduce carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions.  Alaska and Horizon have transitioned to more fuel-efficient aircraft fleets, thereby greatly reducing our total emissions.



The Airport Noise and Capacity Act recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system.  Authorities in several cities have established aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews.  We believe we have sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions.



Although we do not currently anticipate that these regulatory matters, individually or collectively, will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, new regulations or compliance issues that we do not currently anticipate could have the potential to harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in future periods.





INSURANCE



We carry Airline Hull, Spares and Comprehensive Legal Liability Insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice to cover damage to aircraft, spare parts and spare engines, as well as bodily injury and property damage to passengers and third parties.  Since the September 11, 2001 attacks, this insurance program excludes coverage for War and Allied Perils, including hijacking, terrorism, malicious acts, strikes, riots, civil commotion and other identified perils.  So, like other airlines, the company has purchased war risk coverage for such events through the U.S. government.



We believe that our emphasis on safety and our state-of-the-art flight deck safety technology help to control the cost of aviation insurance.





WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION



Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on our website atwww.alaskaair.com,free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information contained on our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K.





