ITEM 1.  OUR BUSINESS



Alaska Air Group, Inc. (Air Group, the Company, our, we or us) is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1985 and has two principal subsidiaries: Alaska Airlines, Inc. (Alaska) and Horizon Air Industries, Inc. (Horizon), which provide scheduled air transportation for passengers and cargo throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico.  During 2011, we provided air service to more than 24 million passengers and flew to more than 100 destinations.



The domestic airline industry is fiercely competitive.  To set ourselves apart we have focused on outstanding operational performance and customer service as evidenced by being ranked “Highest in Customer Satisfaction among Traditional Network Carriers” by J.D. Power and Associates for four consecutive years.  We believe we differentiate ourselves in a number of ways.



First, we offer an award-winning frequent flyer program, the Alaska Airlines Mileage PlanTM.  Members can earn and redeem miles on Alaska, Horizon, and a network of 15 airline partners around the globe, including Delta Air Lines and American Airlines in the U.S.  Our Mileage Plan has earned recognition as the "Frequent Flyer Program of the Year" five times in the Freddie Awards.  In addition, our Mileage Plan Visa card has been named “Best Loyalty Credit Card in the Americas” for two years running.



Second, we are recognized as having industry-leading on-time performance and other key operational metrics.  We are the only airline in the country with a Baggage Service Guarantee and recently launched new mobile applications for Android and iPhone smart phones that provide customers with new functionality aimed at making their travel experience more convenient and hassle-free.  Improving the travel experience, particularly in the airport environment, is an area we will continue to focus on in 2012.



Third, we aim to provide a high quality onboard experience to our passengers.  For example, we equipped our fleet of 737 aircraft with onboard Wi-Fi capability.  With 98 percent of the fleet equipped, Alaska is an industry leader in this area.  The Company also continues to focus on serving high-quality food and beverage products on board, using local products from the Pacific Northwest and Hawaii.  Our Northern Bites meals-for-purchase program had record sales in 2011, and on February 1, 2012 we introduced Starbucks coffee on on Alaska Flights.  Starbucks has been featured on Horizon flights for many years.  Additionally, Alaska recently took delivery of its first new 737 featuring the Boeing Dreamliner-inspired Sky Interior.  All future deliveries will include this new interior.



Fourth, we want to be known for our environmental leadership.  In the fall of 2011, our airlines were the first U.S. carriers to operate multiple scheduled biofuel flights.  We flew over 75 commercial flights between Seattle - Washington D.C. and Seattle - Portland using a 20 percent aviation biofuel blend, refined from used cooking oil.  These routes were selected to demonstrate the use of biofuel on a transcontinental route on a Boeing 737 and a short-haul operation using the Bombardier Q400.  Our inflight recycling programs divert an estimated 800 tons of mixed recyclables from local landfills each year.  In 2011, Horizon flight attendants collected and diverted 90 percent of all recyclable materials, with Alaska  flight crews setting a goal to divert 70 percent of all recyclable materials in 2012.  Further, we are spearheading a "Greener Skies" initiative to implement GPS technology which willallow airlines to use more efficient and environmentally-friendly flight paths, resulting inimproved flight procedures and reduced emissions.



And finally, we are striving to establish more direct relationships with our customers by engaging them whenever possible at alaskaair.com.  Our completely re-designed website introduced in 2011 is now among the industry's fastest and is better equipped to offer a full range of travel products and services to our customers.  Our focus is to drive more visitors to the site through enhanced online search efforts, email marketing, an expanded social media presence and other digital marketing efforts.  As a result, alaskaair.com's share of total bookings is now over 50 percent.



Although Alaska and Horizon both operate as airlines, their business plans, competition, and economic risks differ substantially.  Alaska Airlines is an Alaska corporation that was organized in 1932 and incorporated in 1937.  Horizon Air Industries is a Washington corporation that first began service and was incorporated in 1981.  Horizon was acquired by Air Group in 1986.  Alaska operates a fleet of passenger jets ("mainline operations") and contracts with Horizon, SkyWest Airlines, Inc. (SkyWest) and Peninsula Airways, Inc. (PenAir) for regional capacity under which Alaska receives all passenger revenue from those flights.  Horizon operates a fleet of turboprop aircraft and sells all of its capacity to Alaska pursuant to a capacity purchase arrangement (the Horizon CPA).  The Horizon CPA reflects what the Company believes are current market rates received by other regional carriers for similar flying.  Amounts paid by Alaska to Horizon are available to pay for various Horizon operating expenses such as crew expenses, maintenance, and aircraft ownership costs.









Effective January 1, 2011, Horizon's business model changed such that 100% of its capacity is sold to Alaska under the Horizon CPA.  As is typical for similar arrangements, certain costs such as landing fees, selling and distribution costs, and fuel costs directly related to regional flights operated by Horizon are now recorded by Alaska.  Because of this change, Horizon's revenues and expenses and Alaska's Regional revenues and expenses have changed significantly on a year-over-year basis.



FOUR CONSECUTIVE YEARS OF BEING RANKED “HIGHEST IN CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AMONG TRADITIONAL NETWORK CARRIERS” BY J.D. POWER AND ASSOCIATES





MAINLINE



We offer extensive north/south service within the western U.S., Canada and Mexico, and passenger and dedicated cargo services to and within the state of Alaska.  We also provide long-haul east/west service to Hawaii and thirteen cities in the mid-continental and eastern U.S., primarily from Seattle, where we have our largest concentration of departures; although we do offer long-haul departures from other cities as well.



In2011, we carried nearly 18 million revenue passengers in our mainline operations, and we carry more passengers between Alaska and the U.S. mainland than any other airline.  Based on the number of passengers carried in2011, Alaska’s leading airports are Seattle, Los Angeles, Anchorage and Portland.  Based on2011revenues, the leading nonstop routes are Seattle-Anchorage, Seattle-Los Angeles, and Seattle-Las Vegas.  AtDecember 31, 2011, Alaska’s operating fleet consisted of 117 Boeing 737 jet aircraft, compared to 114 aircraft as ofDecember 31, 2010.



The percentage of mainline passenger traffic by market is presented below:

201120102009West Coast31%33%36%Within Alaska and between Alaska and the U.S. mainland17%19%21%Transcon/midcon22%24%23%Hawaii19%14%9%Mexico9%8%9%Canada2%2%2%Total100%100%100%Average Stage Length1,1141,0851,034





REGIONAL



In2011, our regional operations carried nearly 7 million revenue passengers, primarily in the states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho and California.  Horizon is the largest regional airline in the Pacific Northwest and represented 87%, 98%, and 98%, of Air Group's regional revenue passengers during 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.



Based on2011passenger enplanements on regional aircraft, the leading airports are Seattle, Portland, Spokane, and Boise.  Based on revenues in2011, the leading nonstop routes are Portland-Seattle, Spokane-Seattle, and Seattle-Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.  AtDecember 31, 2011, Horizon’s operating fleet consisted of 48 Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft. Horizon flights are listed under Alaska's designator code in airline reservation systems, and in most other customer-facing locations.











The percentage of regional passenger traffic by market is presented below:

201120102009West Coast67%70%70%Pacific Northwest21%19%20%Canada8%8%7%Within Alaska2%2%2%Mexico2%1%1%Total100%100%100%Average Stage Length309333327





AIR GROUP CAPACITY



We attempt to deploy aircraft into the network in a way that best optimizes our revenues and profitability, reduces our seasonality, and takes advantage of demand in areas where other carriers have either exited or don't have the ability to serve.



The percentage of our capacity by market is as follows:

201120102009West Coast37%41%45%Alaska18%19%20%Transcon/midcon19%19%17%Hawaii16%11%7%Mexico9%8%8%Canada1%2%3%Total100%100%100%





INDUSTRY CONDITIONS, COMPETITION, AND ALLIANCES





GENERAL



The airline industry is highly competitive and has historically been characterized by low profit margins subject to various uncertainties.  This includes general economic conditions, volatile fuel prices, industry instability, intense competition, a largely unionized work force, the need to finance large capital expenditures and the related availability of capital, government regulation, and potential aircraft incidents.  Airlines have high fixed costs, primarily for wages, aircraft fuel, aircraft ownership, and facilities rents.  Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing has a disproportionate effect on an airline’s operating and financial results.  In other words, a minor shortfall in expected revenue levels could cause a disproportionately negative impact on our operating and financial results.  Passenger demand and ticket prices are, to a large measure, influenced by the general state of the economy, current global economic and political events and total available airline seat capacity.



YEAR IN REVIEW —2011



2011was characterized by continued industry capacity discipline with an increase in passenger traffic.  This allowed for higher load factors and yields, leading others in the industry to report higher revenue and in some cases, stronger adjusted earnings compared to 2010.  Jet fuel prices increased significantly in 2011, and that continues to be an area of concern in2012.



During2011, our key initiative was to optimize revenue.  We continued to redeploy capacity to better match demand, resulting in record passenger load factors.  We also worked to lower non-fuel unit costs to better compete with carriers that have lower cost structures.  Along with our continued focus on customer service and our strong operational performance, we reported record adjusted financial results that again were among the best in the industry.











OUR ABILITY TO REDEPLOY CAPACITY, COMBINED WITH LOWER NON-FUEL UNIT COSTS, OUR CONTINUED FOCUS ON CUSTOMER SERVICE, AND OUR INDUSTRY LEADING ON-TIME PERFORMANCE RESULTED IN 2011 RECORD ADJUSTED FINANCIAL RESULTS THAT WERE AGAIN AMONG THE BEST IN THE INDUSTRY.





FUEL



Our business and financial results are highly affected by the price and, potentially, the availability of jet fuel.  Fuel prices have been extremely volatile over the past few years and are impacted by changes in both the price of crude oil as well as the West Coast refining margin, which represent the price of refining crude oil into jet fuel and can vary by region in the U.S.



The price of crude oil spiked in 2008 with a high of nearly $150 per barrel in July 2008 and dropped significantly to an average of $62 per barrel in 2009.  We saw upward pressure on fuel prices again with an average crude oil price of just over $80 per barrel in 2010 and $95 per barrel in 2011.  For us, a $1 per barrel increase in the price of oil equates to approximately $9 million of additional fuel cost annually.  Said another way, a one-cent change in our fuel price per gallon will impact our expected annual fuel cost by approximately $4 million per year.



While West Coast refining margins are a smaller portion of the overall price of jet fuel than crude oil, they also contributed to the overall price volatility in recent years.  Refining margin prices reached a high of nearly $45 per barrel in May 2008, before they dropped to an average price of $24 per barrel in 2009.  Refining margins prices dropped further in 2010 to average $14 a barrel, but then jumped upwards in 2011 and averaged $33 a barrel for the year.  Generally, West Coast jet fuel prices are somewhat higher and more volatile than prices in the Gulf Coast or on the East Coast, putting our airlines at a slight competitive disadvantage.



We refer to the price we pay for fuel at the airport, including applicable taxes, as our “raw” fuel price.  Historically, fuel costs have generally represented 10% to 15% of an airline’s operating costs, but due to volatility in prices over the past few years, fuel costs have been in the range of 30% to 50% of total operating costs.  Both the crude oil and refining cost components of jet fuel are volatile and outside of our control, and they can have a significant and immediate impact on our operating results.



Our average raw fuel cost per gallon increased36%in2011, 27% in2010, and declined 43% in2009.



We use crude oil call options and jet fuel refining margin swap contracts as hedges to decrease our exposure to the volatility of jet fuel prices.  Both call options and swaps effectively cap our pricing for the crude oil and refining margin components, limiting our exposure to increasing fuel prices for about half of our planned fuel consumption.  With the call option contracts, we still benefit from the decline in crude oil prices, as there is no future cash exposure above the premiums we pay to enter into the contracts.  The swap contracts do not require an upfront premium, but do expose us to future cash outlays in the event actual prices are below the swap price during the hedge period.



OUR AIRCRAFT ARE AMONG THE MOST FUEL-EFFICIENT IN THEIR RESPECTIVE CLASSES.



We believe that operating fuel-efficient aircraft is the best hedge against high fuel prices.  Alaska operates an all-Boeing 737 fleet.  Horizon completed its transition to an all-Q400 turboprop fleet in 2011.  Because of these changes, Alaska’s fuel burn expressed in available seat miles flown per gallon (ASMs/g) improved from 65.9 ASMs/g in 2006 to 76.6 ASMs/g in2011.  Similarly, Horizon’s fuel burn has improved from 51.7 ASMs/g in 2006 to 59.3 ASMs/g in2011.



These reductions have not only reduced our fuel cost, but also the amount of greenhouse gases and other pollutants that our operations emit.





COMPETITION



Competition in the airline industry is intense.  We believe the principal competitive factors in the industry that are important to customers are:



•safety record and reputation,



•fares,



•flight schedules,











•customer service,



•routes served,



•frequent flier programs,



•on-time arrivals,



•baggage handling,



•on-board amenities,



•type of aircraft, and



•codesharing relationships.



We carry approximately 4% of all U.S. domestic passenger traffic.  We compete with one or more domestic or foreign airlines on most of our routes, including both major legacy carriers and low-cost carriers.



Due to its short-haul markets, our regional operations also competes with ground transportation in many markets, including train, bus and automobile transportation.  Both carriers, to some extent, also compete with technology such as video conferencing and internet-based meeting tools that have changed the need for, or frequency of face-to-face business meetings.





ALLIANCES WITH OTHER AIRLINES



We have marketing alliances with a number of airlines that provide reciprocal frequent flyer mileage credit and redemption privileges as well as codesharing on certain flights as shown in the table below.  Alliances are an important part of our strategy and enhance our revenues by:



•offering our customers more travel destinations and better mileage credit/redemption opportunities;



•giving our Mileage Plan program a competitive advantage because of our partnership with carriers from two major global alliances (Oneworld and Skyteam);



•giving us access to more connecting traffic from other airlines; and



•providing members of our alliance partners’ frequent flyer programs an opportunity to travel on Alaska while earning mileage credit in our partners’ programs.



Most of our codeshare relationships are free-sell codeshares, where the marketing carrier sells seats on the operating carrier’s flights from the operating carrier’s inventory, but takes no inventory risk.  Our marketing agreements have various termination dates, and at any time, one or more may be in the process of renegotiation.











Our marketing alliances with other airlines are as follows:

FrequentFlyerAgreementCodeshare —Alaska Flight # onFlights Operated byOther AirlineCodeshare —Other Airline Flight #on Flights Operated byAlaska / Horizon / SkyWestMajor U.S. or International AirlinesAmerican Airlines/American EagleYesYesYesAir FranceYesNoYesBritish AirwaysYesNoNoCathay Pacific AirwaysYesNoYesDelta Air Lines(a)YesYesYesEmirates AirlineYesNoNoIcelandairYesNoYesKLMYesNoYesKorean AirYesNoYesLan S.A.YesNoYesAir Pacific(b)YesNoYesQantasYesNoYesRegional AirlinesSkyWest(b)YesYesNoEra AlaskaYesYesNoPenAir(b)YesYesNoKenmore Air(b)YesNoNo

(a)Alaska has codeshare agreements with the Delta Connection carriers SkyWest, ASA, Pinnacle, Mesaba, Comair and Compass as part of its agreement with Delta.

(b)These airlines do not have their own frequent flyer program.  However, Alaska’s Mileage Plan members can earn and redeem miles on these airlines’ route systems.





TICKET DISTRIBUTION



Airline tickets are distributed through three primary channels:



•Alaskaair.com:It is less expensive for us to sell through this direct channel and, as a result, we continue to take steps to drive more business to our website.  In addition, we believe this channel is preferable from a branding and customer-relationship standpoint in that we can establish ongoing communication with the customer and tailor offers accordingly.



•Traditional and online travel agencies:Both traditional and online travel agencies typically use Global Distribution Systems (GDS), such as Sabre, to obtain their fare and inventory data from airlines.  Bookings made through these agencies result in a fee that is charged to the airline.  Many of our large corporate customers require us to use these agencies.  Some of our competitors do not use this distribution channel and, as a result, have lower ticket distribution costs.



•Reservation call centers:These call centers are located in Phoenix, AZ, Kent, WA, and Boise, ID.  We generally charge a $15 fee for booking reservations through these call centers.



Our sales by channel are as follows:

20112010Alaskaair.com51%48%Traditional agencies28%28%Online travel agencies13%15%Reservation call centers8%9%Total100%100%













SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS



Our results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year because our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations.  Our profitability is generally lowest during the first and fourth quarters due principally to lower traffic.  It typically increases in the second quarter and then reaches its highest level during the third quarter as a result of vacation travel, including increased activity in the state of Alaska.  However, we have taken steps over the past few years to reduce the seasonality of our operations by adding flights to leisure destinations in Hawaii and Mexico.



In addition to passenger loads, factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to vary include:



•general economic conditions and resulting changes in passenger demand,



•      pricing initiatives by us and our competitors,



•changes in fuel costs,



•the timing and amount of maintenance expenditures (both planned and unplanned),



•increases or decreases in passenger and volume-driven variable costs, and



•labor actions.



In addition to those factors listed above, seasonal variations in traffic, the timing of various expenditures and adverse weather conditions may affect our operating results from quarter to quarter.  Many of the markets we serve experience inclement weather conditions in the winter, causing increased costs associated with deicing aircraft, canceled flights and reaccommodation of displaced passengers.  Due to our geographic area of operations, we can be more susceptible to adverse weather conditions (particularly in the state of Alaska and the Pacific Northwest) than some of our competitors, who may be better able to spread weather-related risks over larger route systems.



No material part of our business or that of our subsidiaries is dependent upon a single customer, or upon a few high-volume customers.





EMPLOYEES



Labor costs have historically made up 30% to 40% of an airline’s total operating costs.  Most major airlines, including ours, have employee groups that are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Airlines with unionized work forces have higher labor costs than carriers without unionized work forces, and they may not have the ability to adjust labor costs downward quickly enough to respond to new competition.  New entrants into the U.S. airline industry generally do not have unionized work forces, which can be a competitive advantage for those airlines.



We had 12,806 (9,640 at Alaska and 3,166 at Horizon) active full-time and part-time employees atDecember 31, 2011, compared to 12,039 (9,013 at Alaska and 3,202 at Horizon) atDecember 31, 2010.  Wages, salaries and benefits (including variable incentive pay) represented approximately 41% and 43% of our total non-fuel operating expenses and 27% and 31% of our total expenses in2011and2010, respectively.



AtDecember 31, 2011, labor unions represented 83% of Alaska’s and 47% of Horizon’s employees.  Our relations with our U.S. labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA).  Under this act, collective bargaining agreements do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date.  If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed by the RLA and/or described in the agreement.  After receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board (NMB) to initiate a process including mediation, arbitration, and a potential “cooling off” period that must be followed before either party may engage in self-help.











Alaska’s union contracts atDecember 31, 2011were as follows:

UnionEmployee GroupNumber ofActive EmployeesContract StatusAir Line Pilots Association International (ALPA)Pilots1,393Amendable 4/1/2013Association of Flight Attendants (AFA)Flight attendants2,794In NegotiationsInternational Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM)Ramp service and stock clerks700Amendable 7/17/2012IAMClerical, office and passenger service2,328Amendable 1/1/2014Aircraft Mechanics FraternalAssociation (AMFA)Mechanics, inspectors and cleaners626Amendable 10/17/2016Mexico Workers Association of Air TransportMexico airport personnel92Amendable 9/1/2013Transport Workers Union of America (TWU)Dispatchers36Amendable 3/24/2015



Horizon’s union contracts atDecember 31, 2011were as follows:

UnionEmployee GroupNumber ofActive EmployeesContract StatusInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT)Pilots590Amendable 12/14/2015AFAFlight attendants504In NegotiationsIBTMechanics and related classifications327Amendable 12/16/2014TWUDispatchers18Amendable 8/26/2014National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General WorkersStation personnel in Van-couver and Victoria, BC, Canada59Expires 2/13/2013





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS



The executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and executive officers of Alaska and Horizon who have significant decision-making responsibilities, their positions and their respective ages are as follows:

NamePositionAgeAir Groupor SubsidiaryOfficer SinceWilliam AyerChairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.571985Brandon PedersenVice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc.452003Keith LovelessVice President/Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc.551996Bradley TildenPresident of Alaska Airlines, Inc.511994Glenn JohnsonPresident of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.531991Benito MinicucciExecutive Vice President/Operations and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines, Inc.452004Kelley DobbsVice President/Human Resources of Alaska Airlines, Inc.452004



Mr. Ayerhas been Air Group's President since February 2003 and became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in May 2003.  He has also served as Alaska Airlines’ Chairman since February 2003, as Chief Executive Officer since January 2002 and was









President from November 1997 to December 2008.  He has served as Horizon Air Industries' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since June 2010.  Prior to that, he was Sr. Vice President/Customer Service, Marketing and Planning of Alaska Airlines from January 1997, and Vice President/Marketing and Planning from August 1995.  Prior thereto, he served as Sr. Vice President/Operations of Horizon Air Industries from January 1995.  Mr. Ayer also serves on the boards of Puget Energy, Inc., the Alaska Airlines Foundation, Angel Flight West, Inc., and the Museum of Flight.  He also serves on the University of Washington Business School Advisory Board, and as a director of the Seattle branch of the Federal Reserve Board.  In January 2012, Mr. Ayer was appointed to the University of Washington Board of Regents.  On February 16, 2012, the Company announced that Mr. Ayer will resign as CEO but will remain as executive chairman of the board, effective May 15, 2012.



Mr. Pedersenjoined Alaska Airlines in 2003 as Staff Vice President/Finance and Controller of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines and was elected Vice President/Finance and Controller for both entities in 2006.  He was elected Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in June 2010.  He is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Lovelessbecame Corporate Secretary and Assistant General Counsel of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in 1996.  In 1999, he was named Vice President/Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Tildenjoined Alaska Airlines in 1991, became Controller of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in 1994, Chief Financial Officer in February 2000, Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer in January 2002, Executive Vice President/Finance and Planning in 2007, and President of Alaska Airlines in December 2008.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee and was elected to the Air Group Board in 2010.  On February 16, 2012, the Company announced the appointment of Mr. Tilden as the Chief Executive Officer, effective May 15, 2012.



Mr. Johnsonjoined Alaska Airlines in 1982, became Vice President/Controller and Treasurer of Horizon Air Industries in 1991 and Vice President/Customer Services in 2002.  He returned to Alaska Airlines in 2003 where he has served in several roles, including Vice President/Finance and Controller and Vice President/Finance and Treasurer.  He served as Senior Vice President/Customer Service – Airports from January 2006 through April 2007 and in April 2007, he was elected Executive Vice President/Airports and Maintenance and Engineering.  He was elected Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in December 2008.  He was elected President of Horizon Air Industries in June 2010.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Minicuccijoined Alaska Airlines in 2004 as Staff Vice President of Maintenance and Engineering and was promoted to Vice President of Seattle Operations in June 2008.  In December 2008 he was elected Executive Vice President/Operations and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.



Ms. Dobbsjoined Alaska Airlines in 1987, became Staff Vice President/Human Resources – Staffing and Development in 2004, Vice President/Human Resources – Strategy, Culture and Inclusion in June 2007, Vice President/Human Resources and Labor Relations in 2009, and Vice President/Human Resources in 2011.  She is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.





REGULATION





GENERAL



The airline industry is highly regulated.



The Department of Transportation (DOT), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.



•DOT:In order to provide passenger and cargo air transportation in the U.S., a domestic airline is required to hold a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT.  Subject to certain individual airport capacity, noise and other restrictions, this certificate permits an air carrier to operate between any two points in the U.S. Certificates do not expire, but may be revoked for failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders or the terms of the certificates.  In addition,the DOT has jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, marketing alliance agreements between major domestic carriers, international and some domestic route authorities, Essential Air Service market subsidies, and carrier liability for personal or property damage.  International treaties may also contain restrictions or requirements for flying outside of the U.S. and impose different carrier liability limits than those applicable to domestic flights.  The DOT has recently been active in implementing a variety of “passenger protection”









regulations, covering subjects such as advertising, passenger communications, denied boarding compensation and tarmac delay response.  As of January 26, 2012, carriers must adhere to DOT’s full-fare advertising rule, which requires quoted fares to include all applicable government taxes and fees.



•FAA:The FAA, through Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs), generally regulates all aspects of airline operations, including establishing personnel, maintenance and flight operation standards.  Domestic airlines are required to hold a valid air carrier operating certificate issued by the FAA.  Pursuant to these regulations we have established, and the FAA has approved, our operations specifications and a maintenance program for each type of aircraft we operate.  The maintenance program provides for the ongoing maintenance of such aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major overhauls.  From time to time the FAA issues airworthiness directives (ADs) that must be incorporated into our aircraft maintenance program and operations. All airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the FAA from time to time for alleged violations of FARs or ADs.  At this time, we are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate.



•TSA:Airlines serving the U.S. must operate a TSA-approved Aircraft Operator Standard Security Program (AOSSP), and comply with TSA Security Directives (SDs) and regulations.  Airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the TSA from time to time for alleged violations of the AOSSP, SDs or security regulations.  We are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate.  Under TSA authority, we are also required to collect a September 11 Security Fee of $2.50 per enplanement from passengers and remit that sum to the government to fund aviation security measures.  Carriers  also pay the TSA a security infrastructure fee to cover passenger and property screening costs.  These security infrastructure fees amounted to $12.6 million each year in 2011, 2010 and 2009.



The Department of Justice and DOT have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters.  The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services.  Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act.  To the extent we continue to fly to foreign countries and pursue alliances with international carriers, we may be subject to certain regulations of foreign agencies.





AIRLINE FARES



Airlines are permitted to establish their own fares without governmental regulation and the industry is characterized by vigorous price competition.  International fares and rates are also subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries we serve.





ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



We are subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries.  U.S. federal laws that have a particular effect on us include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or Superfund Act.  We are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, OSHA, and other federal agencies have been authorized to create and enforce regulations that have an impact on our operations.  In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under these federal statutes.  Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations.  We maintain our safety, health and environmental programs in order to meet or exceed these requirements.



It is expected that there will be legislation in the future to reduce carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions.  Alaska and Horizon have transitioned to more fuel-efficient aircraft fleets, thereby greatly reducing our total emissions.



The Airport Noise and Capacity Act recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system.  Authorities in several cities have established aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews.  We believe we have sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions.



Although we do not currently anticipate that these regulatory matters, individually or collectively, will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, new regulations or compliance issues that we do not currently anticipate could have the potential to harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in future periods.













CUSTOMER SERVICE



Along with other domestic airlines, we have implemented a customer service commitment plan to address a number of service goals and regulatory requirements, including, but not limited to, goals relating to lowest fare availability, delays, cancellations and diversions, baggage delivery and liability, guaranteed fares and ticket refunds.  As a testament to our service, Alaska has won the JD Power and Associates award for "Highest in Customer Satisfaction Among Traditional Network Carriers" for the past four years.





INSURANCE



We carry Airline Hull, Spares and Comprehensive Legal Liability Insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice to cover damage to aircraft, spare parts and spare engines, as well as bodily injury and property damage to passengers and third parties.  Since the September 11, 2001 attacks, this insurance program excludes coverage for War and Allied Perils, including hijacking, terrorism, malicious acts, strikes, riots, civil commotion and other identified perils.  So, like other airlines, the company has purchased war risk coverage for such events through the U.S. government.



We believe that our emphasis on safety and our state-of-the-art flight deck safety technology help to control the cost of aviation insurance.





WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION



Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on our website atwww.alaskaair.com,free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information contained on our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K.





