ITEM 1.  OUR BUSINESS



Alaska Air Group operates Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air, which together with its partner regional airlines, serve nearly 100 cities through an expansive network in Alaska, the Lower 48, Hawaii, Canada and Mexico.  During2013, we carried27 millionpassengers while earning record full-year adjusted earnings of$383 million.



Our objective is to be one of the most respected U.S. airlines by our customers, employees, and shareholders.  We believe our success depends on our ability to provide safe air transportation, develop relationships with customers by providing exceptional customer service and low fares, and maintain a competitive cost structure to compete effectively.  Over the past decade, we have worked to transform our company to achieve these objectives.  In


, Alaska Airlines ranked “Highest in Customer Satisfaction among Traditional Network Carriers” by J.D. Power and Associates for the

sixth

year in a row.  We have been the leader in the industry for on-time performance among major airlines for the past four years.  In


, we reported our

tenth

consecutive annual profit on an adjusted basis, and achieved an after-tax return on invested capital of

13.6%

, surpassing our 10% goal for the

fourth

year in a row.  Strong earnings improved our cash flow and strengthened our balance sheet resulting in (i) lower debt-to-capital ratio of

35%

, (ii) cash and marketable securities balance of $1.3 billion, and (iii) fully-funded defined-benefit pension plans.  This minimizes our financial risk and led Standard and Poor's to upgrade our credit rating to "BB+" in


.  In addition, over the past decade, we have diversified our network to better respond to the seasonality in our business and provide more destinations for our customers.  Since 2007, we have added 102 new routes to our network.  As we look to the future, we will build on the success of the past few years by executing our strategic plan — the Five Focus Areas:



Safety and Compliance

We have an unwavering commitment to run a safe and compliant operation, and we will not compromise this commitment in the pursuit of other initiatives.  Alaska and Horizon, in coordination with the FAA, began implementing a Safety Management System (SMS) to better identify and manage risk.  Both airlines achieved Level 2 certification in2013, and are currently moving forward to Level 3 certification. Our goal is to reach Level 4 certification for a fully-implemented and FAA-approved SMS by 2015.  During the current year, 100% of our Alaska aircraft technicians completed the requirements for the FAA's "Diamond Certificate of Excellence" award for the 12th consecutive year and our Horizon aircraft technicians completed the requirements for the 12th time in the last 14 years.



People Focus

While aircraft and technology enable us to provide air transportation, we recognize this is fundamentally a people business and our success depends on our employees.  Strengthening our "small company feel" will allow our employees to execute as a unified team on the frontlines and behind the scenes.  Air Group employees have attended our Flight Path program, a one-day workshop to share the future vision for our company.  In addition, all employees participate in the Performance-Based Pay (PBP) and Operational Performance Rewards (OPR) programs, which encourage employees to work together to achieve metrics related to safety, profitability, on-time performance, low costs and customer satisfaction.  Over the lastfiveyears, our incentive programs have paid out over$430 million.  This is consistent with one of our guiding principles that we want to pay our people well with a goal of reaching the industry’s best productivity over time.  To that end, we signed three long-term agreements with various labor groups during the year and reached tentative five-year agreements with the Alaska flight attendants in December 2013 and with the clerical, office, and passenger service employees in February 2014.  Additionally, we have voluntarily contributed$620 millionto our pensions over the past five years, making us the only airline that has fully-funded defined-benefit pension plans.



Hassle-Free Customer Experience

We want to be the easiest airline to fly, which we will do by improving each step of the customer's journey from booking a ticket to our in-flight experience.  During2013, we upgraded our Android and iPhone applications to allow our customers to book tickets, shop for partner awards, sign up for the Mileage Plan, pay for bags, track flight details, check-in, get push notifications, utilize iPhone Passbook and Google Wallet, and view upgrade status and standby lists.  We surpassed 1 million customer downloads of our apps during the year.  We also increased the number of self-bag tagging locations to eight in2013(SEA, PDX, ANC, SAN, SAT, SLC, MCI, and MSP), which allows customers to print and attach their own luggage tags from a self-service kiosk in the airport lobby.  We tested at home web bag-tagging for those traveling direct to our Hawaii destinations and are working closely with the TSA to offer this option more broadly in 2014.  The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Pre-Check Program is available in 27 of our locations, which allows eligible customers to opt-in for reduced screening









requirements, and the Pre-Check notification is now visible on our boarding passes.   As passengers take more control of their travel experience, we are able to reduce the time it takes a customer to move from the airport curb to the aircraft.



At Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (Sea-Tac), we started transforming the airport's North Satellite terminal into an upgraded, modernized facility that will become our airlines' primary terminal and will enhance the customer experience and support growth.  The project will include design upgrades, enhanced traveler amenities, additional gates, and a new roof-top Boardroom.  Together with the Sea-Tac Airport, we will break ground in 2014 on a project to install sloped walkways from the C-Concourse to ground-level boarding areas along with new covered walkways to the aircraft.  In several years, Alaska will be the sole airline tenant of the North Satellite and Horizon will operate entirely from the C Concourse.



We continued to improve our in-flight experience with our cabin upgrade project, featuring the innovative and comfortable Recaro seats with both 110-volt and USB power outlets for every passenger, and an enhanced inflight entertainment system that allows customers to stream movies and television shows to any Wi-Fi enabled device.  The first aircraft complete with seats with power  debuted in December and we expect to finish the project for the majority of our 737's by the end of 2014.  Also in 2013, we purchased nine new 737-900ER's with the Boeing Sky Interior, which includes variable ambient cabin lighting, larger window recesses, and overhead bins which provide more headroom all designed to offer a greater sense of space.  In 2014, we expect to purchase ten new 737-900ER's with the Boeing Sky Interior.



Energetic and Compelling Brand

We are fortunate to have high brand awareness and customer loyalty in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska, our core markets.  To maintain market share in core markets, while also growing in newer markets like California, Hawaii and cities in the mid-continental and eastern U.S., we believe we must better understand what is important to our customers, and position our brand appropriately to help differentiate us from the competition.  In 2013, we aggressively optimized our marketing initiatives to help us to continue to raise awareness and consideration in new markets and increase advocacy in established ones.  In pursuit of building an energetic and compelling brand, in 2014, we will be making a significant investment in our brand refresh initiative.



We continue to leverage our brand and technology to develop a direct relationship with more of our customers.  In2013, approximately55%of our ticket sales were made throughalaskaair.com, up a point from 2012.  In addition to more traditional online advertising efforts, we continue to invest in our social media communities, such as Facebook and Twitter.  We saw healthy increases in both of our primary social communities with Facebook growing by 45.9% and Twitter by 43.2%.

In2013, we expanded our customer support team so that we can continue to provide customers with exceptional customer service throughout their journey.



Also in support of our brand, we position ourselves as the industry leader in community and environmental stewardship. In2013, we were named the most fuel-efficient airline in the U.S. by the International Council on Clean Transportation, collected and recycled over 77% of waste collected during flights, and donated $7.6 million to more than 1,300 charitable organizations including support for the grand opening of Aviation High School in Seattle and other educational efforts. Our employees also volunteered more than 10,500 hours of community service.



Low Fares, Low Costs and Network Growth

In order to provide low fares to our customers while returning value to our shareholders, we believe we must maintain a competitive cost structure.  In2013, we lowered our unit costs, excluding fuel, by0.1%on a consolidated basis, representing the 11th such annual reduction out of the past 12 years.  We achieved this through a continued focus on productivity.  In2013, we increased employee productivity by4.0%and will continue to focus on that metric as we leverage growth.  We also continue to manage fuel costs by flying larger, more fuel-efficient aircraft, which have increased our fuel efficiency as measured by available seat miles flown per gallon by3.7%over the last five years.  Looking forward, we have committed to purchasing32737-900ER and37737-MAX aircraft, with deliveries in2014to2022, to position us for growth and ensure we will continue to operate the quietest and most fuel-efficient aircraft available for the foreseeable future.



In2013, we added 17 new markets to our network and exited two as we continued to better match supply with demand.  We diversified our network further to offer more utility to our customers by expanding services out of Anchorage, Portland, San Diego, and Seattle, and began service to Salt Lake City, Omaha, Steamboat Springs, and Colorado Springs. We will also add new routes out of Salt Lake City to Boise, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Portland, San Diego, San Jose, and San Francisco in2014.













AIR GROUP



Alaska Air Group is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1985 and the holding company of Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air.  Although Alaska and Horizon both operate as airlines, their business plans, competition, and economic risks differ substantially.  Alaska Airlines is an Alaska corporation that was organized in 1932 and incorporated in 1937.  Horizon Air Industries is a Washington corporation that first began service and was incorporated in 1981.  Horizon was acquired by Air Group in 1986.  Alaska operates a fleet of passenger jets (mainline) and contracts with Horizon, SkyWest Airlines, Inc. (SkyWest) and Peninsula Airways, Inc. (PenAir) for regional capacity under which Alaska receives all passenger revenue from those flights.  Horizon operates a fleet of turboprop aircraft and sells all of its capacity to Alaska pursuant to a capacity purchase arrangement.



We attempt to deploy aircraft into the network in ways that best optimize our revenues and profitability, and reduce our seasonality.



The percentage of our capacity by market is as follows:

20132012201120102009West Coast34%35%37%41%45%Alaska16%17%18%19%20%Transcon/midcon22%19%19%19%17%Hawaii19%20%16%11%7%Mexico7%7%9%8%8%Canada2%2%1%2%3%Total100%100%100%100%100%





MAINLINE



We offer extensive north/south service within the western U.S., Canada and Mexico, and passenger and dedicated cargo services to and within the state of Alaska.  We also provide long-haul east/west service to Hawaii and 20 cities in the mid-continental and eastern U.S., primarily from Seattle, where we have our largest concentration of departures; although we do offer long-haul departures from other cities as well.



In2013, we carried19.7 millionrevenue passengers in our mainline operations, and we carry more passengers between Alaska and the U.S. mainland than any other airline.  Based on the number of passengers carried in2013, Alaska’s leading airports are Seattle, Los Angeles, Anchorage, Portland, and San Diego.  Based on2013revenues, the leading nonstop routes are Seattle-Anchorage, Seattle-Los Angeles, Seattle-San Diego, Seattle-Las Vegas, and Seattle-San Francisco.  AtDecember 31, 2013, Alaska’s operating fleet consisted of131Boeing 737 jet aircraft, compared to124B737 aircraft as ofDecember 31, 2012.



The percentage of mainline passenger capacity by market and average stage length is presented below:

20132012201120102009West Coast28%29%31%33%37%Within Alaska and between Alaska and the U.S. mainland18%18%20%21%23%Transcon/midcon25%22%21%24%23%Hawaii21%22%18%13%8%Mexico7%8%8%7%7%Canada1%1%2%2%2%Total100%100%100%100%100%Average Stage Length1,1771,1611,1141,0851,034















REGIONAL



Our regional operations consist of flights operated by Horizon, SkyWest and PenAir.  In2013, our regional operations carried approximately7.7 millionrevenue passengers, primarily in the states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho and California.  Horizon is the largest regional airline in the Pacific Northwest and represents over 90% of Air Group's regional revenue passengers.



Based on2013passenger enplanements on regional aircraft, our leading airports are Seattle and Portland.  Based on revenues in2013, our leading nonstop routes are Seattle-Portland, Seattle-Spokane, and Seattle-Boise.  AtDecember 31, 2013, Horizon’s operating fleet consisted of51Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft, compared to48Q400's atDecember 31, 2012.  Horizon flights are listed under Alaska's designator code in airline reservation systems, and in all customer-facing locations.



The percentage of regional passenger capacity by market and average stage length is presented below:

20132012201120102009West Coast66%68%68%71%71%Pacific Northwest21%20%19%17%18%Canada9%9%9%9%8%Within Alaska2%2%2%2%2%Mexico1%1%2%1%1%Midcon1%—%—%—%—%Total100%100%100%100%100%Average Stage Length290294309333327





INDUSTRY CONDITIONS, COMPETITION, AND ALLIANCES





GENERAL



The airline industry is highly competitive, subject to various uncertainties, and has historically been characterized by low profit margins.  Uncertainties include general economic conditions, volatile fuel prices, industry instability, new competition, a largely unionized work force, the need to finance large capital expenditures and the related availability of capital, government regulation, and potential aircraft incidents.  Airlines have high fixed costs, primarily for wages, aircraft fuel, aircraft ownership, and facilities rents.  Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly based on the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing has a disproportionate effect on an airline’s operating and financial results.  In other words, a minor shortfall in expected revenue levels could cause a disproportionately negative impact on our operating and financial results.  Passenger demand and ticket prices are, to a large measure, influenced by the general state of the economy, current global economic and political events, and total available airline seat capacity.



In2013, the airline industry is expected to report record revenues and profits with passengers topping 3 billion for the first time in history.  As the industry recovers from the deficits accumulated in the past decade, airlines are now moving toward making significant investments in the customer experience to attract demand, and thus, the level of competition is expected to increase in the future years.





FUEL



Our business and financial results are highly affected by the price and, potentially, the availability of aircraft fuel.  The cost of aircraft fuel is volatile and outside of our control, and it can have a significant and immediate impact on our operating results.  Over the past five years, aircraft fuel expense ranged from21%to35%of operating expenses. Fuel prices are impacted by changes in both the price of crude oil and refining margins, and can vary by region in the U.S.



The price of crude oil has ranged from a low of$62per barrel in2009to a high of $112 in 2011, and averaged$98per barrel in2013.  For us, a $1 per barrel increase in the price of oil equates to approximately$11 millionof additional fuel cost annually.  Said another way, a one-cent change in our fuel price per gallon will impact our expected annual fuel cost by approximately$4.5 millionper year.











Refining margins, which represent the price of refining crude oil into aircraft fuel, are a smaller portion of the overall price of jet fuel, but also contributed to the price volatility in recent years.  Refining margin prices have fluctuated between$2per barrel and$50per barrel in the last five years.



Generally, West Coast aircraft fuel prices are somewhat higher and more volatile than prices in the Gulf Coast or on the East Coast, putting our mainline operation at a competitive disadvantage.  Our average raw fuel cost per gallondecreased4%in2013, increased 2% in2012, and increased 36% in2011.



The percentage of our aircraft fuel expense by crude and refining margins, as well as the percentage of our aircraft fuel expense of operating expenses are as follows:

20132012201120102009Crude oil71%65%70%79%82%Refining margins19%25%24%14%13%Other(a)10%10%6%7%5%Total100%100%100%100%100%Aircraft fuel expense34%35%34%27%21%

(a)Other includes gains and losses on settled fuel hedges, unrealized mark-to-market fuel hedge gains or losses, taxes and other into-plane costs.



We use crude oil call options and jet fuel refining margin swap contracts as hedges to decrease our exposure to the volatility of jet fuel prices.  Both call options and swaps effectively cap our pricing for the crude oil and refining margin components, limiting our exposure to increasing fuel prices for about half of our planned fuel consumption.  With the call option contracts, we still benefit from the decline in crude oil prices, as there is no future cash exposure above the premiums we pay to enter into the contracts.  The swap contracts do not require an upfront premium, but do expose us to future cash outlays in the event actual prices are below the swap price during the hedge period.  During the second quarter of 2013, we changed the tenor of our hedging program.  Since then, we have been hedging approximately 18 months in advance of consumption compared to 36 months historically.  Additionally, we will reach our target of having 50% of consumption hedged 6 months in advance compared to 12 months historically.



We believe that operating fuel-efficient aircraft is the best hedge against high fuel prices.  Alaska operates an all-Boeing 737 fleet and Horizon operates an all-Bombardier Q400 turboprop fleet.  Air Group's fuel-efficiency rate expressed in available seat miles flown per gallon (ASMs/g) improved from72.6ASMs/g in2009to75.3ASMs/g in2013.  These improvements have not only reduced our fuel consumption rate, but also the amount of greenhouse gases and other pollutants that our operations emit.





COMPETITION



Competition in the airline industry is intense and unpredictable.  Our competitors consist primarily of other airlines and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation.  Competition can be direct, in the form of another carrier flying the exact non-stop route, or indirect, where a carrier serves the same two cities non-stop from an alternative airport in that city or via an itinerary requiring a connection at another airport. Our five principal competitors, in order of competitive overlap, are Delta, United, Southwest, American, and Hawaiian.  Based on schedules filed with the U.S. Department of Transportation, we expect the amount of competitive overlap from these carriers to increase 9% in 2014.  We also compete with several other domestic and international carriers, but to a lesser extent than our principal competitors.



We believe that the following principal competitive factors are important to our customers:



•Safety record



•Customer service and reputation



We compete with other airlines in areas of customer service such as on-time performance, passenger amenities - including first class seating, quality of buy-on-board products, aircraft type, and comfort.  In2013, Alaska Airlines ranked “Highest in Customer Satisfaction among Traditional Network Carriers” by J.D. Power and Associates for thesixthyear in a row.  All of our 2013 mainline aircraft deliveries included the Boeing Sky Interior and the innovative and comfortable Recaro seats. In 2014, we will continue to improve our in-flight experience with our cabin upgrade project featuring the Recaro seats with power outlets for every passenger flying our B737-800, -900, and -900ER









aircraft.  Additionally, FlightStats.com has named Alaska Airlines the No. 1 on-time major carrier in North America for each of the past three years, 2010-2012, and as of November 2013, we were the No. 1 on-time major carrier in North America for the past 12 months.



•Fares and ancillary services



The pricing of fares is a significant competitive factor in the airline industry, and the increased availability of fare information on the Internet allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. Pricing is driven by a variety of factors, including but not limited to, market-specific capacity, market share per route/geographic area, cost structure, fare vs. ancillary revenue strategies, and demand.



For example, airlines often discount fares to drive traffic in new markets or to stimulate traffic when necessary to improve load factors. In addition, legacy carriers have been able to reduce their operating costs through bankruptcies and mergers, while low-cost carriers have continued to grow their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile (the average cost to fly an aircraft seat (empty or full) one mile), which in turn may enable them to lower their fares.  These factors can reduce our pricing power and that of the airline industry as a whole.



The domestic airline capacity is dominated by four large carriers, representing approximately 85% of total seats.  Accordingly, if these carriers discount their fares or enter into our core markets, we must match those fares in order to maintain our load factors, often resulting in year-over-year decreases in our yields.  We will defend our core markets vigorously, and if necessary redeploy capacity to better match supply with demand.  We believe the restructuring we've made over the past decade has decreased our costs to the point we can offer low fares while still earning a pre-tax margin greater than 10%.



•Routes served, flight schedules, codesharing and interline relationships, and frequent flyer programs



We also compete with other airlines based on markets served, the frequency of service to those markets, and frequent flyer opportunities.  Some airlines have more extensive route structures than we do, and they offer significantly more international routes.  In order to expand opportunities for our customers, we enter into codesharing and interline relationships with other airlines that provide reciprocal frequent flyer mileage credit and redemption privileges.  These relationships allow us to offer our customers access to more destinations than we can on our own,  gain exposure in markets we don't serve, and allow our customers more opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flyer miles. In December 2013, we announced that our Mileage Plan members will be able to earn elite qualifying miles on all of our international parters, providing them with even more utility from their membership.  The Mileage Plan elite-level programs include bonus flight miles, complimentary upgrades, priority check-in and boarding, preferred seats, discounted airport lounge membership, fee waivers and access to exclusive events.



In addition to domestic or foreign airlines that we compete with on most of our routes, we also compete with ground transportation in our short-haul markets in the regional operations.  Both carriers, to some extent, also compete with technology such as video conferencing and internet-based meeting tools that have changed the need for, or frequency of face-to-face business meetings.





AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER AIRLINES



Our agreements fall into three different categories: Frequent Flyer, Codeshare, and Interline agreements.  Frequent Flyer Agreements offer reciprocal frequent flyer mileage credit and redemption privileges for our customers.  Alaska offers one of the most comprehensive frequent flyer programs for our Mileage Plan members through our frequent flyer partnerships with a number of domestic and international carriers.



Codeshare agreements allow one or more marketing carriers to sell seats on a single operating carrier that services passengers under multiple flight numbers.  The sale of codeshare seats can vary depending on the sale arrangement. For example, in a free-sale arrangement, the marketing carrier sells the operating carrier's inventory without any restriction; whereas in a block space arrangement, fixed amount of seats are sold to the marketing carrier by the operating carrier.  The interchangeability of the flight code between carriers provides a greater selection of flights for customers, along with increased flexibility for mileage accrual and redemption.



Interline agreements allow airlines to jointly offer a competitive, single-fare itinerary to customers traveling via multiple carriers to a final destination.  An interline itinerary offered by one airline may not necessarily be offered by the other, and the









fare collected from passengers are prorated and distributed to interline partners according to preexisting agreements between the carriers.  Frequent Flyer, Codeshare, and Interline agreements help increase our traffic and revenue by providing more route choices to customers.



We have marketing alliances with a number of airlines that provide frequent flyer and codesharing opportunities.  Alliances are an important part of our strategy and enhance our revenues by:



•offering our customers more travel destinations and better mileage credit/redemption opportunities, including elite qualifying miles on all of our major U.S. and international airline partners;



•giving our Mileage Plan program a competitive advantage because of our partnership with carriers from two of the three major global alliances (Oneworld and Skyteam);



•giving us access to more connecting traffic from other airlines; and



•providing members of our alliance partners’ frequent flyer programs an opportunity to travel on Alaska and its regional affiliates while earning mileage credit in our partners’ programs.



Most of our codeshare relationships are free-sale codeshares, where the marketing carrier sells seats on the operating carrier’s flights from the operating carrier’s inventory, but takes no inventory risk.  Our marketing agreements have various termination dates, and at any time, one or more may be in the process of renegotiation.



The comprehensive summary of alliances with other airlines are as follows:

FrequentFlyerAgreementCodeshare —Alaska Flight # onFlights Operated byOther AirlineCodeshare —Other Airline Flight #on Flights Operated byAlaska / Horizon / SkyWestMajor U.S. or International AirlinesAeromexico(a)YesNoYesAmerican Airlines/American EagleYesYesYesAir FranceYesNoYesBritish AirwaysYesNoNoCathay Pacific AirwaysYesNoYesDelta Air Lines(b)YesYesYesEmiratesYesNoYesKLMYesNoYesKorean AirYesNoYesLAN S.A.YesNoYesFiji Airways(c)YesNoYesQantasYesNoYesRegional AirlinesSkyWest(c)YesYesNoEra AlaskaYesYesNoPenAir(c)YesYesNo

(a)Alaska and Aeromexico launched a new codeshare partnership in December 2012, and began reciprocal frequent flyer partnership in July 2013.

(b)Alaska has codeshare agreements with the Delta Connection carriers SkyWest, ExpressJet, Pinnacle, and Compass as part of its agreement with Delta.

(c)These airlines do not have their own frequent flyer program.  However, Alaska’s Mileage Plan members can earn and redeem miles on these airlines’ route systems.











The following is the financial impact of our marketing alliances:

20132012201120102009Air Group Marketed Revenues90.0%90.2%89.3%89.9%89.3%Codeshare Agreements:Delta Air Lines3.8%3.4%3.6%3.7%1.9%American Airlines2.6%2.7%3.4%3.1%3.4%Others0.9%0.8%0.8%0.8%2.3%Interline Agreements:Domestic Interline1.9%2.1%2.2%1.9%2.5%International Interline0.8%0.8%0.7%0.6%0.6%Total Operating Revenue100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%100.0%





TICKET DISTRIBUTION



Airline tickets are distributed through three primary channels:



•Alaskaair.com:It is less expensive for us to sell through this direct channel and, as a result, we continue to take steps to drive more business to our website.  In addition, we believe this channel is preferable from a branding and customer-relationship standpoint in that we can establish ongoing communication with the customer and tailor offers accordingly.



•Traditional and online travel agencies:Both traditional and online travel agencies typically use Global Distribution Systems (GDS), such as Sabre, to obtain their fare and inventory data from airlines.  Bookings made through these agencies result in a fee that is charged to the airline.  Many of our large corporate customers require us to use these agencies.  Some of our competitors do not use this distribution channel and, as a result, have lower ticket distribution costs.



•Reservation call centers:These call centers are located in Phoenix, AZ, Kent, WA, and Boise, ID.  We generally charge a $15 fee for booking reservations through these call centers.



Our sales by channel are as follows:

20132012201120102009Alaskaair.com55%54%51%48%45%Traditional agencies27%27%28%28%32%Online travel agencies13%13%13%15%11%Reservation call centers5%6%8%9%12%Total100%100%100%100%100%





SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS



Our results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year because our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations.  Our profitability is generally lowest during the first and fourth quarters due principally to lower traffic.  Profitability typically increases in the second quarter and then reaches its highest level during the third quarter as a result of vacation travel, including increased activity in the state of Alaska.  However, we have taken steps over the past few years to better manage the seasonality of our operations by adding flights to leisure destinations, like Hawaii, and expanding to cities in the mid-continental and eastern U.S.



In addition to passenger loads, factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to vary include:



•general economic conditions and resulting changes in passenger demand,



•      changes in fuel costs,



•pricing initiatives by us or our competitors,











•the timing and amount of maintenance expenditures (both planned and unplanned), and



•increases or decreases in passenger and volume-driven variable costs.



Many of the markets we serve experience inclement weather conditions in the winter, causing increased costs associated with deicing aircraft, canceling flights, and reaccommodating displaced passengers.  Due to our geographic area of operations, we can be more susceptible to adverse weather conditions, particularly in the state of Alaska and the Pacific Northwest, than some of our competitors, who may be better able to spread weather-related risks over larger route systems.



No material part of our business or that of our subsidiaries is dependent upon a single customer, or upon a few high-volume customers.





EMPLOYEES



Our business is labor intensive.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we employed13,177(10,201at Alaska and2,976at Horizon) active full-time and part-time employees.  Wages and benefits, including variable incentive pay, represented approximately42%of our total non-fuel operating expenses in both2013and2012.



Most major airlines, including ours, have employee groups that are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Airlines with unionized work forces have higher labor costs than carriers without unionized work forces, and they may not have the ability to adjust labor costs downward quickly enough to respond to new competition.  AtDecember 31, 2013, labor unions represented83%of Alaska’s and49%of Horizon’s employees.  Our relations with our U.S. labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA).  Under this act, collective bargaining agreements do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date.  If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed by the RLA and/or described in the agreement.  After receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board (NMB) to initiate a process including mediation, arbitration, and a potential “cooling off” period that must be followed before either party may engage in self-help.



Alaska’s union contracts atDecember 31, 2013were as follows:UnionEmployee GroupNumber of EmployeesContract StatusAir Line Pilots Association International (ALPA)Pilots1,440Amendable 03/31/2018Association of Flight Attendants (AFA)Flight attendants3,132Tentative agreement reached.International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM)Ramp service and stock clerks598Amendable 7/19/2018IAMClerical, office and passenger service2,508Tentative agreement reached.Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (AMFA)Mechanics, inspectors and cleaners632Amendable 10/17/2016Mexico Workers Association of Air TransportMexico airport personnel99Amendable 9/29/2014Transport Workers Union of America (TWU)Dispatchers41Amendable 3/24/2015









Horizon’s union contracts atDecember 31, 2013were as follows:

UnionEmployee GroupNumber of EmployeesContract StatusInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT)Pilots551Amendable 12/14/2018AFAFlight attendants545Amendable 07/18/18IBTMechanics and related classifications274Amendable 12/16/2014TWUDispatchers16Amendable 8/26/2014National Automobile, Aerospace, Transportation and General WorkersStation personnel inVancouver and Victoria, BC, Canada49Amendable 2/14/2016IAMMaintenance Stores33In Negotiations





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS



The executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and executive officers of Alaska and Horizon who have significant decision-making responsibilities, their positions and their respective ages are as follows:

NamePositionAgeAir Groupor SubsidiaryOfficer SinceBradley TildenChairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Chief Executive Officer of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.531994Glenn JohnsonExecutive Vice President of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and President of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.551991Keith LovelessExecutive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc.571996Benito MinicucciExecutive Vice President/Operations and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines, Inc.472004Brandon PedersenVice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc.472003



Mr. Tildenjoined Alaska Airlines in 1991, became Controller of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines in 1994, Chief Financial Officer in February 2000, Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer in January 2002, Executive Vice President/Finance and Planning in 2007, and President of Alaska Airlines in December 2008.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee and was elected to the Air Group Board in 2010.  He was elected Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc., Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air Industries in May 2012, and was elected Chairman of the Board in November 2013.



Mr. Johnsonjoined Alaska Airlines in 1982, became Vice President/Controller and Treasurer of Horizon Air Industries in 1991 and Vice President/Customer Services in 2002.  He returned to Alaska Airlines in 2003 where he has served in several roles, including Vice President/Finance and Controller and Vice President/Finance and Treasurer.  He served as Senior Vice President/Customer Service – Airports from January 2006 through April 2007 and in April 2007, he was elected Executive Vice President/Airports and Maintenance and Engineering.  He was elected Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in December 2008.  He was elected President of Horizon Air Industries in June 2010.  He was elected Executive Vice President Alaska Air Group in November 2012.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Lovelessbecame Corporate Secretary and Assistant General Counsel of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in 1996.  In 1999, he was named Vice President/Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air









Group and Alaska Airlines.  He was elected Executive Vice President Alaska Air Group in November 2012.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Minicuccijoined Alaska Airlines in 2004 as Staff Vice President of Maintenance and Engineering and was promoted to Vice President of Seattle Operations in June 2008.  He was elected Executive Vice President/Operations and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines in December 2008.  He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee.



Mr. Pedersenjoined Alaska Airlines in 2003 as Staff Vice President/Finance and Controller of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines and was elected Vice President/Finance and Controller for both entities in 2006.  He was elected Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in June 2010.  He is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee.





REGULATION





GENERAL



The airline industry is highly regulated.  The Department of Transportation (DOT), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.



•DOT:In order to provide passenger and cargo air transportation in the U.S., a domestic airline is required to hold a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT.  Subject to certain individual airport capacity, noise and other restrictions, this certificate permits an air carrier to operate between any two points in the U.S. Certificates do not expire, but may be revoked for failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders or the terms of the certificates.  While airlines are permitted to establish their own fares without governmental regulation,the DOT has jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, marketing alliance agreements between major domestic carriers, international and some domestic route authorities, Essential Air Service market subsidies, carrier liability for personal or property damage, and certain airport rates and charges disputes.  International treaties may also contain restrictions or requirements for flying outside of the U.S. and impose different carrier liability limits than those applicable to domestic flights.  The DOT has recently been active in implementing a variety of “passenger protection” regulations, covering subjects such as advertising, passenger communications, denied boarding compensation and tarmac delay response.



•FAA:The FAA, through Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs), generally regulates all aspects of airline operations, including establishing personnel, maintenance and flight operation standards.  Domestic airlines are required to hold a valid air carrier operating certificate issued by the FAA.  Pursuant to these regulations we have established, and the FAA has approved, our operations specifications and a maintenance program for each type of aircraft we operate.  The maintenance program provides for the ongoing maintenance of such aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major overhauls.  From time to time the FAA issues airworthiness directives (ADs) that must be incorporated into our aircraft maintenance program and operations. All airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the FAA from time to time for alleged violations of FARs or ADs.  At this time, we are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate.



•TSA:Airlines serving the U.S. must operate a TSA-approved Aircraft Operator Standard Security Program (AOSSP), and comply with TSA Security Directives (SDs) and regulations.  Airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the TSA from time to time for alleged violations of the AOSSP, SDs or security regulations.  We are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate.  Under TSA authority, we are also required to collect a September 11 Security Fee of $2.50 per enplanement from passengers and remit that sum to the government to fund aviation security measures.  Carriers also pay the TSA a security infrastructure fee to cover passenger and property screening costs.  These security infrastructure fees amounted to$13 millioneach year in2013,2012and2011.  Starting July 1, 2014, the TSA security fee will increase to $5.60 per one-way trip.  In addition, starting October 1, 2014, the security infrastructure fees will no longer be in effect.



The Department of Justice and DOT have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters.  The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services.  Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act.  To the extent we continue to fly to foreign countries and pursue alliances with international carriers, we may be subject to certain regulations of foreign agencies and international treaties.













ENVIRONMENTAL AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY MATTERS



We are subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries.  U.S. federal laws that have a particular effect on us include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, and the Oil Pollution Control Act.  We are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, OSHA, and other federal agencies have been authorized to create and enforce regulations that have an impact on our operations.  In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under these federal statutes.  Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations.  We maintain our safety, health and environmental programs in order to meet or exceed these requirements.



We expect there will be legislation in the future to reduce carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions.  Alaska and Horizon have transitioned to more fuel-efficient aircraft fleets.



The Airport Noise and Capacity Act recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system.  Authorities in several cities have established aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews.  We believe we have sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions.



Although we do not currently anticipate that these regulatory matters, individually or collectively, will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, new regulations or compliance issues that we do not currently anticipate could have the potential to harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in future periods.





INSURANCE



We carry Airline Hull, Spares and Comprehensive Legal Liability Insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice to cover damage to aircraft, spare parts and spare engines, as well as bodily injury and property damage to passengers and third parties.  Since the September 11, 2001 attacks, this insurance program excludes coverage for War and Allied Perils, including hijacking, terrorism, malicious acts, strikes, riots, civil commotion and other identified perils.  So, like other airlines, the company has purchased war risk coverage for such events through the U.S. government.



We believe that our emphasis on safety and our state-of-the-art flight deck safety technology help to control the cost of aviation insurance.





WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION



Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on our website atwww.alaskaair.com,free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information contained on our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K.





