ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS

The following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our
business and prospects. These risks factors are in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this
report.

Intense competition as well as industry consolidations may erode our profit margins.

The distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare solutions is highly competitive.
We compete with two national wholesale distributors of pharmaceuticals, Cardinal and McKesson;
national generic distributors; regional and local distributors of pharmaceuticals; chain drugstores
that warehouse their own pharmaceuticals; manufacturers that distribute their products directly to
customers; specialty distributors; and packaging and healthcare technology companies (see
“Competition”). Competition continues to increase in specialty distribution and services, where
gross margins historically have been higher than in ABDC. Reflecting that increased competition,
recently, our two national competitors have announced or completed acquisitions to expand their
footprint in
the area of specialty distribution and services. If we were forced by competition to reduce
our prices or offer more favorable payment or other terms, our results of operations or liquidity
could be adversely affected. In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry has been
subject to increasing consolidation. If this trend continues among our customers and suppliers, it
could give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to greater pressure
to reduce prices for our products and services.





Our results of operations continue to be subject to the risks and uncertainties of inflation
in branded pharmaceutical prices and deflation in generic pharmaceutical prices.

Certain distribution service agreements that we have entered into with branded pharmaceutical
manufacturers continue to have an inflation-based compensation component to them. Arrangements
with a small number of branded manufacturers continue to be solely inflation-based. As a result,
approximately 10% of our gross profit from brand-name manufacturers continues to be subject to
fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of price appreciation. If the frequency or rate of
branded pharmaceutical price inflation slows, our results of operations could be adversely
affected. In addition, we distribute generic pharmaceuticals, which are subject to price
deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, our
results of operations could be adversely affected.

Declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition.

Our operations and performance depend on economic conditions in the United States and other
countries where we do business. Deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely
affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products
purchased by consumers and, therefore, reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively
affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. Interest rate fluctuations,
financial market volatility or credit market disruptions may also negatively affect our customers’
ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms. Reduced purchases by our
customers or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a
decrease in our cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar events affecting our customers
may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Declining
economic conditions may also increase our costs. If the economic conditions in the United States
or in the regions outside the United States where we do business do not improve or deteriorate, our
results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.

Our stock price and our ability to access credit markets may be adversely affected by financial
market volatility and disruption.

The capital and credit markets experienced significant volatility and disruption, particularly
in the latter half of 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009. In some cases, the markets produced
downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to
those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the markets return to the levels of disruption
and volatility experienced in the latter half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, there can be
no assurance that we will not experience downward movement in our stock price without regard to our
financial condition or results of operations or an adverse effect, which may be material, on our
ability to access credit generally, and on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results
of operations.

Our receivables securitization facility expires in April 2011. While we did not have any
borrowings outstanding under this facility as of September 30, 2010, we have historically utilized
amounts available to us under this facility, from time to time, to meet our business needs.
Additionally, our multi-currency revolving credit facility expires in November 2011. In fiscal
2011, we will seek to renew these facilities at available market rates, which may be higher than
the rates currently available to us. While we believe we will be able to renew these facilities,
there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so.

Our revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the loss of a significant customer.

Our largest customer, Medco Health Solutions, Inc., accounted for 18% of our revenue in fiscal
2010. Our top ten customers represented approximately 42% of fiscal 2010 revenue. We also have
contracts with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a purchasing
agent on behalf of its members, who are hospitals, pharmacies or other healthcare providers.
Approximately 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2010 was derived from our three largest GPO
relationships. We may lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if any existing contract
with such customer or GPO expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is
terminated by the customer or GPO prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is
permitted by the contract. A number of our contracts with significant customers or GPOs are
typically subject to expiration each year and we may lose any of these customers or GPO
relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or replace the contracts. The loss of
any significant customer or GPO relationship could adversely affect our revenue and results of
operations.





Our revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit
failure of a significant customer.

Most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit.
Credit is made available to customers based on our assessment and analysis of creditworthiness.
Although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to
protect our credit exposure, we generally are either subordinated to the position of the primary
lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. Volatility of the capital and credit markets,
general economic conditions, and regulatory changes, including changes in reimbursement, may
adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our customers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or
other credit failure of any customer that has a substantial amount owed to us could have a material
adverse affect on our operating revenue and results of operations. At September 30, 2010, the
largest trade receivable balance due from a single customer represented approximately 8% of
accounts receivable, net.

Our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a
significant supplier.

Our
relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers, including generic
pharmaceutical manufacturers, give rise to substantial amounts that are due
to us from the suppliers, including amounts owed to us for returned goods or defective goods,
chargebacks, and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. Volatility of the
capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory changes may adversely
affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our suppliers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other
credit failure of any supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial account payable
balance due to us could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations.

Increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel may increase our
costs and reduce our profitability.

The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the federal and state level. Consequently, we
are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and
security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of
pharmacy and comparable agencies.

In addition, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards and
identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply
chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include track-and-trace or authentication
technologies, such as RFID devices and other technologies. The 2007 Act requires the FDA to
develop a standardized numerical identifier (SNI) by April 1, 2010. In March 2010, FDA issued
guidance regarding the development of SNIs for prescription drug packages. In this guidance, FDA
identifies package-level SNIs, as an initial step in FDA’s development and implementation of
additional measures to secure the drug supply chain. The increased costs of complying with these
pedigree and other supply chain custody requirements could increase our costs or otherwise
significantly affect our results of operations.





The suspension or revocation by the DEA of any of the registrations that must be in effect for our
distribution facilities to purchase, store and distribute controlled substances or the refusal by
DEA to issue a registration to any such facility that requires such registration may adversely
affect our reputation, our business and our results of operations.

The DEA, FDA and various state regulatory authorities regulate the distribution of
pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. We are required to hold valid DEA and state-level
licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the Controlled Substance
Act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding and
distribution of controlled substances. The DEA, FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad
enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers’ licenses to
distribute pharmaceutical products (including controlled substances), seize or recall products and
impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and
regulations.

In 2007, our Orlando, Florida distribution center’s license to distribute controlled
substances and listed chemicals was suspended and later reinstated under an agreement with the DEA,
when we implemented an enhanced and more sophisticated order-monitoring program in all of our ABDC
distribution centers. In addition, in 2008, one of our subsidiaries, Bellco Drug Corp., received a
new DEA registration (following the suspension of its license and entry into a consent judgment
with the DEA prior to our acquisition of the business). While we expect to continue to comply with
all of the DEA’s requirements, there can be no assurance that the DEA will not require further
controls against the diversion of controlled substances in the future or will not take similar
action against any other of our distribution centers in the future.

Legal, regulatory and legislative changes reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or
medical treatments or services may adversely affect our business and results of operations.

Both our business and the businesses of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and
regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services
or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined.





First DataBank, Inc. and Medi-Span publish drug databases that contain drug information and
pricing data. The pricing data includes average wholesale price, or AWP, which is a pricing
benchmark widely used to calculate a portion of the Medicaid and Medicare Part D reimbursements
payable to pharmacy providers. AWP is also used to establish the pricing of pharmaceuticals to
certain of our pharmaceutical distribution customers in Puerto Rico. On September 3, 2009, the
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit upheld settlements in class action litigation concerning the
calculations of AWP pricing data. Under the settlements, First DataBank, Inc. and Medi-Span
reduced to 20% the markup on about 1,400 drugs included in the litigation. The companies also
reduced to 20% the markup on all drugs with a mark-up higher than 20% and are expected to stop
publishing AWP in 2011. We continue to evaluate the impact that these actions could have on the
business of our customers and our business. There can be no assurances that these settlements and
related actions will not have an adverse impact on the business of our customers and/or our
business.

The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007, among other things, requires CMS to
adjust Medicare Part B drug average sales price (“ASP”) calculations to use volume-weighed ASPs
based on actual sales volume. This law, which became effective April 1, 2008, has reduced and
could continue to reduce Medicare reimbursement rates for some Part B drugs, which may indirectly
impact the prices we can charge our customers for pharmaceuticals and result in reductions in our
profitability. The reduction in reimbursement rates for Part B drugs particularly affects our ABSG
customers, some of whom have moved from private practice to hospital settings. ABSG’s business may
be adversely affected in the future by these and other changes in Medicare reimbursement rates for
certain pharmaceuticals, including oncology drugs administered by physicians. Since ABSG provides
a number of services to or through physicians, this could result in slower growth or lower revenues
for ABSG.





The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”) significantly
expanded Medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drugs through the new Medicare Part D
program. Beginning in 2006, Medicare beneficiaries became eligible to enroll in outpatient
prescription drug plans that are offered by private entities and became eligible for varying levels
of coverage for outpatient prescription drugs. The Part D Plan program has increased the use of
pharmaceuticals in the supply channel, which has a positive impact on our revenues and
profitability. MIPPA and the Affordable Care Act both made additional
changes to the Part D program. Notably, the Affordable Care Act provides additional
assistance to beneficiaries who reach the Part D “coverage gap” (including a manufacturer discount
program), mandates additional medication therapy management services, reduces Part D subsidies for
certain high-income beneficiaries, and mandates new dispensing techniques for dispensing drugs to
long-term care residents to reduce prescription drug waste beginning in 2012. CMS continues to
issue regulations and other guidance to implement these statutory changes and further refine
Medicare Part D program rules. There can be no assurances that recent and future changes to the
Part D program will not have an adverse impact on our business.

The federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce Medicare
and/or Medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. At this time,
we can provide no assurances that such changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our
business.

Changes to the United States healthcare environment may negatively impact our business and our
profitability.

Our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare
financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the United States. In recent years, the
healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government
spending. These changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain Medicare
funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers
and customers; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the
healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential
changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding at the state or federal level for certain
healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug
pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to
reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay
for our products and services. We expect continued government and private payor pressure to reduce
pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers’ pricing or distribution policies
could also significantly reduce our profitability.

If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could
suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.

The enactment of provincial legislation or regulations in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product
pricing and service fees may adversely affect our pharmaceutical distribution business in Canada,
including the profitability of that business.





Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by qui tam litigation.

A qui tam matter is pending in the United States District Court for the District of
Massachusetts (the “Federal District Court Action”) naming Amgen Inc. as well as two business units
of AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group, ASD Specialty Healthcare, Inc. (“ASD”), and International
Nephrology Network (“INN”), as defendants, as described in Note 12 (Legal Matters and
Contingencies) of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

Under the federal civil False Claims Act and the applicable state civil False Claims Acts, the
filing of the original qui tam complaint by the former Amgen employee triggered obligations of
federal and certain state government authorities to investigate the allegations and to determine
whether or not to intervene in the action. In connection with this investigative process, the
Company has received subpoenas for records issued by the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Eastern District of New York (the “Department of Justice”). The allegations of the plaintiffs in
the Federal District Court Action are within the scope of the Department of Justice’s subpoenas.
The Company has been cooperating with the Department of Justice in the inquiry and is producing
records in response to the subpoenas.

The Company has learned that there are both prior and subsequent filings in another federal
district, including a complaint filed by a former employee of the
Company, that are under seal and
that involve allegations similar to those in the Federal District Court Action against the same
and/or additional subsidiaries or businesses of the Company that are defendants in the Federal
District Court Action, including the Company’s group purchasing organization for oncologists and
the Company’s oncology distribution business. The Department of Justice’s investigation of the
allegations being pursued in the Federal District Court Action appears to include investigation of
the allegations contained in some or all of these other filings.

Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we are found liable for
the violations alleged in the Federal District Court Action and/or if the Department of Justice
should elect to intervene in the pending case and/or if there should be any other qui tam cases
that arise against us or are pending but yet unsealed, including cases against the same and/or
additional subsidiaries or businesses of the Company that are defendants in the Federal District
Court action.

Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake
acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to
integrate.

We expect to continue to implement our growth strategy, in part, by acquiring companies. At
any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with
regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. We make public
disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable
securities laws and regulations.

Acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties. If we complete one or more
acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a
number of factors, including: the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have
projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities; the fair value of
assets acquired and liabilities assumed; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and
operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities
that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the difficulties in the integration
of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the
failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions.





Our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by foreign
operations.

We have pharmaceutical distribution operations based in Canada and provide contract packaging
and clinical trials materials services in the United Kingdom. We may consider additional foreign
acquisitions in the future. Our existing foreign operations and any operations we may acquire in
the future carry risks in addition to the risks of acquisition, as described above. At any
particular time, foreign operations may encounter risks and uncertainties regarding the
governmental, political, economic, business and competitive environment within the countries in
which those operations are based. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency
fluctuations that could impact our results of operations and financial condition based on the
movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar.

Risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our
business and results of operations.

Our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze,
and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from
numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account
for other product and service transactions with customers; to manage the accurate billing and
collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. Our business and
results of operations may be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted or damaged by
unforeseen events or if they fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of
third parties. A third party service provider (IBM) is responsible for managing a significant
portion of ABDC’s information systems. Our business and results of operations may be adversely
affected if the third party service provider does not perform satisfactorily.

Certain of our businesses continue to make substantial investments in information systems. To
the extent the implementation of these systems fail, our business and results of operations may be
adversely affected.

Risks generally associated with implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system may
adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting.

We have begun to implement an ERP system, which, when completed, will handle the business and
financial processes within ABDC’s operations and our corporate and administrative functions, such
as: (i) facilitating the purchase and distribution of inventory items from our distribution
centers; (ii) receiving, processing, and shipping orders on a timely basis, (iii) managing the
accuracy of billings and collections for our customers; (iv) processing payments to our suppliers;
and (v) generating financial transactions and information. ERP implementations are complex and
time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation
activities that can continue for several years. ERP implementations also require transformation of
business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Our business and
results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems and/or cost
overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system, and the associated process
changes, do not give rise to the benefits that we expect.

Additionally, if we do not effectively implement the ERP system as planned or if the system
does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect our financial reporting systems, our
ability to produce financial reports, and/or the effectiveness of our internal controls over
financial reporting.

Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results
of operations and financial condition.

We are a large corporation with operations in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and the
United Kingdom. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal,
state and local governments and of certain foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various
legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our
tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be
adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as
well as foreign, tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying
interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by
relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.







