
10-K405
FORM 10-K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

         Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
/X/      Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995

                                       OR

         Transaction Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from____________to____________.

                           Commission File No. 1-4018

                                DOVER CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

      Delaware                                           53-0257888
(State of Incorporation)                    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

  280 Park Avenue, New York, NY                             10017
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(212) 922-1640

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of each exchange
         Title of each class                            on which registered
         -------------------                            -------------------

Common Stock, par value $1.                             New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

           Title of class
           --------------

6.45% Notes due November 15, 2005





Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past ninety days.   Yes  X   No______

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. X

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of March 4, 1996 was $4,841,421,685. Registrant's price as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Transactions for March 4, 1996
was $45.625 per share.

The number of outstanding shares of the Registrant's common stock as of March 4,
1996 was 113,786,101.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Parts I, II, and IV -      Certain portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders
                           for Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1995 (the "1995
                           Annual Report").

Parts II, and III   -      Certain portions of the Proxy Statement for Annual
                           Meeting to be held on April 30, 1996 (the "1996 Proxy
                           Statement").


                                     PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS

General

           Dover Corporation ("Dover" or the "Company"), originally incorporated
in 1947 in the State of Delaware, is a diversified industrial manufacturing
corporation encompassing over 50 different operating companies which manufacture
a broad range of specialized industrial products and sophisticated manufacturing
equipment.

           The Company's businesses are divided into five business segments.
Dover Resources manufactures products primarily for the automotive, fluid
handling, petroleum and chemical industries. Dover Industries makes products for
use in the waste handling, bulk transport, automotive service, commercial food
service and machine tool industries. Dover Technologies builds primarily
sophisticated automated assembly equipment for the electronics industry,
industrial printers for coding and marking and, to a lesser degree, specialized
electronic components. Dover Diversified builds sophisticated assembly and
production machines, heat transfer equipment and specialized compressors, as
well as sophisticated products and control systems for use in the defense,
aerospace and commercial building industries. Dover Elevator manufactures,
installs and services elevators primarily in North America.

           The Company emphasizes growth and strong internal cash flow. It has a
long-standing and successful acquisition program pursuant to which, from January
1, 1991 through December 31, 1995, the Company made 47 acquisitions at a total
acquisition cost of $962 million. For more detail regarding acquisitions over
the past three years, see page 3 of the 1995 Annual Report as well as Note 2 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 27-28 of the 1995 Annual Report,
which are hereby incorporated by reference. These acquisitions have had a
substantial impact on the Company's increase in sales and earnings since 1991.
The Company's acquisition program traditionally focused on acquiring new or
stand-alone businesses. However, since 1993, increased emphasis has been placed
on acquiring businesses which can be added on to existing operations. The
Company aims to be in businesses marked by growth, innovation and higher than
average profit margins. It seeks to have each of its businesses be a leader in
its market as measured by market share, innovation, profitability and return on
assets.

           The Company practices a highly decentralized management style. The
presidents of operating companies are very autonomous and have a high level of
independent responsibility for their businesses and their performance. This is
in keeping with the Company's operating philosophy that small independent
operations are better able to serve customers by focusing closely on their
products and reacting quickly to customer needs. The Company's executive
management becomes involved



only to guide and manage capital, assist in major acquisitions, evaluate,
motivate and, if necessary, replace operating management, and provide selected
other services.

           Dover Resources manufactures components and equipment primarily for
the automotive, fluid handling, petroleum and chemical industries. Its largest
businesses are De-Sta-Co (compressor valves and workholding devices), OPW
Fueling Components (gasoline nozzles and related service station equipment), and
Blackmer (rotary vein and progressive cavity pumps and gas compressors). At the
beginning of 1994, Dover Resources acquired Midland Manufacturing, a market
leader in safety valves and gauging equipment for rail tank cars. Other Dover
Resources companies produce liquid monitoring, filtration and control systems,
oil and gas production equipment, and other valve, instrumentation and control
systems and products.

           Dover Industries manufactures a diverse mix of equipment and
components for use in the waste handling, bulk transport, automotive service,
commercial food service, machine tool and other industries. The largest
operations are Heil, acquired in 1993 (trailerized tanks and refuse collecting
vehicles), Tipper Tie (clip closures for food packaging), Marathon, acquired at
the end of 1990 (solid waste compaction, transporting and recycling equipment),
Rotary Lift (automotive lifts), and Groen (food service equipment). In 1994,
Tipper Tie acquired Technopack of Hamburg, Germany, a former licensee, and
combined it with Tipper Tie's European operations. Other Dover Industries
operations produce auto collision measuring and repair systems, commercial
refrigeration, welding torches, plasma cutting products and screw machines.

           Dover Technologies sells assembly equipment, screen printers, and
soldering machines for the printed circuit board industry, as well as components
for communications (including wireless) and military applications. Its primary
competitors are Japanese producers, including Fuji Machine, Panasonic and TDK.
The most significant business in this segment is Universal Instruments which, in
1995, accounted for approximately 65% of the sales and a much higher percentage
of the operating profit of Dover Technologies. Universal Instruments' sales and
operating profit for 1995 grew 36% and 81%, respectively, over 1994. Universal
Instruments is the world's largest producer of thru-hole printed circuit board
assembly equipment, as well as a significant manufacturer of surface mount
printed circuit board assembly equipment. At the end of the third quarter of
1995, Dover Technologies acquired Imaje, S.A., for approximately $212 million.
Based in Valence, France, Imaje is one of the world's three largest
manufacturers of industrial continuous ink jet printers and specialized inks
used for coding and marking a wide variety of products and consumables. It also
produces laser and contact marking printers.

           Dover Diversified manufactures equipment and components for
industrial, commercial, and defense applications. The largest operations are
Belvac, acquired in 1993 (can-making machinery), Tranter (process industry heat
exchangers), A-C Compressor, acquired in 1992 (process industry compressors),
and Hill Phoenix, acquired in 1993-94 (refrigeration cases and systems for
supermarkets). In the second quarter of 1995, Dover Diversified acquired Mark
Andy, a leading manufacturer of



narrow web flexographic printing presses. Other Dover Diversified businesses
produce such products as fluid film and self-lubricating bearings, metal and
fabric expansion joints, submarine and aircraft hydraulic controls, remote
manipulators and industrial cleaning equipment.

           Dover Elevator is the nation's largest manufacturer and installer,
and one of the largest servicers, of elevators for low- and mid-rise buildings.
Dover Elevator also participates in the high-rise market for new equipment and
service. Its primary competitors are Otis, Westinghouse/Schindler and
Montgomery/Kone. Dover Elevator also sells and services elevators in foreign
markets, principally the United Kingdom and Canada. Somewhat less than half of
Dover Elevator's sales and all of its profits are generated by the service
business. During 1994 and 1995, Dover Elevator took charges against earnings of
$12 and $32 million, respectively, in connection with the reorganization of
Dover Elevator Company and General Elevator Company in 1994, and a restructuring
of North American operations in 1995, including consolidation of manufacturing
operations and a 12% reduction in the salaried workforce.

                  Dover sells its products and services both directly and
through various distributors, sales and commission agents and manufacturers
representatives, in all cases consistent generally with the custom of the
industry and market being served. For more information on these segments and
their products, sales, markets served, earnings before tax and total assets for
the six years ended December 31, 1995, see pages 6 through 22 of the 1995 Annual
Report, which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Raw Materials

                  Dover's operating companies use a wide variety of raw
materials, primarily metals and semi-processed or finished components, which are
generally available from a number of sources. Temporary shortages may occur
occasionally, but have not resulted in business interruptions or major problems,
nor are any such problems anticipated. Through the first half of 1995, prices
for steel and aluminum, which are used by a large number of Dover companies,
increased. Thereafter, prices for aluminum have generally declined about 10%
through the first quarter of 1996 and steel prices have remained stable. To date
these cost increases have not had a material impact on operating profits.

Research and Development

                  Dover's operating companies are encouraged to develop new
products as well as upgrade and improve existing products to satisfy customer
needs, expand sales opportunities, improve product reliability and reduce
production costs. During 1995, approximately $94 million was spent on research
and development, compared with $97 million and $60 million in 1994 and 1993,
respectively.



                  Dover holds or is licensed to use a substantial number of U.S.
patents covering a number of its product lines, and to a far lesser degree
patents in certain foreign countries where it conducts business. Dover licenses
some of its patents to other companies for which it collects royalties which are
not significant. These patents have been obtained over a number of years and
expire at various times. Although patents in the aggregate are important to
Dover, the loss or expiration of any one patent or group of patents would not
materially affect Dover or any of its segments. Where patents have expired,
Dover believes that its commitment to leadership in continuous engineering
improvements, manufacturing techniques, and other sales, service and marketing
efforts are significant to maintaining its general market leadership position.

Trademarks and Tradenames

                  Many of the Company's products are sold under various
registered and unregistered trademarks and tradenames owned or licensed by the
Company. Among the most significant are: A-C Compressor, Annubar, Blackmer,
De-Sta-Co., Davenport, DEK, Dover, Duncan, Groen, Heil, Marathon, Norris, OPW,
Rotary Lift, Sargent ,SWEP, Tipper Tie, Tranter and Universal.

Seasonality

                  Dover's operations are generally not seasonal, although their
performance tends to be stronger in the second and fourth quarters of the year.

Customers

                  Dover's businesses serve thousands of customers, no one of
which accounted for more than 10% of sales in 1995. Within each of the five
segments, no customer accounted for more than 10% of segment sales in 1995.

Backlog

                  Backlog generally is not considered a significant factor in
Dover's businesses, as most products have relatively short delivery periods. It
is more revelant to those businesses which produce larger and more sophisticated
machines, or have long-term government contracts, primarily A-C Compressor,
Belvac, Dover Elevator International, Heil Trailer, Mark Andy, Sargent Controls
and Universal.

                  Total Company backlog as of December 31, 1995 and 1994 was
$997 million and $927 million, respectively.

Competition

                  Dover's competitive environment is complex because of the wide
diversity of products manufactured and markets served. In general, Dover
companies are



market leaders which compete with only a few companies. In addition, since most
of Dover's manufacturing operations are in the United States, Dover usually is a
more significant competitor domestically than in foreign markets

                  In the Elevator segment, Dover competes for the manufacture
and installation of elevators with a few generally large multinational
competitors and maintains a strong domestic position. For service work, there
are numerous local, regional and national competitors.

                  In the Technologies segment, Dover competes globally against a
few very large companies, primarily based in Japan or Europe.

                  Within the other three segments, competition is primarily
domestic, although an increasing number see more international competitors and
several serve markets which are predominantly international, particularly A-C
Compressor, Alberta Oil Tool, Belvac, Civacon, CRL, De-Sta-Co, Dieterich
Standard, Duncan, Norris, OPW Fueling Components, Ronningen-Petter, Tipper
Tie/Technopak, Tranter and Wittemann.

International

                  For foreign sales and assets, see Note 15 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on page 33 of the 1995 Annual Report, which is incorporated
herein by reference. Export sales of domestic operations were $773 million in
1995, $560 million in 1994 and $413 million in 1993.

                  Although international operations are subject to certain
risks, such as price and exchange rate fluctuations and foreign governmental
restrictions, Dover intends to increase its expansion into foreign markets,
particularly with respect to its elevator business, as domestic markets mature.

                  The countries where most of Dover's foreign subsidiaries and
affiliates are based are Canada, France, Great Britain, Germany and Sweden.

Environmental Matters

                  Dover believes its operations generally are in substantial
compliance with applicable regulations. In some instances, particular plants and
businesses have been the subject of administrative and legal proceedings with
governmental agencies relating to the discharge or potential discharge of
substances. Where necessary, these matters have been addressed with specific
consent orders to achieve compliance. Dover believes that continued compliance
will not have any material impact on the Company's financial position going
forward and will not require significant capital expenditures.



Employees

                  The Company had approximately 25,300 employees as of December
31, 1995.



Item 2.  PROPERTIES

The number, type, location and size of the Company's properties are shown on the
following charts, by segment.







                  The facilities are generally well maintained and suitable for
the operations conducted. While the productive capacity of its plants is
generally adequate for current needs, several businesses, particularly Heil,
Hill Phoenix and Universal, have completed or are committed to significant plant
expansion to meet current and future demand.

Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

                  Dover is party to a number of legal proceedings arising out of
the normal course of its businesses. In general, most claims arise in connection
with activities of its Elevator segment operations and certain of its other
businesses which make products used by the public. For several years, Dover has
also been involved with the Internal Revenue Service regarding tax assessments
for the eight years ended December 31, 1989, which matters were settled in early
1995. In addition, matters 



have arisen under various environmental laws, as well as under local regulatory
compliance agencies. For a further description of such matters, see Note 12 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 32-33 of the 1995 Annual Report,
which is incorporated herein by reference.

                  Based on insurance availability, established reserves and
periodic reviews of those matters, management is of the opinion that the
ultimate resolution of current pending claims and known contingencies should not
have a material adverse effect on Dover's financial position taken as a whole.

Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

                Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

                All officers are elected annually at the first meeting of the
Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders and are subject
to removal at any time by the Board of Directors. The executive officers of
Dover as of March 22, 1996, and their positions with the Company (and, where
relevant, prior business experience) for the past five years are as follows:







                                     PART II

Item 5.         MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK
                AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

                The principal market in which the Company's Common Stock is
traded is the New York Stock Exchange. Information on the high and low sales
prices of such stock, and the frequency and the amount of dividends paid during
the last two years, is set forth on Page 35 of the 1995 Annual Report and
incorporated herein by reference. On September 15, 1995, Registrant effected a 2
for 1 stock split in the form of a stock dividend payable to holders of record
on August 31, 1995.

                The number of holders of record of the Registrant's Common Stock
as of March 4, 1996 is approximately 3,000.

Item 6.         SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



                The information for the years 1985 through 1995 is set forth in
the 1995 Annual Report on pages 38 and 39 and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 7.         MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

                The information set forth in the 1995 Annual Report on pages 36
and 37 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                The information set forth in the 1995 Annual Report on pages 22
through 35 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.         CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
                ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

                For information regarding Registrant's change in independent
accountants, see "Miscellaneous Relationship with Independent Accountants" in
the 1996 Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herin by reference.

                                    PART III

Item 10.        DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

                The information with respect to the directors of the Company
required to be included pursuant to this Item 10 is included under the caption
"1. Election of Directors" in the 1996 Proxy Statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") pursuant to Rule 14a-6
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is incorporated in
this Item 10 by reference. The information with respect to the executive
officers of the Company required to be included pursuant to this Item 10 is
included under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated in this Item 10 by
reference.

Item 11.        EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

                The information with respect to executive compensation required
to be included pursuant to this Item 11 is included under the caption "Executive
Compensation" in the 1996 Proxy Statement and is incorporated in this Item 11 by
reference.

Item 12.        SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
                MANAGEMENT



                MANAGEMENT

                The information regarding security ownership of certain
beneficial owners and management that is required to be included pursuant to
this Item 12 is included under the captions "General" and "Security Ownership"
in the 1996 Proxy Statement and is incorporated in this Item 12 by reference.

Item 13.        CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

                The information with respect to any reportable transaction,
business relationship or indebtedness between the Company and the beneficial
owners of more than 5% of the Common Stock, the directors or nominees for
director of the Company, the executive officers of the Company or the members of
the immediate families of such individuals that is required to be included
pursuant to this Item 13 is included under the caption "1. Election of
Directors-Directors' Compensation" in the 1996 Proxy Statement and is
incorporated in this Item 13 by reference.











                                     PART IV

Item 14.        EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES,
                AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

        (a) (1)      Financial Statements

             The following consolidated financial statements of Dover
             Corporation and its subsidiaries are set forth in the 1995
             Annual Report, which financial statements are incorporated
             herein by reference:

            (A)      Independent Accountants' Report.

            (B)      Consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 1995,
                     1994 and 1993.

            (C)      Consolidated statements of earnings for the years ended
                     December 31, 1995 1994 and 1993.

            (D)      Consolidated statements of retained earnings for the
                     years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993.

            (E)      Consolidated statements of cash flows for the years
                     ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993.

            (F)      Notes to consolidated financial statements.

            (2)      Financial Statement Schedule

            The following financial statement schedule is attached to Part
            IV of this Annual Report report on form 10-K:

              Independent Accountants' Report on Schedules and Consent.

                         II    --   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

            All other schedules are not required and have been omitted.

            (3)      See (c) below.

        (b) A Form 8-K dated September 29, 1995 was filed on October 16, and
subsequently amended on Form 8-K/A No.1 dated October 25, 1995 regarding the
Company's acquisition of Image, S.A.



        (c)  Exhibits:

             (3)  (a) Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amendments 
                      thereto.

                  (b) By-laws, as amended.

             (4) The Company agrees to furnish to the Commission, upon
             request, copies of any instruments with respect to long-term debt
             which does not exceed 10 percent of the total consolidated assets
             of the Company.

             (10) (a) 1984 Incentive Stock Option and Cash Performance 
                      Program.*

                  (b) Employee Savings and Investment Plan.*

                  (c) 1995 Incentive Stock Option and Cash Performance 
                      Program.*

                  (d) 1996 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Compensation Plan.

              (13)    Incorporated portions of Dover's Annual Report to
                      Stockholders for its fiscal year ended December 31,
                      1995.

              (21)    Subsidiaries of Dover.

              (23)    Independent Accountants' Consents.

                      (a) Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P..

                      (b) KPMG Peat Marwick LLP.

              (24)    Form of Power of Attorney.

              (27)    Financial Data Schedules (in Edgar filing only).

*  Executive compensation plan or arrangement.

        (d) Not applicable.


                                   SIGNATURES

                Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                     DOVER CORPORATION

                                           By:/s/Thomas L. Reece
                                              -------------------------
                                              Thomas L. Reece
                                              President and Chief Executive
                                              Officer

                                           Date:  March 22, 1996

                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.















/s/David H. Benson
- -----------------------
David H. Benson                     Director*           March 22, 1996

/s/Magalen O. Bryant
- -----------------------
Magalen O. Bryant                   Director*           March 22, 1996

/s/Jean-Pierre M. Ergas
- -----------------------
Jean-Pierre M. Ergas                Director*           March 22, 1996

/s/Roderick J. Fleming
- -----------------------
Roderick J. Fleming                 Director*           March 22, 1996

/s/John F. Fort
- -----------------------
John F. Fort                        Director*           March 22, 1996

/s/James L. Koley
- -----------------------
James L. Koley                      Director*           March 22, 1996

/s/Anthony J. Ormsby
- -----------------------
Anthony J. Ormsby                   Director*           March 22, 1996

/s/Jerry W. Yochum
- -----------------------
Jerry W. Yochum                     Director*           March 22, 1996

*  By: /s/Robert G, Kuhbach
       -----------------------
       Robert G. Kuhbach
       Attorney-in-Fact


                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                       DOVER CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                    Years Ended December 31, 1995, 1994, 1993



Notes:

(1)    Represents uncollectible accounts written off and reduction of prior
       years' over-provision less recoveries of accounts previously written off,
       net of $ 3,260, $827 and $705 related to acquisitions and divestitures in
       1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.



                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Dover Corporation:

Our report on our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Dover
Corporation has been incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K from the 1995
annual report to stockholders of Dover Corporation and appears on page 34
therein. In connection with our audit of such financial statements we have also
audited the related financial statement schedule as listed in the index under
Item 14 (a) on page 14 of this Form 10-K.

In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.

                                                        Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

New York, New York
February 20, 1996



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Dover Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Dover
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, retained earnings and cash flows for the
years then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility
of the company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Dover Corporation
and subsidiaries at December 31, 1994 and 1993 and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole. The supplementary information included in
Schedule II for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 is presented for
purposes of additional analysis and is not a required part of the consolidated
financial statements. Such information has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the consolidated financial statements and,
in our opinion, based on our audits, is fairly stated in all material respects
in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.

                                                           KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

345 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10154
February 22, 1995












                                                   EXHIBIT INDEX

(3)      (a)      Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amendments thereto,
                  filed as Exhibit 3(a) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for year
                  ended December 31, 1989, is incorporated by reference.

         (b)      By-laws, as amended, filed as Exhibit 3(ii) to Quarterly
                  Report on Form 10-Q for period ended September 30, 1993, is
                  incorporated by reference.

(10)              (a) 1984 Incentive Stock Option and Cash Performance Program,
                  filed as Exhibit 10(a) to Annual Report on Form 10-K for year
                  ended December 31, 1984, is incorporated by reference.

                  (b) Employee Savings and Investment Plan, filed as Exhibit 99
                  to Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed under Securities
                  Act of 1933 (Reg. No.33-01419), is incorporated by reference.

                  (c) 1995 Incentive Stock Option and Cash Performance Program,
                  included as Exhibit A to the 1995 Proxy Statement relating to
                  the 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and dated March 15,
                  1995, is incorporated by reference.

                  (d) 1996 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Compensation Plan,
                  included as Exhibit A to the 1996 Proxy Statement, is
                  incorporated by reference.

(13)              Incorporated portions of Dover's Annual Report to Stockholders
                  for its fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.

(21)              Subsidiaries of Dover.

(23)              Independent Accountants' Consents. (See Independent
                  Accountants' Report on Schedules and Consents in Part IV
                  hereof)

                     (a) Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.

                     (b) KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

(24)              Form of Power of Attorney.

(27)              Financial Data Schedule (in Edgar filing only).




