Item 1.    Business



Overview



Hilton Worldwide is one of the largest and fastest growing hospitality companies in the world, with4,115hotels, resorts and timeshare properties comprising678,630rooms in91countries and territories. In the nearly 100 years since our founding, we have defined the hospitality industry and established a portfolio of 10 world-class brands. Our flagship full-service Hilton Hotels & Resorts brand is the most recognized hotel brand in the world. Our premier brand portfolio also includes our luxury hotel brands, Waldorf Astoria Hotels & Resorts and Conrad Hotels & Resorts, our full-service hotel brands, DoubleTree by Hilton and Embassy Suites Hotels, our focused-service hotel brands, Hilton Garden Inn, Hampton Inn, Homewood Suites by Hilton and Home2 Suites by Hilton and our timeshare brand, Hilton Grand Vacations. More than314,000team members proudly serve in our properties and corporate offices around the world, and we have approximately40 millionmembers in our award-winning customer loyalty program, Hilton HHonors.



We operate our business through three segments: (1) management and franchise; (2) ownership; and (3) timeshare. These complementary business segments enable us to capitalize on our strong brands, global market presence and significant operational scale. Through our management and franchise segment, which consists of3,918hotels with610,413rooms, we manage hotels, resorts and timeshare properties owned by third parties and we license our brands to franchisees. Our ownership










segment consists of155hotels with61,670rooms in which we have an ownership interest or lease. Through our timeshare segment, which consists of42properties comprising6,547units, we market and sell timeshare intervals, operate timeshare resorts and a timeshare membership club and provide consumer financing.



In addition to our current hotel portfolio, we are focused on the growth of our business through expanding our share of the global lodging industry through our development pipeline, which includes194,572rooms scheduled to be opened in the future, 99 percent of which are in our management and franchise segment. As ofDecember 31, 2013,101,810rooms, representing52percent of our development pipeline, were under construction. The expansion of our business is supported by strong lodging industry fundamentals in the current economic environment and long-term growth prospects based on increasing global travel and tourism.



Overall, we believe that our experience in the hotel industry and strong brands and commercial service offerings will continue to drive customer loyalty, including participation in our Hilton HHonors loyalty program, which has approximately40 millionmembers. Satisfied customers will continue to provide strong overall hotel performance for our hotel owners and us, and encourage further development of additional hotels under our brands and existing and new hotel owners, which further supports our growth and future financial performance. We believe that our existing portfolio and development pipeline, which will require minimal initial capital investment, put us in a strong position to further improve our business.










Our Brand Portfolio



The goal of each of our brands is to deliver exceptional customer experiences and superior operating performance.

December 31, 2013Brand(1)SegmentCountries/ TerritoriesHotelsRoomsPercentage of Total RoomsSelected Competitors(2)Luxury102410,5291.6%Ritz Carlton, Four Seasons, Peninsula, St. Regis, Mandarin OrientalLuxury17237,8771.2%Park Hyatt, Sofitel, Intercontinental, JW Marriott, FairmontUpper Upscale80554196,67029.0%Marriott, Sheraton, Hyatt, Radisson Blu, Renaissance, Westin, Sofitel, Swissotel, MövenpickUpscale3237193,05413.7%Sheraton, Marriott, Crowne Plaza, Wyndham, Radisson, Moevenpick, Hotel Nikko, Holiday Inn, RenaissanceUpper Upscale521551,3677.6%Renaissance, Sheraton, Hyatt, Residence Inn by MarriottUpscale1958179,87811.8%Courtyard by Marriott, Holiday Inn, Hyatt Place, Novotel, Aloft, Four Points by SheratonUpper Midscale151,937190,63528.1%Fairfield Inn by Marriott, Holiday Inn Express, Comfort Inn, Quality Inn, La Quinta Inns, Wyngate by WyndhamUpscale333336,7785.4%Residence Inn by Marriott, Hyatt House, Staybridge Suites, Candlewood SuitesUpper Midscale2272,9280.4%Candlewood Suites, AmericInn, Towne Place SuitesTimeshare3426,5471.0%Marriott Vacation Club, Starwood Vacation Ownership, Hyatt Residence, Wyndham Vacations Resorts

____________

(1)The table above excludes8unbranded hotels with2,367rooms, representing approximately0.2%of total rooms.

(2)The table excludes lesser known regional competitors.



Waldorf Astoria Hotels & Resorts: What began as an iconic hotel in New York City is today a portfolio of24luxury hotels and resorts. In landmark destinations around the world, Waldorf Astoria Hotels & Resorts reflect their locations, each providing the inspirational environments and personalized attention that are the source of unforgettable moments. Properties typically include elegant spa and wellness facilities, high-end restaurants, golf courses (at resort properties), 24-hour room service, fitness and business centers, meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event and concierge services.



Conrad Hotels & Resorts: Conrad is a global luxury brand of properties offering guests personalized experiences with sophisticated, locally inspired surroundings and an intuitive service model based on customization and control, as demonstrated by the Conrad Concierge mobile application that enables guest control of on-property amenities and services. Properties










typically include convenient and relaxing spa and wellness facilities, enticing restaurants, comprehensive room service, fitness and business centers, multi-purpose meeting facilities and special event and concierge services.



Hilton Hotels & Resorts: Hilton is our global flagship brand and ranks number one for global brand awareness in the hospitality industry, with554hotels and resorts in80countries and territories acrosssixcontinents. The brand primarily serves business and leisure upper upscale travelers and meeting groups. Hilton hotels are full-service hotels that typically include meeting, wedding and banquet facilities and special event services, restaurants and lounges, food and beverage services, swimming pools, gift shops, retail facilities and other services.



DoubleTree by Hilton: DoubleTree by Hilton is an upscale, full-service hotel designed to provide true comfort to today’s business and leisure travelers. DoubleTree is united by the brand’s CARE ("Creating a Rewarding Experience") culture and a warm chocolate chip cookie served at check-in. DoubleTree’s diverse portfolio includes historic icons, small contemporary hotels, resorts and large urban hotels.



Embassy Suites Hotels: Embassy Suites are our upper upscale, all-suite hotels that feature two-room guest suites with a separate living room and dining/work area, a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast and complimentary evening receptions every night. Embassy Suites’ bundled pricing ensures that guests receive value at a single price.



Hilton Garden Inn: Hilton Garden Inn is our award-winning, upscale hotel brand that strives to ensure today’s busy travelers have what they need to be productive on the road. From the Serta Perfect Sleeper bed, to complimentary Internet access, to a comfortable lobby pavilion, Hilton Garden Inn is the brand guests can count on to support them on their journeys.



Hampton Inn: Hampton Inn hotels are our moderately priced, upper midscale hotels with limited food and beverage facilities. The Hampton brand also includes Hampton Inn & Suites hotels, which offer both traditional hotel room accommodations and apartment style suites within one property. Across our over 1,900 Hampton locations around the world, guests receive free hot breakfast and free high-speed Internet access, all for a great price and all supported by the Hampton satisfaction guarantee.



Homewood Suites by Hilton: Homewood Suites by Hilton are our upscale, extended-stay hotels that feature residential style accommodations including business centers, swimming pools, convenience stores and limited meeting facilities. The brand provides the touches, familiarity and comforts of home so that extended-stay travelers can feel at home on the road.



Home2 Suites by Hilton: Home2 Suites by Hilton, our newest brand, are upper midscale hotels that provide a modern and savvy option to budget conscious extended-stay travelers. Offering innovative suites with contemporary design and cutting-edge technology, we strive to ensure that our guests are comfortable and productive, whether they are staying a few days or a few months. The hotel offers a complimentary continental breakfast, integrated laundry and exercise facility, recycling and sustainability initiatives and a pet-friendly policy.



Hilton Grand Vacations: Hilton Grand Vacations ("HGV") is our timeshare brand. Ownership of a deeded real estate interest with club membership points provides members with a lifetime of vacation advantages and the comfort and convenience of residential-style resort accommodations in select, renowned vacation destinations. Each club property provides a distinctive setting, while signature elements remain consistent, such as high-quality guest service, spacious units and extensive on-property amenities.



Our Customer Loyalty Program



Hilton HHonorsis our award-winning guest loyalty program that supports our portfolio of 10 brands and our entire system of hotels and timeshare properties. The program generates significant repeat business by rewarding guests with points for each stay at any of our more than 4,000 hotels worldwide, which are then redeemable for free hotel nights and other rewards. Members also can earn points with over 140 partners, including airlines, rail and car rental companies, credit card providers and others. The program provides targeted marketing, promotions and customized guest experiences to approximately40 millionmembers. Our Hilton HHonors members represented approximately 50 percent of our system-wide occupancy and contributed hotel-level revenues of over $12 billion during theyear ended December 31, 2013. Affiliation with our loyalty programs encourages members to allocate more of their travel spending to our hotels. The percentage of travel spending we capture from loyalty members increases as they move up the tiers of our program. The program is funded by contributions from eligible revenues generated by Hilton HHonors members and collected by us from hotels in our system. These funds are applied to reimburse hotels and partners for Hilton HHonors points redemptions and to pay for program administrative expenses and marketing initiatives that support the program.












Our Businesses



We operate our business across three segments: (1) management and franchise; (2) ownership; and (3) timeshare. For more information regarding our segments, see "Part II—Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" andNote 24: "Business Segments" in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.












As of December 31, 2013, our system included the following properties and rooms, by type, brand and region:





Owned / Leased(1)ManagedFranchisedTotal

HotelsRoomsHotelsRoomsHotelsRoomsHotelsRooms

Waldorf Astoria Hotels & Resorts

U.S.21,601125,691——147,292

Americas (excluding U.S.)——1248198421,232

Europe13703672——41,042

MEA——3703——3703

Asia Pacific——1260——1260

Conrad Hotels & Resorts

U.S.——41,335——41,335

Americas (excluding U.S.)————12941294

Europe11912741——3932

MEA16172641——31,258

Asia Pacific——113,4221636124,058

Hilton Hotels & Resorts

U.S.2321,0964224,93918154,083246100,118

Americas (excluding U.S.)31,836217,339185,4874214,662

Europe7419,0145615,798215,30915140,121

MEA62,2794313,41114105016,100

Asia Pacific83,9574918,73882,9746525,669

DoubleTree by Hilton

U.S.124,456288,20423758,32927770,989

Americas (excluding U.S.)——3637112,063142,700

Europe——113,474345,523458,997

MEA——4842343171,273

Asia Pacific——268,1302965289,095

Embassy Suites Hotels

U.S.184,5613910,32315134,74020849,624

Americas (excluding U.S.)——247351,27071,743

Hilton Garden Inn

U.S.2290563551469,60752170,532

Americas (excluding U.S.)——5685233,575284,260

Europe——152,620121,751274,371

MEA——1180——1180

Asia Pacific——4535——4535

Hampton Inn

U.S.1130506,2381,803173,6771,854180,045

Americas (excluding U.S.)——6729536,536597,265

Europe——4492192,761233,253

Asia Pacific————172172

Homewood Suites by Hilton

U.S.——384,34228431,26632235,608

Americas (excluding U.S.)——1102101,068111,170

Home2 Suites by Hilton

U.S.————262,831262,831

Americas (excluding U.S.)——197——197

Other31,27251,095——82,367

Lodging15561,670498143,7713,420466,6424,073672,083

Hilton Grand Vacations——426,547——426,547

Total15561,670540150,3183,420466,6424,115678,630

____________

(1)Includes hotels owned or leased by entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest.












Management and Franchise



Through our management and franchise segment we manage hotels and timeshare properties and license our brands to franchisees. This segment generates its revenue primarily from fees charged to hotel owners and to homeowners’ associations at timeshare properties. We grow our management and franchise business by attracting owners to become a part of our system and participate in our brands and commercial services to support their hotel properties. These contracts require little or no capital investment to initiate on our part, and provide significant return on investment for us as fees are earned.



Hotel and Timeshare Management



Our core management services consist of operating hotels under management agreements for the benefit of third parties, who either own or lease the hotels and the associated personal property. Terms of our management agreements vary, but our fees generally consist of a base management fee based on a percentage of each hotel’s gross revenue, and we also may earn an incentive fee based on gross operating profits, cash flow or a combination thereof. In general, the owner pays all operating and other expenses and reimburses our out-of-pocket expenses. In turn, our managerial discretion typically is subject to approval by the owner in certain major areas, including the approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. Additionally, the owners generally pay a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs.As of December 31, 2013, we managed498hotels with143,771rooms, excluding our owned and leased hotels.



The initial terms of our management agreements for full-service hotels typically are 20 years. In certain cases where we have entered into a franchise agreement as well as a management agreement, we classify these hotels as managed hotels in our portfolio. Extension options for our management agreements are negotiated and vary, but typically are more prevalent in full-service hotels. Typically these agreements contain one or two extension options that are either for 5 or 10 years and can be exercised at our or the other party’s option or by mutual agreement.



Some of our management agreements provide early termination rights to hotel owners upon certain events, including the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria. Performance test measures typically are based upon the hotel’s performance individually and/or in comparison to specified competitive hotels. We often have a cure right by paying an amount equal to the performance shortfall over a specified period, although in some cases our cure rights are limited.



In addition to the third-party owned hotels we manage, we provide management services for42timeshare properties owned by homeowners' associations and155owned, leased and joint venture hotels, from which we recognize management fee revenues.



Franchising



We franchise our brand names, trade and service marks and operating systems to hotel owners under franchise agreements. We do not directly participate in the day-to-day management or operation of franchised hotels. We conduct periodic inspections to ensure that brand standards are maintained and consult with franchisees concerning certain aspects of hotel operations. We approve the location for new construction of franchised hotels, as well as certain aspects of development. In some cases, we provide franchisees with product improvement plans that must be completed in accordance with brand standards to remain in our hotel system.As of December 31, 2013, there were3,420franchised hotels with466,642rooms.



Each franchisee pays us a franchise application fee. Franchisees also pay a royalty fee, generally based on a percentage of the hotel’s total gross room revenue (and a percentage of food and beverage revenue in some brands), as well as a monthly program fee based on a percentage of the total gross room revenue that covers the costs of advertising and marketing programs; internet, technology and reservation systems expenses; and quality assurance program costs. Franchisees also are responsible for various other fees and charges, including payments for participation in our Hilton HHonors reward program, training, consultation and procurement of certain goods and services.



Our franchise agreements typically have initial terms of approximately 20 years for new construction and approximately 10 to 20 years for properties that are converted from other brands. At the expiration of the initial term, we may relicense the hotel to the franchisee, at our or the hotel owner’s option or by mutual agreement, for an additional term ranging from 10 to 15 years. We have the right to terminate a franchise agreement upon specified events of default, including nonpayment of fees or noncompliance with brand standards. If a franchise agreement is terminated by us because of a franchisee’s default, the franchisee is contractually required to pay us liquidated damages.












Ownership



We are among the largest hotel owners in the world based upon the number of rooms at our owned, leased and joint venture hotels. Our diverse global portfolio of owned and leased properties includes a number of leading hotels in major gateway cities such as New York City, London, San Francisco, Chicago, São Paolo, Sydney and Tokyo. The portfolio includes iconic hotels with significant underlying real estate value, including The Waldorf Astoria New York, the Hilton Hawaiian Village and the London Hilton on Park Lane. Real estate investment was a critical component of the growth of our business in our early years. Our real estate holdings grew over time through new construction, purchases or leases of hotels, investments in joint ventures and the acquisition of other hotel companies. In recent years, we have expanded our hotel system less through real estate investment and more by increasing the number of management and franchise agreements we have with third-party hotel owners.



We have focused on maximizing the cost efficiency and profitability of the portfolio by, among other things, implementing new labor management practices and systems and reducing fixed costs. Through our disciplined approach to asset management, we have developed and executed on strategic plans for each of our hotels to enhance the market position of each property, and at many of our hotels we have renovated guest rooms and public spaces and added or enhanced meeting and retail space to improve profitability. At certain of our hotels, we are evaluating options for the adaptive reuse of all or a portion of the property to residential, retail or timeshare in order to deploy our real estate to its highest and best use.



Timeshare



Our timeshare segment generates revenue from three primary sources:



•Timeshare Sales—We market and sell timeshare interests owned by Hilton and third parties. We also source timeshare intervals through sales and marketing agreements with third-party developers. This allows us to sell timeshare units on behalf of third-party developers in exchange for sales, marketing and branding fees on interval sales, and to earn fees from resort operations and the servicing of consumer loans while deploying little up-front capital related to the construction of the property.



•Resort Operations—We manage the HGV Club, receiving enrollment fees, annual dues and transaction fees from member exchanges for other vacation products. We generate rental revenue from unit rentals of unsold inventory and inventory made available due to ownership exchanges under our HGV Club program. We also earn revenue from retail and spa outlets at our timeshare properties.



•Financing—We provide consumer financing, which includes interest income generated from the origination of consumer loans to customers to finance their purchase of timeshare intervals and revenue from servicing the loans.



HGV’s primary product is a fee-simple timeshare interest deeded in perpetuity. This ownership interest is an interest in real estate equivalent to annual usage rights, generally for one week, at the timeshare resort where the timeshare interval was purchased. Each purchaser is automatically enrolled in the HGV Club, giving the purchaser an annual allotment of Club Points that allow the purchaser to exchange his or her annual usage rights for a number of options, including: a priority reservation period to stay at his or her home resort where his or her timeshare interval is deeded, stays at any resort in the HGV system, reservations for experiential travel such as cruises, conversion to Hilton HHonors points for stays at our hotels and other options, including stays at more than 5,000 resorts included in the RCI timeshare vacation exchange network. In addition, we operate the Hilton Club, which operates for owners of timeshare intervals at the Hilton New York, but whose members also enjoy exchange benefits with the HGV Club.As of December 31, 2013, HGV managed a global system of42resorts and the HGV Club and the Hilton Club had more than 212,000 members in total.



Competition



We encounter active and robust competition as a hotel, residential, resort and timeshare manager, franchisor and developer. Competition in the hotel and lodging industry generally is based on the attractiveness of the facility, location, level of service, quality of accommodations, amenities, food and beverage options and outlets, public spaces and other guest services, consistency of service, room rate, brand reputation and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points through a global system. Our properties and brands compete with other hotels, resorts, motels and inns in their respective geographic markets or customer segments, including facilities owned by local interests, individuals, national and international chains, institutions, investment and pension funds and real estate investment trusts ("REITs"). We believe that our position as a multi-branded owner, operator, manager and franchisor of hotels makes us one of the largest and most geographically diverse lodging companies in the world.












Our principal competitors include other branded and independent hotel operating companies, national and international hotel brands and ownership companies, including hotel REITs. While local and independent brand competitors vary, on a global scale our primary competitors are firms such as Accor S.A., Carlson Rezidor Group, Fairmont Raffles Hotels International, Hong Kong and Shanghai Hotels, Limited, Hyatt Hotels Corporation, Intercontinental Hotel Group, Marriott International, Mövenpick Hotels and Resorts, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide and Wyndham Worldwide Corporation.



In the timeshare business, we compete with other hotel and resort timeshare operators for sales of timeshare intervals based principally on location, quality of accommodations, price, financing terms, quality of service, terms of property use and opportunity for timeshare owners to exchange into time at other timeshare properties or other travel rewards. In addition, we compete based on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as with national and independent timeshare resale companies and owners reselling existing timeshare intervals, which could reduce demand or prices for sales of new timeshare intervals. Our competitors in the timeshare space include Hyatt Residence Club, Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corp., Starwood Vacation Ownership and Wyndham Vacation Resorts.



Seasonality



The hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. The periods during which our lodging properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the customer-base served. We generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters, with the fourth quarter generally being the highest.



Cyclicality



The hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows, on a lagged basis, key macroeconomic indicators. There is a history of increases and decreases in demand for hotel rooms, in occupancy levels and in room rates realized by owners of hotels through economic cycles. The combination of changes in economic conditions and in the supply of hotel rooms can result in significant volatility in results for owners and managers of hotel properties. The costs of running a hotel tend to be more fixed than variable. As a result, in an environment of declining revenues the rate of decline in earnings can be higher than the rate of decline in revenues. The vacation ownership business also is cyclical as the demand for vacation ownership units is affected by the availability and cost of financing for purchases of vacation ownership units, as well as general economic conditions and the relative health of the housing market.



Intellectual Property



In the highly competitive hospitality industry in which we operate, trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents are very important to the success of our business. We have a significant number of trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, patents and pending registrations and expend significant resources each year on surveillance, registration and protection of our trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos and patents, which we believe have become synonymous in the hospitality industry with a reputation for excellence in service and authentic hospitality.



Government Regulation



Our business is subject to various foreign and U.S. federal and state laws and regulations, including: laws and regulations that govern the offer and sale of franchises, many of which impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements and require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in a particular state; and extensive state and federal laws and regulations relating to our timeshare business, primarily relating to the sale and marketing of timeshare intervals.



In addition, a number of states regulate the activities of hospitality properties and restaurants, including safety and health standards, as well as the sale of liquor at such properties, by requiring licensing, registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. Operators of hospitality properties also are subject to laws governing their relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. Compliance with, or changes in, these laws could reduce the revenue and profitability of our properties and could otherwise adversely affect our operations.



We also manage and own hotels with casino gaming operations as part of or adjacent to the hotels. However, with the exception of casinos at certain of our properties in Puerto Rico and one property in Egypt, third parties manage and operate the casinos. We hold and maintain the casino gaming license and manage the casinos located in Puerto Rico and Egypt and employ










third-party compliance consultants and service providers. As a result, our business operations at these facilities are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the local regulatory agency responsible for gaming licenses and operations in those jurisdictions.



Finally, as an international owner, operator and franchisor of hospitality properties in91countries and territories, we also are subject to the local laws and regulations in each country in which we operate, including employment laws and practices, privacy laws, tax laws, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the U.S. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy and other potentially adverse tax consequences.



Environmental Matters





Insurance



We maintain insurance coverage for general liability, property including business interruption, terrorism, workers’ compensation and other risks with respect to our business for all of our owned hotels. Most of our insurance policies are written with self-insured retentions or deductibles that are common in the insurance market for similar risks. These policies provide coverage for claim amounts that exceed our self-insured retentions or deductibles. Our insurance provides coverage related to any claims or losses arising out of the design, development and operation of our hotels.



U.S. hotels that we manage are permitted to participate in our insurance programs by mutual agreement with our hotel owners or, if not participating, must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. U.S. franchised hotels are not permitted to participate in our insurance programs but rather must purchase insurance programs consistent with our requirements. Non-U.S. managed and franchised hotels are required to participate in certain of our insurance programs. All other insurance programs purchased by hotel owners must meet our requirements. In addition, our management and franchise agreements typically include provisions requiring the owner of the hotel property to indemnify us against losses arising from the design, development and operation of our hotels.



History



Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in March 2010. In 1919, our founder Conrad Hilton purchased his first hotel in Cisco, Texas. Through our predecessors, we commenced operations in 1946 when our subsidiary Hilton Hotels Corporation, later renamed Hilton Worldwide, Inc., was incorporated in Delaware.












Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2013, approximately152,000people were employed at our managed, owned, leased, timeshare and corporate locations. There were an additional estimated162,000individuals working at our franchised locations that we do not employ or supervise.



As ofDecember 31, 2013, approximately26percent of our employees globally (or 29 percent of our employees in the U.S.) were covered by various collective bargaining agreements generally addressing pay rates, working hours, other terms and conditions of employment, certain employee benefits and orderly settlement of labor disputes.



Where You Can Find More Information



We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the internet at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. Our SEC filings are also available on our website at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. You may also read and copy any filed document at the SEC's public reference room in Washington, D.C. at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about public reference rooms.



We maintain an internet site at http://www.hiltonworldwide.com. Our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





