Item 1.Business



Overview



Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Walgreens Boots Alliance”), is the first global, pharmacy-led health and wellbeing enterprise with net sales of $103.4 billion in the fiscal year ended August 31, 2015. Our purpose is to help people across the world lead healthier and happier lives.



Together with our equity method investments:



·we are a global leader in pharmacy-led health and wellbeing retail, with more than 13,100 stores in 11 countries;

·we are one of the largest global pharmaceutical wholesale and distribution networks, with more than 350 distribution centers delivering to more than 200,000 pharmacies, doctors, health centers and hospitals each year in 19 countries;

·we are one of the world’s largest purchasers of prescription drugs and other health and wellbeing products; and

·we employ more than 370,000 employees, of which more than 100,000 are healthcare providers such as pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, nurse practitioners and other health related professionals.



Our portfolio of retail and business global brands includes Walgreens, Duane Reade, Boots and Alliance Healthcare, as well as increasingly global health and beauty product brands, including No7, Botanics, Liz Earle and Soap & Glory. Our global brands portfolio is enhanced by our in-house new product research and development and manufacturing capabilities. We seek to further drive innovative ways to address global health and wellness challenges. We believe we are well positioned to expand customer offerings in existing markets and become a health and wellbeing partner of choice in emerging markets.



Walgreens Boots Alliance was incorporated in Delaware in 2014 and, as described below, is the successor of Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation (“Walgreens”), which was formed in 1909 as a successor to a business founded in 1901. Our principal executive offices are located at 108 Wilmot Road, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol “WBA”.



Recent Transactions

On August 2, 2012, Walgreens acquired a 45% equity interest in Alliance Boots GmbH (“Alliance Boots”) along with a call option to acquire the remaining 55% equity interest in Alliance Boots (the “First Step Transaction”) in exchange for $4.025 billion in cash and approximately 83.4 million shares of Walgreens common stock.



On December 31, 2014, Walgreens Boots Alliance became the successor of Walgreens pursuant to a merger to effect a reorganization of Walgreens into a holding company structure (the “Reorganization”), with Walgreens Boots Alliance becoming the parent holding company. Pursuant to the Reorganization, Walgreens became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Walgreens Boots Alliance, which was formed for the purposes of the Reorganization, and each issued and outstanding share of Walgreens common stock was converted into one share of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock. Also on December 31, 2014, following the completion of the Reorganization, Walgreens Boots Alliance completed the acquisition pursuant to the call option of the remaining 55% of Alliance Boots that Walgreens did not previously own (the “Second Step Transaction”) in exchange for £3.133 billion ($4.874 billion) in cash and 144.3 million shares of Walgreens Boots Alliance common stock.



Prior to the completion of the Second Step Transaction, we accounted for our 45% investment in Alliance Boots using the equity method of accounting. Investments accounted for under the equity method are recorded initially at cost and subsequently adjusted for our share of the net income or loss and cash contributions and distributions to or from these entities. Net income reported by Alliance Boots during this period was translated from British Pounds Sterling at the average rate for the period. Upon completion of the Second Step Transaction, Alliance Boots became a consolidated subsidiary and ceased being accounted for under the equity method. For financial reporting and accounting purposes, Walgreens Boots Alliance was the acquirer of Alliance Boots. The consolidated financial statements (and other data, such as prescriptions filled) reflect the results of operations and financial position of Walgreens and its subsidiaries for periods prior to December 31, 2014 and of Walgreens Boots Alliance and its subsidiaries for periods as of and after the closing of the Reorganization on December 31, 2014. For additional information, see “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) in Part II, Item 7 below and Note 6, Equity Method Investments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 below.




On March 19, 2013, Walgreens, Alliance Boots and AmerisourceBergen Corporation(“AmerisourceBergen”)announced various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between Walgreens and AmerisourceBergen pursuant to which branded and generic pharmaceutical products are sourced from AmerisourceBergen in the U.S.; an agreement which provides AmerisourceBergen the ability to access generics and related pharmaceutical products through Walgreens Boots Alliance Development GmbH (“WBAD”), a global sourcing enterprise formed by Walgreens and Alliance Boots; and agreements and arrangements pursuant to which we have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a minority equity position in AmerisourceBergen and gain associated representation on AmerisourceBergen’s board of directors in certain circumstances. Please refer to our Form 8-K filed on March 20, 2013 for more detailed information regarding these agreements and arrangements. As of August 31, 2015, we owned approximately 5.2% of the outstanding common shares of AmerisourceBergen and had designated one member of AmerisourceBergen’s board of directors.



In addition, we have undertaken a number of additional acquisitions, divestitures, and strategic initiatives in recent years designed to grow our businesses and enhance our competitive position. These initiatives are described in MD&A in Part II, Item 7 below and Note 4, Restructuring, Note 6, Equity Method Investments and Note 8, Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 below.



Pending TransactionOn October 27, 2015, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Rite Aid Corporation ("Rite Aid'') and Victoria Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger Agreement"), pursuant to which the Company agreed, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to acquire Rite Aid, a drugstore chain in the United States with 4,561 stores in 31 states and the District of Columbia as of August 29, 2015. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of calendar 2016, subject to Rite Aid stockholder approval, regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. For more information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 below and Note 21, Subsequent Event, to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 below.



Industry Overview

The global retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industries are highly competitive and have been experiencing consolidation in recent years. Prescription drugs play a significant role in healthcare and constitute a first line of treatment for many medical conditions. We believethe long-term outlook for prescription drug utilization is strong due, in part, to aging populations, increases in life expectancy, increases in the availability and utilization of generic drugs, the continued development of innovative drugs that improve quality of life and control healthcare costs, and increases in the number of persons with insurance coverage for prescription drugs, including, in the United States, the expansion of healthcare insurance coverage under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “ACA”) and “baby boomers” increasingly becoming eligible for the federally funded Medicare Part D prescription program. Wholesalers in the pharmaceutical distribution business function as a vital link between drug manufacturers and pharmacies and healthcare providers in supplying pharmaceuticals to patients.





Generic prescription drugs have continued to help lower overall costs for customers and third party payers. We expect the utilization of generic pharmaceuticals to continue to increase.In general, in the United States, generic versions of drugs generate lower total sales dollars per prescription, but higher gross profit margins and gross profit dollars, as compared with patent-protected brand name drugs. The positive impact on retail pharmacy gross profit margins and gross profit dollars can be significant in the first several months after a generic version of a drug is first allowed to compete with the branded version, which is generally referred to as a “generic conversion”. In any given year, the number of major brand name drugs that undergo a conversion from branded to generic status can vary and the timing of generic conversions can be difficult to predict, which can have a significant impact on retail pharmacy sales, gross profit margins and gross profit dollars.



We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements and other pressures will continue to cause the industries in which we compete to evolve. Pharmacists are on the frontlines of the healthcare delivery system, and we believe rising healthcare costs and the limited supply of primary care physicians present new opportunities for pharmacists and retail pharmacies to play an even greater role in driving positive outcomes for patients and payers through expanded service offerings such as immunizations and other preventive care, healthcare clinics, pharmacist-led medication therapy management and chronic condition management.



- 2 -
Segments

Prior to December 31, 2014, Walgreens’ operations were reported within one reportable segment. Following the completion of the Reorganization and the Second Step Transaction, we organized our operations to reflect our new structure. Our operations are now organized into three divisions, which are also our reportable segments:



·Retail Pharmacy USA;

·Retail Pharmacy International; and

·Pharmaceutical Wholesale.



For fiscal 2015, our segment total sales were:  Retail Pharmacy USA, $81.0 billion; Retail Pharmacy International, $8.8 billion; and Pharmaceutical Wholesale, $15.3 billion. Due to the timing of completion of the Second Step Transaction, Retail Pharmacy International and Pharmaceutical Wholesale total sales reflect operations for the last eight months of our fiscal year. Additional information relating to our segments is included in MD&A in Part II, Item 7 below and in Note 19, Segment Reporting to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 below, which information is incorporated herein by reference.



Retail Pharmacy USA

Our Retail Pharmacy USA division has pharmacy-led health and beauty retail businesses in 50 states, the District of Colombia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, each focused on helping people feel healthy and happy. We operated 8,173 retail stores in the division as of August 31, 2015. Our principal retail pharmacy brands in the division are Walgreens and Duane Reade. We are a market leader in the United States and, as of August 31, 2015, approximately 76% of the population of the United States lived within five miles of a Walgreens or Duane Reade retail pharmacy.



We provide customers with convenient, omni-channel access to consumer goods and services, including own branded general merchandise such as NICE!, DeLishTMand Well at Walgreens, as well as pharmacy and health and wellness services in communities across America. Our websites receive an average of approximately 68 million visits per month. Integrated with our e-commerce platform, the Walgreens mobile application allows customers to refill prescriptions through scan technology, receive text messages alerting when a refill is due and other retail functionality, such as photo and shopping features.



Our services help improve health outcomes for patients and manage costs for payers including employers, managed care organizations, health systems, PBM companies and the public sector. We utilize our retail network as a channel to provide health and wellness services to our customers and patients, as illustrated by our ability to play a significant role in providing flu vaccines and other immunizations. We also provide specialty pharmacy services and manage in-store clinics branded as “Healthcare Clinic”, with more than 400 locations throughout the United States as of August 31, 2015. We have more than 74,000 healthcare service providers, including pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, nurse practitioners and other health related professionals.



The components of the division’s sales are Pharmacy (the sale of prescription drugs and provision of pharmacy-related services) and Retail (the sale of healthcare and retail products including non-prescription drugs, beauty, toiletries and general merchandise). The division’s sales are subject to the influence of seasonality, particularly the winter holiday and cough, cold and flu seasons. This seasonality also can affect the division’s proportion of sales between Retail and Pharmacy during certain periods. The components of the division’s fiscal year total sales were as follows:



Fiscal 2015Fiscal 2014Fiscal 2013Pharmacy66%64%63%Retail34%36%37%Total100%100%100%



We filled approximately 723 million prescriptions (including immunizations) in the division in fiscal 2015. Adjusted to 30-day equivalents, prescriptions filled were 894 million in fiscal 2015. Sales where reimbursement is received from managed care organizations, governmental agencies, PBM companies and private insurance were 96.8% of the division’s fiscal 2015 pharmacy sales.



We fill prescriptions for many state Medicaid public assistance programs. Revenues from all such Medicaid plans were approximately 4.5% ofthe division’s fiscal 2015 totalsales. Revenues from Medicare Part D plans were approximately 15.9% of the division’s fiscal 2015 total sales.



- 3 -
Our U.S. loyalty program, Balance® Rewards, is designed to reward our most valuable customers and encourage shopping in stores and online. Balance Rewards members receive special pricing on select products and earn everyday rewards points for purchasing most merchandise that can be instantly redeemed at our stores or through walgreens.com. As of August 31, 2015, the number of active Balance Rewards members totaled approximately 85 million. For this purpose, we define an active member as someone who has used their card in the last six months.



AmerisourceBergen began to supply and distribute all branded pharmaceutical products that we historically sourced from distributors and suppliers to the division’s retail stores as of September 1, 2013, and during calendar 2014, it began to supply and distribute increasingly significant levels of generic pharmaceutical products that, in the past, we self-distributed. This transition to AmerisourceBergen was substantially complete as of August 31, 2014. We purchase our non-pharmaceutical merchandise from numerous manufacturers and wholesalers.



Our sales, gross profit margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by, among other things, both the percentage of prescriptions that we fill that are generic and the rate at which new generic drugs are introduced to the market. Because any number of factors outside of our control can affect timing for a generic conversion, we face substantial uncertainty in predicting when such conversions will occur and what effect they will have on particular future periods.



The current environment of our pharmacy business also includes ongoing generic inflation, reimbursement pressure, and a shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day at retail (one prescription that is the equivalent of three 30-day prescriptions). In fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2015, we experienced cost increases on a subset of generic drugs that historically experienced deflation, some of which were significant. We expect this generic inflation to continue into fiscal 2016.



We continuously face reimbursement pressure from PBM companies, health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations and other commercial third party payers; our agreements with these payers are regularly subject to expiration, termination or renegotiation. In addition, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in January and our reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. We experienced lower reimbursement rates in fiscal 2015 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Further,we accepted lower Medicare Part D reimbursement rates in calendar 2015 compared to calendar 2014 in order to secure preferred relationships with Medicare Part D plans serving senior patients with significant pharmacy needs.



Our 90-day at retail prescription drug offering is typically at a lower margin than comparable 30-day prescriptions, but provides us with the opportunity to increase business with patients with chronic prescription needs while offering increased convenience, helping facilitate improved prescription adherence and resulting in a lower cost to fill the 90-day prescription. We expect that these factors will continue to have an adverse impact on gross profit dollar growth in our pharmacy business in fiscal 2016.



Retail Pharmacy International

Our Retail Pharmacy International division (excluding equity method investments) has pharmacy-led health and beauty retail businesses in eight countries, each focused on helping people look and feel their best. We operated 4,582 retail stores in this division as of August 31, 2015 (see “Properties” in Part I, Item 2 below for information regarding geographic coverage), and have grown our online presence significantly in recent years. Our principal retail pharmacy brands are Boots in the United Kingdom, Thailand, Norway, the Republic of Ireland and The Netherlands, and Benavides in Mexico and Ahumada in Chile. In Europe, we are a market leader and our retail stores are conveniently located and our pharmacists are well placed to provide a significant role in the provision of healthcare services, working closely with other primary healthcare providers in the communities we serve.



The Boots omni-channel offering is differentiated from that of competitors due to the product brands we own, such as No7, Boots Pharmaceuticals, Botanics, Liz Earle, Soap & Glory, and ‘only at Boots’ exclusive products, together with our long established reputation for trust and customer care. Our brands portfolio is enhanced by our in-house product research and development and manufacturing capabilities.



Our retail store networks are typically complemented by on-line platforms. In the United Kingdom, our transactional website, boots.com, and our consumer health and wellness portal, BootsWebMD.com, continued to be two of the most visited health websites, receiving on average approximately 19 million and 11 million visits monthly. Through the boots.com website and integrated mobile application, our ‘order and collect’ service allows customers to order from a range of over 30,000 products by 8:00 p.m. and collect by noon the following day from approximately 90% of the United Kingdom’s retail stores as of August 31, 2015.



The Boots Advantage Card loyalty program, where customers earn points on purchases for redemption at a later date, continues to be a key element of the Boots offering. As of August 31, 2015, the number of active Boots Advantage Card members totaled approximately 16 million. For this purpose, we define an active member as someone who has used their card in the last six months.



- 4 -
In addition, Boots in the United Kingdom is one of the leaders in the optical market with 637 practices, of which 177 operated on a franchise basis as of August 31, 2015. Approximately 30% of these optical practices are located in Boots stores with the balance being standalone optical practices.



The components of the division’s sales are Pharmacy (typically the sale of prescription drugs and provision of pharmacy-related services, subject to variation in particular jurisdictions depending upon regulatory and other factors) and Retail (primarily the sale of health and beauty products including beauty, toiletries and lifestyle merchandising, non-prescription drugs and, in the United Kingdom, the provision of optical services).



The division’s sales are subject to the influence of seasonality, with the second fiscal quarter typically the strongest as a result of the winter holiday period. This seasonality affects the division’s proportion of sales between Retail and Pharmacy during certain periods. Subsequent to the Second Step Transaction, for the months of January through August 2015, Pharmacy and Retail sales represented 37% and 63% of total division sales, respectively.



The division’s Retail sales, gross profit margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by, among other things, the highly competitive nature of the health and beauty category, specifically our and our competitors pricing actions, promotional offers and events and our customer’s desire for value and convenience.



The division’s Pharmacy sales, gross margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by governmental agencies and other third party payers seeking to minimize increases in the costs of healthcare, including pharmaceutical drug reimbursement rates. In the United Kingdom, our largest market for Pharmacy sales in the division, the amount of government funding available for pharmacy services is reviewed and agreed with the pharmacy industry on an annual basis, has been broadly unchanged for the last two years.



In addition, performance as measured in U.S. dollars is impacted by the exchange rates used to translate these amounts into U.S. dollars, the exchange rate of British Pounds Sterling being the most significant.



Pharmaceutical Wholesale

Our Pharmaceutical Wholesale division (excluding equity method investments), which mainly operates under the Alliance Healthcare brand, supplies medicines, other healthcare products and related services to more than 140,000 pharmacies, doctors, health centers and hospitals each year from 302 distribution centers in 12 countries, primarily in Europe, as of August 31, 2015.



The distribution of prescription medicines to pharmacists comprises the vast majority of the division’s sales. Our wholesale businesses seek to provide high core service levels to pharmacists in terms of frequency of delivery, product availability, delivery accuracy, timeliness and reliability at competitive prices. We also offer customers innovative added-value services to help pharmacists develop their own businesses. This includes membership of Alphega Pharmacy, our pan-European network for independent pharmacies, which, as of August 31, 2015, had over 6,500 members.



In addition to the wholesale of medicines and other healthcare products, our businesses provide services to pharmaceutical manufacturers who are increasingly seeking to gain greater control over their product distribution, while at the same time outsourcing non-core activities. These services include pre-wholesale and contract logistics (mainly under the Alloga brand), direct deliveries to pharmacies, and innovative and specialized healthcare services, covering clinical homecare, medicine support, dispensing services, medicine preparation and clinical trial support (mainly under the Alcura brand).



Combined with local engagement, scale is important in pharmaceutical wholesaling. We are one of the largest pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors in Europe, and we rank as one of the top three in market share in many of the individual countries in which we operate.



Our sales, gross profit margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by, among other things, government actions, which typically seek to reduce the growth in prescription drug consumption, reduce reimbursement rates and increase generic drug utilization. A greater proportion of generic drugs, whether as a result of government actions, generic conversions or other factors, typically has an adverse effect on our revenues.However, in the wholesale division we typically earn equal or better gross margins on generic drugs than on branded drugs, although there are exceptions.



- 5 -
Changes in manufacturers’ product distribution business models also can impact the division’s sales and gross margin. For example, when pharmaceutical drug manufacturers introduce fee-for-service contracts, it reduces our sales even if we are successful in winning these contracts, as we only recognize sales in the amount of the fees charged. Other manufacturer services, including our pre-wholesale and contract logistics operations are typically on a fee-for-service basis.



In addition, performance as measured in U.S. dollars is impacted by the exchange rates used to translate these amounts into U.S. dollars, the exchange rate of British Pounds Sterling and the Euro being the most significant. The division’s sales are subject to less seasonality than our other divisions.



Intellectual property and licenses

We market products and services under various trademarks, trade dress and trade names and rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, and trade secret laws, as well as contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We own numerous domain names, hold numerous patents, have registered numerous trademarks, and have filed applications for the registration of a number of our other trademarks and service marks in various jurisdictions. We hold assorted business licenses (such as pharmacy, occupational, liquor and cigarette) having various lives within multiple legal jurisdictions, which are necessary for the normal operation of our business.



Seasonal variations in business

Our business is affected by a number of factors including, among others, our sales performance during holiday periods (including particularly the winter holiday season) and during the cough, cold and flu season (the timing and severity of which is difficult to predict), significant weather conditions, the timing of our own or competitor discount programs and pricing actions, and the timing of changes in levels of reimbursement from governmental agencies and other third party payers. See “Summary of Quarterly Results (Unaudited)” in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 below.



Sources and availability of raw materials

Inventories are purchased from numerous domestic and foreign suppliers. We do not believe that the loss of any one supplier or group of suppliers under common control would have a material adverse effect on our business or that of any of our divisions.



Working capital practices

Effective inventory management is important to our operations. We use various inventory management techniques, including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. Our working capital needs typically are greater in the months leading up to the winter holiday season. We generally finance our inventory and expansion needs with internally generated funds and short-term borrowings. For additional information, see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in MD&A in Part II, Item 7 below.



Customers

We sell to numerous retail and wholesale customers. No customer or payer accounted for ten percent or more of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2015.One third party payer, OptumRx, accounted for approximately 12.3% of our Retail Pharmacy USA division’s fiscal 2015 total sales.One customer in our Retail Pharmacy International division, NHS England, accounted for approximately 20.0%ofthe division’s fiscal 2015 total sales.

Regulation

In the countries in which we do business, we are subject to national, state and local laws, regulations, and administrative practices concerning retail and wholesale pharmacy operations, including regulations relating to our participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other publicly financed health benefit plans; regulations prohibiting kickbacks, beneficiary inducement and the submission of false claims; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”); the ACA; licensure and registration requirements concerning the operation of pharmacies and the practice of pharmacy; and regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as regulations promulgated by comparable foreign, state and local governmental authorities concerning the operation of our businesses. We are also subject to laws and regulations relating to licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, currency, political and other business restrictions.



We are also governed by national, state and local laws of general applicability in the countries in which we do business, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity. In connection with the operation of our businesses, we are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances. Environmental protection requirements did not have a material effect on our results of operations or capital expenditures in fiscal 2015.



- 6 -
Competitive conditions

The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. As a leader in the retail pharmacy industry and as a retailer of general merchandise, we compete with various local, regional, national and global retailers, including chain and independent pharmacies, mail order prescription providers, grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchants, online and omni-channel pharmacies and retailers, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and other discount merchandisers. Our pharmaceutical wholesale business competes with other pharmaceutical wholesalers as well as alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. We compete primarily on the basis of service, convenience, variety and price. Our geographic dispersion helps mitigate the impact of temporary, localized economic and competitive conditions in individual markets. See “Properties” in Part I, Item 2 below for further information regarding our geographic dispersion.



Employees

As of August 31, 2015, we employed approximately 360,000 persons, approximately 115,000 of whom were part-time employees working less than 30 hours per week. The foregoing does not include employees of unconsolidated partially-owned entities.



Research and development

While our global brands portfolio is enhanced by our in-house product research and development capabilities, the amount we spend on research and development activities is not material.



Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

Prior to completion of the Second Step Transaction, we accounted for our 45% investment in Alliance Boots using the equity method of accounting and as a result, no Alliance Boots sales were included in our net sales prior to December 31, 2014. All our sales in fiscal years 2014 and 2013 occurred within the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Subsequent to the Second Step Transaction, Alliance Boots results have been fully consolidated. Certain financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations, including total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our U.S. and non-U.S. operations, is included in Note 19, Segment Reporting to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 below, which information is incorporated herein by reference. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A below for information regarding risks attendant to our foreign operations.



Available Information

We file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as well as proxy statements and registration statements. You may read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically. We make available free of charge on or through our website at http://investor.walgreensbootsalliance.com our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them to the SEC. The contents of our website are not, however, a part of this Form 10-K or our other SEC filings.



