Item 1.Business



Overview



Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Walgreens Boots Alliance”) is the first global, pharmacy-led health and wellbeing enterprise with sales of $117.4 billion in the fiscal year ended August 31, 2016. Our purpose is to help people across the world lead healthier and happier lives.



Walgreens Boots Alliance is the largest retail pharmacy, health and daily living destination across the U.S. and Europe. Walgreens Boots Alliance and the companies in which it has equity method investments together have a presence in more than 25(1)countries and employ more than 400,000(1)people. The company is a global leader in pharmacy-led, health and wellbeing retail and, together with the companies in which it has equity method investments, has over 13,200(1)stores in 11(1)countries as well as one of the largest global pharmaceutical wholesale and distribution networks, with over 390(1)distribution centers delivering to more than 230,000(2)pharmacies, doctors, health centers and hospitals each year in more than 20(1)countries. In addition, Walgreens Boots Alliance is one of the world’s largest purchasers of prescription drugs and many other health and wellbeing products.

Our portfolio of retail and business brands includes Walgreens, Duane Reade, Boots and Alliance Healthcare, as well as increasingly global health and beauty product brands,such asNo7, Botanics, Liz Earle and Soap & Glory. Our global brands portfolio is enhanced by our in-house new product research and development and manufacturing capabilities. We seek to further drive innovative ways to address global health and wellness challenges. We believe we are well positioned to expand customer offerings in existing markets and become a health and wellbeing partner of choice in emerging markets.

Walgreens Boots Alliance was incorporated in Delaware in 2014 and, as described below, is the successor of Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation, which was formed in 1909 as a successor to a business founded in 1901. Our principal executive offices are located at 108 Wilmot Road, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol “WBA”.



Recent Transactions

On March 18, 2016, we exercised warrants to purchase 22,696,912 shares of AmerisourceBergen Corporation (“AmerisourceBergen”) common stock at an exercise price of $51.50 per share for an aggregate exercise price payment of $1.17 billion. On August 25, 2016, we exercised additional warrants to purchase 22,696,912 shares of AmerisourceBergen common stock at an exercise price of $52.50 per share for an aggregate exercise price payment of $1.19 billion. Following the August 25, 2016 warrant exercise, we do not hold any further warrants to purchase shares of AmerisourceBergen common stock. As of August 31, 2016, we owned 56,854,867 AmerisourceBergen common shares representing approximately 24% of the outstanding AmerisourceBergen common stock and had designated one member of AmerisourceBergen’s board of directors. As of August 31, 2016, we can acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 AmerisourceBergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate a second member of AmerisourceBergen’s board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. The amount of permitted open market purchases is subject to increase or decrease in certain circumstances.



Effective March 18, 2016, we account for our investment in AmerisourceBergen using the equity method of accounting, subject to a two-month reporting lag, with the net earnings attributable to our investment being classified within the operating income of our Pharmaceutical Wholesale segment. See Note 5, Equity Method Investments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for further information. Due to the March 18, 2016 effective date and the two-month reporting lag, our results for the 12 month period ended August 31, 2016 include approximately three and a half months of equity method income relating to our investment in AmerisourceBergen. Similarly, due to the timing of the warrant exercise and the two month reporting lag, our results for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2016 will include approximately five weeks of equity income reflecting our increased ownership following the exercise on August 25, 2016 of the second tranche of warrants.





In March 2013, Walgreens, Alliance Boots and AmerisourceBergenannounced various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between Walgreens and AmerisourceBergen pursuant to which branded and generic pharmaceutical products are sourced from AmerisourceBergen in the U.S.; and an agreement which provides AmerisourceBergen the ability to access genericspharmaceutical products through Walgreens Boots Alliance Development GmbH (“WBAD”), the Company’s global sourcing enterprise. In May 2016, certain of these agreements were extended for three years to now expire in 2026.







(1)As of 31 August 2016, using publicly available information for AmerisourceBergen.(2)For 12 months ending 31 August 2016, using publicly available information for AmerisourceBergen.

- 1 -
In addition, in March 2013, Walgreens, Alliance Boots and AmerisourceBergen entered into agreements and arrangements pursuant to which weobtainedthe right, but not the obligation, to purchase a minority equity position in AmerisourceBergen over time through open market purchases and pursuant to warrants to acquire AmerisourceBergen common stock and gain associated representation on AmerisourceBergen’s board of directors in certain circumstances.Please refer to our Form 8-K filed on March 20, 2013 for more detailed information regarding these agreements and arrangements.

In addition, we have undertaken a number of additional acquisitions, divestitures, and strategic initiatives in recent years designed to grow our businesses and enhance our competitive position. Please refer to MD&A in Part II, Item 7 below and Note 3, Restructuring, Note 5, Equity Method Investments and Note 7, Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 below for additional information.



Pending Transaction

On October 27, 2015, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Rite Aid Corporation (“Rite Aid”) and Victoria Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the “Merger Agreement”), pursuant to which the Company agreed, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, to acquire Rite Aid, a drugstore chain in the United States with 4,550 stores in 31 states and the District of Columbia as of August 27, 2016. The Merger Agreement was approved by Rite Aid stockholders in February 2016. The transaction is expected to closein earlycalendar2017, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.

Industry Overview

The retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industriesacross the globeare highly competitive and have been experiencing consolidation in recent years. Prescription drugs play a significant role in healthcare and constitute a first line of treatment for many medical conditions. We believethe long-term outlook for prescription drug utilization is strong due, in part, to aging populations, increases in life expectancy, increases in the availability and utilization of generic drugs, the continued development of innovative drugs that improve quality of life and control healthcare costs, and increases in the number of persons with insurance coverage for prescription drugs, including, in the United States, the expansion of healthcare insurance coverage under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “ACA”) and “baby boomers” increasingly becoming eligible for the federally funded Medicare Part D prescription program.Pharmaceutical wholesalers actas a vital link between drug manufacturers and pharmacies and healthcare providers in supplying pharmaceuticals to patients.

- 2 -
across the globe

in the United States and the UK Department of Health plans to implement funding cuts to reduce costs within the National Health Service by reducing drug reimbursement rates.

in the United States and pharmacy reimbursements in the UK



Generic prescription drugs have continued to help lower overall costs for customers and third party payers. We expect the utilization of generic pharmaceuticals to continue to increase.In general, in the United States, generic versions of drugs generate lower sales dollars per prescription, but higher gross profitdollars, as compared with patent-protected brand name drugs. The positive impact on retail pharmacy gross profitdollars can be significant in the first several months after a generic version of a drug is first allowed to compete with the branded version, which is generally referred to as a “generic conversion”. In any given year, the number of major brand name drugs that undergo a conversion from branded to generic status can vary and the timing of generic conversions can be difficult to predict, which can have a significant impact on retail pharmacy sales and gross profitdollars.

We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements and other pressures will continue to cause the industries in which we compete to evolve. Pharmacists are on the frontlines of the healthcare delivery system, and we believe rising healthcare costs and the limited supply of primary care physicians present new opportunities for pharmacists and retail pharmacies to play an even greater role in driving positive outcomes for patients and payers through expanded service offerings such as immunizations and other preventive care, healthcare clinics, pharmacist-led medication therapy management and chronic condition management.



Segments

Our operations are organized into three divisions, which are also our reportable segments:



·Retail Pharmacy USA;·Retail Pharmacy International; and·Pharmaceutical Wholesale.



For fiscal 2016, our segment sales were:  Retail Pharmacy USA, $83.8 billion; Retail Pharmacy International, $13.3 billion; and Pharmaceutical Wholesale, $22.6 billion. Additional information relating to our segments is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 below and in Note 18, Segment Reporting to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 below, which information is incorporated herein by reference.



Retail Pharmacy USA

Our Retail Pharmacy USA division (excluding equity method investments) has pharmacy-led health and beauty retailofferingsin 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, each focused on helping people feel happy and healthy. We operated 8,175 retail stores in the division as of August 31, 2016. Our principal retail pharmacy brands in the division are Walgreens and Duane Reade. We are a market leader in the United States and, as of August 31, 2016, approximately 76% of the population of the United States lived within five miles of a Walgreens or Duane Reade retail pharmacy.We provide customers with convenient, omni-channel access to consumer goods and services, including own branded general merchandise such as NICE!, DeLishTMand Well at Walgreens, as well as pharmacy and health and wellness services in communities across America. Ourwalgreens.com website receives an average of 58 million visits per month. Integrated with our e-commerce platform, the Walgreens mobile application allows customers to refill prescriptions through scan technology, receive text messages alerting when a refill is due and other retail functionality, such as photo and shopping features.

- 3 -
Our services help improve health outcomes for patients and manage costs for payers including employers, managed care organizations, health systems, PBM companies and the public sector. We utilize our retail network as a channel to provide health and wellness services to our customers and patients, as illustrated by our ability to play a significant role in providing flu vaccines and other immunizations. We also provide specialty pharmacy services. Asof August 31, 2016,wehad approximately 400 in-store clinic locations throughout the United States, some of which are operated by the Company and some of which are operated by health system partners. We have more than 76,000 healthcare service providers, including pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, nurse practitioners and other health related professionals.

The components of the division’s sales are Pharmacy (the sale of prescription drugs and provision of pharmacy-related services) and Retail (the sale of healthcare and retail products including non-prescription drugs, beauty, toiletries and general merchandise). The division’s sales are subject to the influence of seasonality, particularly the winter holiday and cough, cold and flu seasons. This seasonality also can affect the division’s proportion of sales between Retail and Pharmacy during certain periods. The components of the division’s fiscal year sales were as follows:



Fiscal 2016Fiscal 2015Fiscal 2014Pharmacy67%66%64%Retail33%34%36%Total100%100%100%



We filled 740.1 million prescriptions (including immunizations) in the division in fiscal 2016. Adjusted to 30-day equivalents, prescriptions filled were 928.5 million in fiscal 2016. Sales where reimbursement is received from managed care organizations, governmental agencies, PBM companies and private insurance wereapproximately97% of the division’s fiscal 2016 pharmacy sales.

We fill prescriptions for many state Medicaid public assistance programs. Sales from all such Medicaid plans were approximately 4% ofthe division’s fiscal 2016 sales. Sales from Medicare Part D plans were approximately 17% of the division’s fiscal 2016 sales.Our U.S. loyalty program, Balance® Rewards, is designed to reward our most valuable customers and encourage shopping in stores and online. Balance® Rewards members receive special pricing on select products and earn everyday rewards points for purchasing most merchandise that can be instantly redeemed at our stores or through walgreens.com. As of August 31, 2016, the number of active Balance® Rewards members totaled 87.4 million. For this purpose, we define an active member as someone who has used their card in the last six months.

AmerisourceBergen supplies and distributes a significant amount of generic and branded pharmaceutical products to the division’spharmacies.We purchase our non-pharmaceutical merchandise from numerous manufacturers and wholesalers.Our sales, and gross profit are impacted by, among other things, both the percentage of prescriptions that we fill that are generic and the rate at which new generic drugs are introduced to the market. Because any number of factors outside of our control can affect timing for a generic conversion, we face substantial uncertainty in predicting when such conversions will occur and what effect they will have on particular future periods.The current environment of ourpharmacy business alsoincludes ongoing reimbursement pressure and a shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day at retail (one prescription that is the equivalentof three 30-day prescriptions) and Medicare Part D prescriptions. Further consolidation among generic manufacturers coupled with changes in thenumber of major brand name drugs anticipated to undergo a conversion from branded to generic statusmay also result in gross margin pressures within the industry.

We continuously face reimbursement pressure from PBM companies, health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations and other commercial third party payers; our agreements with these payers are regularly subject to expiration, termination or renegotiation. In addition, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in January and our reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. We experienced lower reimbursement rates in fiscal 2016 as compared to the same period in the prior year. Further,we accepted lower Medicare Part D reimbursement rates for calendar 2016 compared to calendar 2015 in order to secure preferred relationships with Medicare Part D plans serving senior patients with significant pharmacy needs.We expect this trend to continue.



- 4 -
We also have worked to develop and expand our relationships with commercial third party payers to enable new and/or improved market access via participation in pharmacy provider networks they offer. The prescription volume impact of new agreements and relationships typically is incremental over time. In fiscal 2017, we anticipate prescription growth to be relatively stronger in the second half of the fiscal year reflecting the timing and development of these strategic relationships.

Our 90-day at retail prescription drug offering is typically at a lower margin than comparable 30-day prescriptions, but provides us with the opportunity to increase business with patients with chronic prescription needs while offering increased convenience, helping facilitate improved prescription adherence and resulting in a lower cost to fill the 90-day prescription.

Retail Pharmacy International

Our Retail Pharmacy International division (excluding equity method investments) has pharmacy-led health and beauty retail businesses in eight countries, each focused on helping people look and feel their best. We operated 4,673 retail stores in the division as of August 31, 2016 (see “Properties” in Part I, Item 2 below for information regarding geographic coverage), and have grown our online presence significantly in recent years. Our principal retail pharmacy brands are Boots in the United Kingdom, Thailand, Norway, the Republic of Ireland and The Netherlands, Benavides in Mexico and Ahumada in Chile. In Europe, we are a market leader and our retail stores are conveniently located and our pharmacists are well placed to provide a significant role in the provision of healthcare services, working closely with other primary healthcare providers in the communities we serve.



The Boots omni-channel offering is differentiated from that of competitors due to the product brands we own, such as No7, Boots Pharmaceuticals, Botanics, Liz Earle, Soap & Glory, and ‘only at Boots’ exclusive products, together with our long established reputation for trust and customer care. Our brands portfolio is enhanced by our in-house product research and development and manufacturing capabilities.



Our retail store networks are typically complemented by online platforms. In the United Kingdom, our transactional website, boots.com,  receives on average approximately 20 million visits monthly. Through the boots.com website and integrated mobile application, our ‘order and collect’ service allows customers to order from a range of over 35,000 products by 8:00 p.m. and collect from noon the following day from approximately95% of the United Kingdom’s retail stores as of August 31, 2016.

The Boots Advantage Card loyalty program, where customers earn points on purchases for redemption at a later date, continues to be a key element of the Boots offering. As of August 31, 2016, the number of active Boots Advantage Card members totaled 15.5 million. For this purpose, we define an active member as someone who has used their card in the last six months.

In addition, Boots in the United Kingdom is one of the leaders in the optical market with 636 practices, of which 182 operated on a franchise basis as of August 31, 2016. Approximately 30% of these optical practices are located in Boots stores with the balance being standalone optical practices.



The components of the division’s sales are Pharmacy (typically the sale of prescription drugs and provision of pharmacy-related services, subject to variation in particular jurisdictions depending upon regulatory and other factors) and Retail (primarily the sale of health and beauty products including beauty, toiletries and lifestyle merchandising, non-prescription drugs and, in the United Kingdom, the provision of optical services).



The division’s sales are subject to the influence of seasonality, with the second fiscal quarter typically the strongest as a result of the winter holiday period. This seasonality affects the division’s proportion of sales between Retail and Pharmacy during certain periods. The components of the division’s fiscal year sales were as follows:



Fiscal 2016Fiscal 2015(1)Fiscal 2014Pharmacy35%37%NARetail65%63%NATotal100%100%NA



(1)Fiscal 2015 includes periods subsequent to the Second Step Transaction, for the months of January through August 2015.



- 5 -
The division’s Retail sales, gross profit margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by, among other things, the highly competitive nature of the health and beauty category, specifically our and our competitors pricing actions, promotional offers and events and our customer’s desire for value and convenience.



The division’s Pharmacy sales, gross margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by governmental agencies and other third party payers seeking to minimize increases in the costs of healthcare, including pharmaceutical drug reimbursement rates. In the United Kingdom,which is the division’slargest market for Pharmacy sales, the amount of government funding available for pharmacy services istypicallyreviewed and agreed with the pharmacy industry on an annual basis.In fiscal 2017, the UK Department of Health has indicated that they plan to implement funding cuts to reduce costs within the National Health Service, the publicly-funded healthcare system.

In addition, performance as measured in U.S. dollars is impacted by the exchange rates used to translate these amounts into U.S. dollars, the exchange rate of British Pounds Sterling being the most significant.



Pharmaceutical Wholesale

Our Pharmaceutical Wholesale division (excluding equity method investments), which mainly operates under the Alliance Healthcare brand, supplies medicines, other healthcare products and related services to more than 110,000 pharmacies, doctors, health centers and hospitals each year from 288 distribution centers in 11 countries, primarily in Europe, as of August 31, 2016.



The distribution of prescription medicines to pharmacists comprises the vast majority of the division’s sales. Our wholesale businesses seek to provide high core service levels to pharmacists in terms of frequency of delivery, product availability, delivery accuracy, timeliness and reliability at competitive prices. We also offer customers innovative added-value services to help pharmacists develop their own businesses. This includes membership of Alphega Pharmacy, our pan-European network for independent pharmacies, which, as of August 31, 2016, had over 5,700 members.



In addition to the wholesale of medicines and other healthcare products, our businesses provide services to pharmaceutical manufacturers who are increasingly seeking to gain greater control over their product distribution, while at the same time outsourcing non-core activities. These services include pre-wholesale and contract logistics (mainly under the Alloga brand), direct deliveries to pharmacies, and innovative and specialized healthcare services, covering clinical homecare, medicine support, dispensing services, medicine preparation and clinical trial support (mainly under the Alcura brand).



Combined with local engagement, scale is important in pharmaceutical wholesaling. We are one of the largest pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors in Europe, and we rank as one of the top three in market share in many of the individual countries in which we operate.



Our sales, gross profit margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by, among other things, government actions, which typically seek to reduce the growth in prescription drug consumption, reduce reimbursement rates and increase generic drug utilization. A greater proportion of generic drugs, whether as a result of government actions, generic conversions or other factors, typically has an adverse effect on our revenues. However, in the wholesale division we typically earn equal or better gross margins on generic drugs than on branded drugs, although there are exceptions.



Changes in manufacturers’ product distribution business models also can impact the division’s sales and gross margin. For example, when pharmaceutical drug manufacturers introduce fee-for-service contracts, it reduces our sales even if we are successful in winning these contracts, as we only recognize sales for the amount of the fees charged. Other manufacturer services, including our pre-wholesale and contract logistics operations are typically on a fee-for-service basis.



In addition, performance as measured in U.S. dollars is impacted by the exchange rates used to translate these amounts into U.S. dollars, the exchange rate of British Pounds Sterling and the Euro being the most significant. The division’s sales are subject to less seasonality than our other divisions.



Intellectual property and licenses

We market products and services under various trademarks, trade dress and trade names and rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, and trade secret laws, as well as contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We own numerous domain names, hold numerous patents, have registered numerous trademarks, and have filed applications for the registration of a number of our other trademarks and service marks in various jurisdictions. We hold assorted business licenses (such as pharmacy, occupational, liquor and cigarette) having various lives within multiple legal jurisdictions, which are necessary for the normal operation of our business.



- 6 -
Seasonal variations in business

Our business is affected by a number of factors including, among others, our sales performance during holiday periods (including particularly the winter holiday season) and during the cough, cold and flu season (the timing and severity of which is difficult to predict), significant weather conditions, the timing of our own or competitor discount programs and pricing actions, and the timing of changes in levels of reimbursement from governmental agencies and other third party payers. See “Summary of Quarterly Results (Unaudited)” in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 below.



Sources and availability of raw materials

Inventories are purchased from numerous domestic and foreign suppliers. We do not believe that the loss of any one supplier or group of suppliers under common control would have a material adverse effect on our business or that of any of our divisions.



Working capital practices

Effective inventory management is important to our operations. We use various inventory management techniques, including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. Our working capital needs typically are greater in the months leading up to the winter holiday season. We generally finance our inventory and expansion needs with internally generated funds and short-term borrowings. For additional information, see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 below.



Customers

We sell to numerous retail and wholesale customers. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s consolidated sales for any of the periods presented. Two payersaccounted for approximately22% of the Retail Pharmacy USA division’s sales in fiscal 2016. Onepayerin the Retail Pharmacy International division accounted for approximately 18% of the division’s sales in fiscal 2016.

Regulation

In the countries in which we do business, we are subject to national, state and local laws, regulations, and administrative practices concerning retail and wholesale pharmacy operations, including regulations relating to our participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other publicly financed health benefit plans; regulations prohibiting kickbacks, beneficiary inducement and the submission of false claims; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”); the ACA; licensure and registration requirements concerning the operation of pharmacies and the practice of pharmacy; and regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as regulations promulgated by comparable foreign, state and local governmental authorities concerning the operation of our businesses. We are also subject to laws and regulations relating to licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, currency, political and other business restrictions.



We are also governed by national, state and local laws of general applicability in the countries in which we do business, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity. In connection with the operation of our businesses, we are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances. Environmental protection requirements did not have a material effect on our results of operations or capital expenditures in fiscal 2016.



Competitive conditions

The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. As a leader in the retail pharmacy industry and as a retailer of general merchandise, we compete with various local, regional, national and global retailers, including chain and independent pharmacies, mail order prescription providers, grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchants, online and omni-channel pharmacies and retailers, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and other discount merchandisers. Our pharmaceutical wholesalebusinesses competewith other pharmaceutical wholesalers as well as alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. We compete primarily on the basis of service, convenience, variety and price. Our geographic dispersion helps mitigate the impact of temporary, localized economic and competitive conditions in individual markets. See “Properties” in Part I, Item 2 below for further information regarding our geographic dispersion.

- 7 -
Employees

As of August 31, 2016, we employed approximately 360,000 persons, approximately 120,000 of whom were part-time employees working less than 30 hours per week. The foregoing does not include employees of unconsolidated partially-owned entities.

Research and development

While our global brands portfolio is enhanced by our in-house product research and development capabilities, the amount we spend on research and development activities is not material.



Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales

Prior to completion of the Second Step Transaction, we accounted for our 45% investment in Alliance Boots using the equity method of accounting and as a result, no Alliance Boots sales were included in our sales prior to December 31, 2014. All our sales in fiscal year 2014 occurred within the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Subsequent to the Second Step Transaction, Alliance Boots results have been fully consolidated. Certain financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations, including total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our U.S. and non-U.S. operations, is included in Note 18, Segment Reporting to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 below, which information is incorporated herein by reference. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A below for information regarding risks attendant to our foreign operations.



Available Information

We file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as well as proxy statements and registration statements. You may read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically. We make available free of charge on or through our website at http://investor.walgreensbootsalliance.com our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them to the SEC. The contents of our website are not, however, a part of this Form 10-K or our other SEC filings.



