ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We are a medical device company focused on the design, development and commercialization of continuous glucose monitoring systems for
ambulatory use by people with diabetes and for use by healthcare providers in the hospital for the treatment of both diabetic and non-diabetic patients.

Ambulatory Product Line: SEVEN®PLUS

We received approval from the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and commercialized our first product in 2006. In 2007, we received
approval and began commercializing our second generation system, the SEVEN, and on February 13, 2009, we received approval for our third generation system, the SEVEN PLUS, which is designed for up to seven days of continuous use, and we began
commercializing this product in the first quarter of 2009. We no longer market or provide support for the SEVEN system. There are various differences between the SEVEN and the SEVEN PLUS. As compared to the SEVEN, the SEVEN PLUS incorporates
additional user interface and algorithm enhancements that are intended to make its glucose monitoring function more accurate and customizable. The approval of the SEVEN PLUS by the FDA allows for the use of the SEVEN PLUS by adults with diabetes to
detect trends and track glucose patterns, to aid in the detection of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia and to facilitate acute and long-term therapy adjustments.

In-Hospital Product Line: GlucoClear®

To address the in-hospital patient
population, we entered into an exclusive agreement with Edwards Lifesciences LLC, or Edwards, to develop jointly and market a specific product platform for the in-hospital glucose monitoring market, with an initial focus on the development of an
intravenous sensor specifically for the critical care market. On October 30, 2009, we received CE Mark approval for our first generation blood-based in-vivo automated glucose monitoring system, which we have branded the GlucoClear, for use by
healthcare providers in the hospital, and are continuing to seek approval for this system from the FDA. In partnership with Edwards, we initiated a very limited launch of the GlucoClear system in Europe in 2009.

Background

From inception to 2006, we devoted substantially all of our resources to start-up activities, raising capital and research and development, including product design, testing, manufacturing and clinical
trials. Since 2006,







we have devoted considerable resources to the commercialization of our ambulatory continuous glucose monitoring systems, including the SEVEN PLUS, as well as the continued research and clinical
development of our technology platform.

The International Diabetes Federation, or IDF, estimates that 285 million people
around the world have diabetes, and the Centers for Disease Control, or CDC, estimates that diabetes affects 25.8 million people in the United States. IDF estimates that by 2030, the worldwide incidence of people suffering from diabetes will reach
438.0 million. The increased prevalence of diabetes is believed to be the result of an aging population, unhealthy diets and increasingly sedentary lifestyles. According to the CDC, diabetes was the seventh leading cause of death by disease in the
United States during 2007, and complications related to diabetes include heart disease, limb amputations, loss of kidney function and blindness.

According to a CDC spokesman cited in aNew York Timesarticle, one in every three children born in the United States in 2001 was expected to become diabetic in their lifetimes, and every day in
the United States, on average, there would be 4,100 people diagnosed with diabetes, 230 people undergoing amputations as a result of diabetes, 120 people who enter end-stage kidney disease programs and 55 people who lose their vision.

According to the American Diabetes Association, or ADA, one in every ten health care dollars was spent on treating diabetes in 2007, and
the direct medical costs and indirect expenditures attributable to diabetes in the United States were an estimated $174 billion, an increase of $42 billion since 2002. Of the $174 billion in overall expenses, the ADA estimated that approximately $89
billion were costs associated with chronic complications and excess general medical costs, $27 billion were costs associated with diabetes care and $58 billion were indirect medical costs. The ADA also found that average medical expenditures among
people with diagnosed diabetes were 2.3 times higher than for people without diabetes.

We believe continuous glucose
monitoring has the potential to enable more people with diabetes to achieve and sustain tight glycemic control. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) demonstrated that improving blood glucose control lowers the risk of developing
diabetes related complications by up to 50%. The study also demonstrated that people with Type 1 diabetes achieved sustained benefits with intensive management. Yet, according to an article published in theJournal of the American Medical
Association(JAMA) in 2004, less than 50% of diabetes patients were meeting ADA standards for glucose control (A1c), and only 37% of people with diabetes were achieving their glycemic targets. The CDC estimated that as of 2006, 63.4% of all
adults with diabetes were monitoring their blood glucose levels on a daily basis, and that 86.7% of insulin-requiring patients with diabetes monitored daily.

Various clinical studies also demonstrate the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and that continuous glucose monitoring is equally effective in patients who administer insulin through multiple
daily injections or through use of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion pumps. Results of a Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF) study published in theNew England Journal of Medicinein 2008, and the extension phase of the study,
published inDiabetes Carein 2009, demonstrated that continuous glucose monitoring improved A1c levels and reduced incidence of hypoglycemia for patients over the age of 25 and for all patients of all ages who utilized continuous glucose
monitoring regularly.

Our initial target market in the United States consists of an estimated 30% of people with Type 1
diabetes who utilize insulin pump therapy and an estimated 50% of people with Type 1 diabetes who utilize multiple daily insulin injections. Our broader target market in the United States consists of our initial target market plus an estimated 20%
of people with Type 1 diabetes using conventional insulin therapy and the 27% of people with Type 2 diabetes who require insulin. Although our initial focus is within the United States, our CE Mark approval also enables us to commercialize our
system in those European, Asian and Latin American countries that recognize the CE Mark.







Close Concerns, Inc., a healthcare information firm exclusively focused on diabetes and
obesity, founded dQ&A Market Research Inc., a market research business with over 3,000 panel members that participate in diabetes related surveys. A dQ&A Panel Summary Report from February 2011 estimated that our share of the continuous
glucose monitoring system market in the United States was at 48%. The report analyzed responses from 382 panel members who were asked what brand and model of continuous glucose monitoring system they used.

We have built a direct sales organization to call on endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators who can educate and influence
patient adoption of continuous glucose monitoring. We believe that focusing efforts on these participants is important given the instrumental role they each play in the decision-making process for diabetes therapy. To complement our direct sales
efforts, we also employ clinical specialists who educate and provide clinical support in the field, and we have entered into a limited number of distribution arrangements that allow distributors to sell our products. Although we plan to modestly
increase the size of the sales organization in 2011, we believe our direct, highly-specialized and focused sales organization is sufficient for us to support our sales efforts.

As a medical device company, reimbursement from Medicare and private third-party healthcare payors is an important element of our success. Although the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid, or CMS, released
2008 Alpha-Numeric Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (“HCPCS”) codes applicable to each of the three components of our continuous glucose monitoring systems, to date, our approved products are not reimbursed by virtue of a national
coverage decision by Medicare. It is not known when, if ever, Medicare will adopt a national coverage decision with respect to continuous glucose monitoring devices. Until any such coverage decision is adopted by Medicare, reimbursement of our
products will generally be limited to those patients covered by third-party payors that have adopted coverage policies for continuous glucose monitoring devices. As of March 2011, the seven largest private third-party payors, in terms of the number
of covered lives, have issued coverage policies for the category of continuous glucose monitoring devices. In addition, we have negotiated contracted rates with six of those third-party payors for the purchase of our SEVEN PLUS system by their
members. Many of these coverage policies are restrictive in nature and require the patient to comply with extensive documentation and other requirements to demonstrate medical necessity under the policy. In addition, patients







who are insured by payors that do not offer coverage for our devices will have to bear the financial cost of the products. We currently employ in-house reimbursement expertise to assist patients
in obtaining reimbursement from private third-party payors. We also maintain a field-based reimbursement team charged with calling on third-party private payors to obtain coverage decisions and contracts. We have had formal meetings and have
increased our efforts to create and liberalize coverage policies with third-party payors and expect to continue to do so in 2011. However, unless government and other third-party payors provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products,
patients may not use them on a widespread basis.

We plan to develop future generations of technologies focused on improved
performance and convenience and that will enable intelligent insulin administration. Our next generation of technologies are not yet FDA approved, but in the near term, we are seeking regulatory approval for a next generation sensor platform using
advanced manufacturing processes that are more scalable and reliable. Over the longer term, we plan to develop networked platforms with open architecture, connectivity and transmitters capable of communicating with other devices.

Market Opportunity

Diabetes

Diabetes is typically classified into two major groups: Type 1 and Type 2. We estimate that there are approximately 1.3 million Type
1 diabetes patients in the United States. Type 1 diabetes usually develops during childhood and is characterized by an absence of insulin, resulting from destruction of the insulin producing cells of the pancreas. Individuals with Type 1
diabetes must rely on frequent insulin injections in order to regulate and maintain blood glucose levels. We estimate that there are approximately 24.5 million people with Type 2 diabetes in the United States, which results when the body is
unable to produce sufficient amounts of insulin or becomes insulin resistant. Depending on the severity of Type 2 diabetes, individuals may require diet and nutrition management, exercise, oral medications or insulin injections to regulate blood
glucose levels. We estimate that approximately 3.6 million Type 2 patients must use insulin to manage their diabetes.

There are various subgroups of diabetic patients, including in-hospital patients, who present significant management challenges.
According to the ADA, diabetes related hospitalizations totaled 24.3 million days in 2007, an increase of 7.4 million days from 2002. Additionally, studies show that many non-diabetic hospital patients suffer episodes of hyperglycemia.
According to aDiabetes Carearticle, as of 1998, as many as 1.5 million hospitalized patients had significant hyperglycemia without a history of diabetes. A November 2001 article in theNew England Journal of Medicinesummarized
a study of over 1,500 hospitalized patients, of which only 13% were diabetic, which concluded that intensive insulin therapy to maintain blood glucose levels within a target range reduced mortality among critically ill patients in the surgical
intensive care unit and improved patient outcomes.







According to the National Diabetes Education Program, about 75% of all newly diagnosed cases
of Type 1 diabetes in the United States occur in juveniles younger than 18 years of age. In addition, Type 2 diabetes is occurring with increasing frequency in young people. The increase in prevalence is related to an increase in obesity amongst
children. As of 2002, approximately 16% of children and teens were overweight, about double the number two decades before.

Importance
of Glucose Monitoring

Blood glucose levels can be affected by many factors, including the carbohydrate and fat content
of meals, exercise, stress, illness or impending illness, hormonal releases, variability in insulin absorption and changes in the effects of insulin in the body. Given the many factors that affect blood glucose levels, maintaining glucose within a
normal range is difficult, resulting in frequent and unpredictable excursions above or below normal blood glucose levels. Patients manage their blood glucose levels by administering insulin or ingesting carbohydrates throughout the day in order to
maintain blood glucose within normal ranges. Patients frequently overcorrect and fluctuate between hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic states, often multiple times during the same day. As a result, many patients with diabetes are routinely outside the
normal blood glucose range. Patients are often unaware that their glucose levels are either too high or too low, and their inability to completely control blood glucose levels and the associated serious complications can be frustrating and, at
times, overwhelming.

In an attempt to maintain blood glucose levels within the normal range, patients with diabetes must
first measure their blood glucose levels. Often after measuring their blood glucose levels, patients make therapeutic adjustments. As adjustments are made, additional blood glucose measurements may be necessary to gauge the individual’s
response to the adjustments. More frequent testing of blood glucose levels provides patients with information that can be used to better understand and manage their diabetes. The ADA recommends that patients test their blood glucose levels at least
three or four times per day.

Clinical outcomes data support the notion that an important component of effective diabetes
management is frequent monitoring of blood glucose levels. The landmark 1993 Diabetes Control and Complications Trial, or DCCT, consisting of patients with Type 1 diabetes, and the 1998 UK Prospective Diabetes Study, consisting of patients with Type
2 diabetes, demonstrated that patients who intensely managed blood glucose levels delayed the onset and slowed the progression of diabetes-related complications. In the DCCT, a major component of intensive management was monitoring blood glucose
levels at least four times per day using conventional single-point blood glucose meters. The DCCT demonstrated that intensive management reduced the risk of complications by 76% for eye disease, 60% for nerve disease and 50% for kidney disease.
However, the DCCT also found that intensive management led to a three-fold increase in the frequency of hypoglycemic events. In the December 2005 edition of theNew England Journal of Medicine, the authors of a peer-reviewed study concluded
that intensive diabetes therapy has long-term beneficial effects on the risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with Type 1 diabetes. The study showed that intensive diabetes therapy reduced the risk of cardiovascular disease by 42% and the risk
of non-fatal heart attack, stroke or death from cardiovascular disease by 57%.

Limitations of Existing Glucose Monitoring Products

Single-point finger stick devices are the most prevalent devices for glucose monitoring. These devices require taking
a blood sample with a finger stick, placing a drop of blood on a test strip and inserting the strip into a glucose meter that yields a single point in time blood glucose measurement. We believe that these devices suffer from several limitations,
including:



•Limited Information.Even if patients test several times each day, each measurement represents a single blood glucose value at a single point in
time. Given the many factors that can affect blood glucose levels, excursions above and below the normal range often occur between these discrete measurement points in time. Because patients only have single-point data, they do not gain sufficient
information to indicate the direction or rate of change in their blood glucose levels. Without the ability







to determine whether their blood glucose level is rising, falling or holding constant, and the rate at which their blood glucose level is changing, the patient’s ability to effectively
manage and maintain blood glucose levels within normal ranges is severely limited. In addition, patients cannot test themselves during sleep, when the risk of hypoglycemia is significantly increased.

The following graph shows the limited information provided by four single-point measurements during a single day using a traditional
single-point finger stick device, compared to the data provided by our continuous sensor. The data presented in the graph is from a clinical trial we completed in 2003 with a continuous glucose monitoring system, where the patient was blinded to the
continuous glucose data. The continuous data indicates that, even with four finger sticks in one day, the patient’s blood glucose levels were above the target range of 80-140 mg/dl, or milligrams per deciliter, for a period of 13.5 hours.

Single Day Continuous Data





•Inconvenience.The process of measuring blood glucose levels with single-point finger stick devices can cause significant disruption in the
daily activities of people with diabetes and their families. Patients using single-point finger stick devices must stop whatever they are doing several times per day, self-inflict a painful prick and draw blood to measure blood glucose levels. To do
so, patients must always carry a fully-supplied kit that may include a spring-loaded needle, or lancet, disposable test strips, cleansing wipes, and the meter, and then safely dispose of the used supplies. This process is inconvenient and may cause
uneasiness in social situations.



•Difficulty of Use.To obtain a sample with single-point finger stick devices, patients generally prick one of their fingertips or, occasionally,
a forearm with a lancet. Patients then squeeze the area to produce the blood sample and another prick may be required if a sufficient volume of blood is not obtained the first time. The blood sample is then placed on a disposable test strip that is
inserted into a blood glucose meter. This task can be difficult for patients with decreased tactile sensation and visual acuity, which are common complications of diabetes.







•Pain.Although the fingertips are rich in blood flow and provide a good site to obtain a blood sample, they are also densely populated with
highly sensitive nerve endings. This makes the lancing and subsequent manipulation of the finger to draw blood painful. The pain and discomfort are compounded by the fact that fingers offer limited surface area, so tests are often performed on areas
that are sore from prior tests. Patients may also suffer pain when the finger prick site is disturbed during regular activities.

We believe a market opportunity exists for a glucose monitoring system that provides continuous glucose information, including trends, and that is convenient and easy to use. Several companies have
attempted to address the limitations of single-point finger stick devices by developing continuous glucose monitoring systems. To date, in addition to DexCom, we are aware of three other companies, Cygnus, Medtronic and Abbott, that have received
approval from the FDA to market continuous glucose monitors. We believe that one of the products, originally developed and marketed by Cygnus, is no longer actively marketed. In addition, we believe others are developing invasive and non-invasive
continuous glucose monitoring systems, including Bayer Corporation. Except for our SEVEN and SEVEN PLUS, we believe that none of the products that have received FDA approval are labeled for more than five days of use. We also believe that none of
the products that have received FDA approval are labeled for use as a replacement for single-point finger stick devices.

The DexCom
Solution

Our SEVEN PLUS system offers the following advantages to patients with diabetes:



•Improved Outcomes.Data published in a peer-reviewed article based on our approval support trial for our first system demonstrated that patients
using the system showed statistically significant improvements in maintaining their glucose levels within the target range when compared to patients relying solely on single-point finger stick measurements. Additional peer-review published data from
our approval support trial for the SEVEN demonstrated that patients with access to seven days of continuous glucose data statistically improved glucose control by further increasing their time spent with glucose levels in the target range, thereby
reducing time spent in both hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic ranges. Peer-review published data from our repeated use trial demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in hemoglobin A1c levels, a measure of the average amount of glucose in the
blood over the prior three months, in patients using our system compared to patients relying solely on single-point finger stick measurements. Finally, results of a major multicenter clinical trial funded by the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
demonstrated that patients with Type 1 diabetes who used continuous glucose monitoring devices to help manage their disease experienced significant improvements in glucose control.



•Access to Real-Time Values, Trend Information and Alerts.At the push of a button, patients can view their current glucose value, along with a
graphical display of one-, three-, six-, twelve- or twenty-four-hour trend information. Without continuous monitoring, the patient is often unaware if his or her glucose is rising, declining or remaining constant. Access to continuous real-time
glucose measurements provides patients with information that may aid in attaining better glucose control. Additionally, our SEVEN PLUS alerts patients when their glucose levels approach inappropriately high or low levels so that they may intervene.



•Intuitive Patient Interface.We have developed a patient interface that we believe is intuitive and easy to use. Our receiver’s ergonomic
design includes user-friendly buttons, an easy-to-read display, simple navigation tools, audible alerts and graphical display of trend information.



•Convenience and Comfort.Our SEVEN PLUS provides patients with the benefits of continuous monitoring, without having to perform finger stick
tests for every measurement. Additionally, the disposable sensor electrode that is inserted under the skin is a very thin wire, minimizing potential discomfort associated with inserting or wearing the disposable sensor. The external portion of the
sensor, including the transmitter, is small, has a low profile and is designed to be easily worn under







clothing. The wireless receiver is the size of a small cell phone and can be carried discreetly in a pocket or purse. We believe that convenience is an important factor in achieving widespread
adoption of a continuous glucose monitoring system.

While we believe the SEVEN PLUS offers these
advantages, patients may not perceive the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and may be unwilling to change their current treatment regimens. Furthermore, we do not expect that our SEVEN PLUS will appeal to all types of patients with
diabetes. The SEVEN PLUS prompts a patient to insert a disposable sensor electrode under their skin at least every seven days, although we are aware of reports from the field that some patients have been able to use sensors for periods longer than
seven days. Patients could find this process to be uncomfortable or inconvenient. Patients may be unwilling to insert a disposable sensor in their body, especially if their current diabetes management involves no more than two finger sticks per day.
Additionally, the SEVEN PLUS is not approved as a replacement device for single-point finger stick devices, must be calibrated initially using measurements from two single-point finger stick tests, and thereafter at least every 12 hours using
single-point finger stick tests, and may be more costly to use.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to become the leading provider of continuous glucose monitoring systems and related products to enable people with
diabetes to more effectively and conveniently manage their disease. We also seek to develop and commercialize products that integrate our continuous glucose monitoring technologies into the insulin pump delivery systems of Animas and Insulet,
respectively. In addition, we seek to design, develop and commercialize, in collaboration with Edwards, the GlucoClear, which is a blood-based in-vivo automated glucose monitoring system for use by healthcare providers in the hospital for the
treatment of both diabetic and non-diabetic patients. To achieve these objectives, we are pursuing the following business strategies:



•Establish our technology platform as the leading approach to continuous glucose monitoring and leverage our development expertise to rapidly bring
products to market.We have developed proprietary core technology and expertise that provides a broad platform for the development of innovative products for continuous glucose monitoring. We received approval from the FDA and commercialized our
first product in 2006. In 2007, we received approval and began commercializing our second generation system, the SEVEN, and on February 13, 2009, we received approval for our third generation system, the SEVEN PLUS, which is designed for up to
seven days of continuous use, and we began commercializing this product in the first quarter of 2009. We plan to continue to invest in the development of our technology platform and to obtain additional FDA approvals for our continuous glucose
monitoring systems for both the ambulatory and in-hospital markets as well as for our integrated insulin pump delivery systems. We expect to continue to provide performance improvements and introduce new products to establish and maintain a
leadership position in the market. In the future, we may develop our technology to support applications beyond glucose sensing.



•Drive the adoption of our ambulatory products through a direct sales and marketing effort.We have a small direct field sales force, which we
plan to modestly expand in 2011, to call on endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators who can educate and influence patient adoption of continuous glucose monitoring. We believe that focusing efforts on these participants is important
given the instrumental role they each play in the decision-making process for diabetes therapy. To complement our sales efforts, we employ clinical specialists who will educate and provide clinical support to patients, and have entered into
distribution arrangements that allow distributors to sell our SEVEN PLUS. We currently sell the SEVEN PLUS only in the United States and in portions of Europe and Israel, but plan to expand our sales elsewhere in the future.



•Drive additional adoption through technology integration partnerships.We have development agreements with Animas and Insulet to develop
products that will integrate our ambulatory product technology into the Animas conventional insulin pump and the Insulet OmniPod System PDM, as applicable, enabling the partner’s insulin pump to receive glucose readings from our
transmitter and







display this information on the pump’s screen. We believe patients who have adopted continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion, or CSII, are patients who more aggressively manage
their diabetes and may be more inclined to utilize our continuous glucose monitoring systems.



•Seek broad coverage policies and reimbursement for our products.Our approved products are not reimbursed by virtue of a national coverage
decision by Medicare. As of March 2011, the seven largest private third-party payors, in terms of the number of covered lives, have issued coverage policies for the category of continuous glucose monitoring devices. Many of these coverage policies,
however, are restrictive in nature and require the patient to comply with extensive documentation and other requirements to demonstrate medical necessity under the policy. We have negotiated contracted rates with six of those third-party payors for
the purchase of our products by their members. We currently employ in-house reimbursement expertise to assist patients in obtaining reimbursement from private third-party healthcare payors. We also maintain a field-based reimbursement team charged
with calling on third-party private payors to obtain coverage decisions and contracts.



•Expand the use of our products to other patient care settings and patient demographics.Our ambulatory products are approved for use at home and
in health care facilities by adults (18 years and older) with diabetes. We believe our sensor technology may be beneficial to pediatric diabetes patients and intend to seek approval for use in patients under the age of 18 in the future. We also
believe there is an unmet medical need for continuous glucose monitoring in the hospital setting. According to the ADA, diabetes related hospitalizations totaled 24.3 million days in 2007, an increase of 7.4 million days from 2002. In
addition, studies show that many non-diabetic hospital patients suffer episodes of hyperglycemia. As of 1998, as many as 1.5 million hospitalized patients in the United States had significant hyperglycemia without a history of diabetes. A study
of over 1,500 hospitalized patients, of which only 13% had a history of diabetes, concluded that intensive insulin therapy to maintain blood glucose levels reduced mortality among critically ill patients in the surgical intensive care unit and
improved patient outcomes. To address this patient population, we entered into an exclusive agreement with Edwards to develop jointly and market a specific product platform for the in-hospital glucose monitoring market, with an initial focus on the
development of an intravenous sensor specifically for the critical care market.



•Provide a high level of customer support, service and education.We support our sales and marketing efforts with a customer service program that
includes customer training and support. We provide direct technical support by telephone 24 hours a day to patients, endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators to promote safe and successful use of our products.



•Pursue the highest safety and quality levels for our products.We have established an organization that is highly focused on product quality and
patient safety. We have developed in-house engineering, quality assurance, clinical and regulatory expertise, and data analysis capabilities. Additionally, we seek to continue to establish credible and open relationships with regulatory bodies,
physician opinion leaders and scientific experts. These capabilities and relationships will assist us in designing products that we believe will meet or exceed expectations for reliable, safe performance.

Our Technology Platform

The development of a continuous glucose monitor requires successful coordination and execution of a wide variety of technology
disciplines, including biomaterials, membrane systems, electrochemistry, low power microelectronics, telemetry, software, algorithms, implant tools and sealed protective housings. We have developed in-house expertise in each of these disciplines. We
believe we have a broad technology platform that will support the development of multiple products for glucose monitoring.

Sensor
Technology

The key enabling technologies for our sensors include biomaterials, membrane systems, electrochemistry and
low power microelectronics. Our membrane technology consists of multiple polymer layers configured to







selectively allow the appropriate mix of glucose and oxygen to travel through the membrane and react with a glucose specific enzyme to create an extremely low level electrical signal, measured in
pico-amperes. This electrical signal is then translated into glucose values. We believe that the capability to measure very low levels of an electrical signal and to accurately translate those measurements into glucose values is also a unique and
distinguishing feature of our technology. We have also developed technology to allow sensitive electronics to be packaged in a small, fully-contained, lightweight sealed unit which minimizes inconvenience and discomfort for the patient.

Receiver and Transmitter Technology

Our ambulatory glucose monitoring systems use radiofrequency telemetry to wirelessly transmit information from the transmitter, which sits in a pod atop the sensor, to our receiver. We have developed the
technology for reliable transmission and reception and have consistently demonstrated a high rate of successful transmissions from sensor to receiver in our clinical trials. Our receiver then processes and displays real-time and trended glucose
values, and provides alerts. We have used our extensive database of continuous glucose data from our clinical trials to create software and algorithms for the display of data to patients.

In March 2009, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, established a bifurcated Medical Implant Communications System, or MICS,
band which requires device manufacturers whose products will operate in the main MICS band to either manufacture their devices using listen-before-transmit technology, or to transmit on a side band outside the main MICS band at lower power. Although
the SEVEN PLUS does not comply with existing MICS band listen-before-transmit requirements, the FCC granted a waiver to allow us to continue marketing and operating our SEVEN PLUS through March 2013, which we believe will provide adequate time
to design an alternative method of wireless communication.

Other Technology Applications

We have gained our technology expertise by learning to design implants that can withstand the rigors of functioning within the human body
for extended periods of time. In addition to the foreign body response, we have overcome other problems related to operating within the human body, such as device sealing, miniaturization, durability and sensor geometry. We believe that, over time,
the expertise gained in overcoming these problems may support the development of additional products beyond glucose monitoring.

Our
Products

Ambulatory Product Line: SEVEN PLUS







received CE Mark approval for the SEVEN system, and on September 30, 2009, we received CE Mark approval for the SEVEN PLUS, enabling commercialization of the SEVEN PLUS system in the
European Union and the countries in Asia and Latin America that recognize the CE Mark. We initiated a limited commercial launch in the European Union and Israel in 2008 and 2009 and have focused our international sales efforts on a portion of
European countries.

In-Hospital Product Line: GlucoClear

To address the in-hospital patient population, we entered into an exclusive agreement with Edwards to develop jointly and market a
specific product platform for the in-hospital glucose monitoring market, with an initial focus on the development of an intravenous sensor specifically for the critical care market. On October 30, 2009, we received CE Mark approval for our
first generation GlucoClear, a blood-based in-vivo automated glucose monitoring system for use by healthcare providers in the hospital, and are continuing to seek approval for this system from the FDA. In partnership with Edwards, we initiated a
very limited launch of the GlucoClear in Europe in 2009.

Products in Development

We are leveraging our technology platform to enhance the capabilities of our current products and to develop additional continuous glucose
monitoring products. We are continuing to seek approval for our next generation ambulatory system, and are responding to FDA’s requests for additional data in support of that application. We expect our next generation system will further
improve sensor reliability, comfort, stability and accuracy over the useful life of the sensor, and will be suited for large scale manufacturing. We also intend to seek approval for a pediatric indication (patients under 18 years of age) in the
future.

In 2008, we entered into two separate development agreements, one with Animas, a subsidiary of
Johnson & Johnson, and one with Insulet, to integrate our technology into the insulin pump product offerings of the respective partner, enabling the partner’s insulin pump to receive glucose readings from our transmitter and
display this information on the pump’s screen.

Continuous Glucose Monitoring Disposable Sensor & Reusable Transmitter

The disposable sensor
contained in the SEVEN PLUS is intended to function for up to seven days after which it may be replaced. After seven days, the patient simply removes the pod and attached sensor from the skin







and discards them while retaining the reusable transmitter. A new sensor and pod can then be inserted and used with the same receiver and transmitter for a subsequent seven day period. We are
aware of reports from the field, however, that patients have been able to use sensors for periods longer than seven days.

Handheld
Receiver

Our small handheld receiver is carried by the patient and wirelessly receives continuous glucose values from
the sensor. Proprietary algorithms and software, developed from our extensive database of continuous glucose data from clinical trials, are programmed into the receiver to process the glucose data from the sensor and display it on a user-friendly
graphical user interface. With a push of a button, the patient can access their current glucose value and one-, three-, six-, twelve- and twenty-four-hour trended data. Additionally, when glucose values are inappropriately high or low, the receiver
provides an audible alert or vibrates. The receiver is a self-contained, durable unit with a rechargeable battery.

Sales and Marketing

We use a variety of marketing tools to drive adoption, ensure continued usage and establish brand loyalty
for our continuous glucose monitoring systems by:



•creating awareness of the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and the advantages of our technology with endocrinologists, physicians, diabetes
educators and patients;



•providing strong and simple educational and training programs to healthcare providers and patients to ensure easy, safe and effective use of our
systems; and



•maintaining a readily-accessible telephone and web-based technical and customer support infrastructure, which includes clinicians, diabetes educators
and reimbursement specialists, to help referring physicians, diabetes educators and patients as necessary.

Our sales organization competes with the experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations of our competitors. We have
relatively limited experience developing and managing a direct sales organization and we may be unsuccessful in our attempt to manage and expand the sales force. Developing a direct sales organization is a difficult, expensive and time consuming
process. To be successful we must:



•recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales personnel;



•effectively train our sales personnel in the benefits of our products;







•establish and maintain successful sales, marketing, training and education programs that encourage endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators
to recommend our products to their patients; and



•manage geographically disbursed operations.

Competition

The market for blood glucose monitoring devices is intensely
competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions. Four companies, Roche Disetronic, a division of Roche Diagnostics; LifeScan, Inc., a division of Johnson & Johnson; the MediSense and TheraSense
divisions of Abbott Laboratories; and Bayer Corporation, currently account for substantially all of the worldwide sales of self-monitored glucose testing systems. These competitors’ products use a meter and disposable test strips to test blood
obtained by pricking the finger or, in some cases, the forearm. In addition, other companies are developing or marketing minimally invasive or noninvasive glucose testing devices and technologies that could compete with our devices. There are also a
number of academic and other institutions involved in various phases of our industry’s technology development.

Several
companies have attempted to address the limitations of single-point finger stick devices by developing continuous glucose monitoring systems. To date, in addition to DexCom, we are aware that three other companies, Cygnus, Medtronic, and Abbott,
have received approval from the FDA for continuous glucose monitors. We believe that one of the products, originally developed and marketed by Cygnus, is no longer actively marketed. Except for our SEVEN and SEVEN PLUS, we believe that none of the
products that have received FDA approval are labeled for more than five days of use. We also believe that none of the FDA approved products are labeled for use as a replacement for single-point finger stick devices.

A number of companies, including Bayer, are developing next generation real-time continuous glucose monitoring or sensing devices and
technologies as well as several other companies that are developing non-invasive continuous glucose monitoring products to measure the patient’s glucose level. The majority of these non-invasive technologies do not pierce the skin, but instead
typically analyze signatures reflected back from energy that has been directed into the patient’s skin, tissue or bodily fluids.

Many of our competitors are either publicly traded or are divisions of publicly-traded companies, and they enjoy several competitive advantages, including:



•significantly greater name recognition;



•established relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors;



•established distribution networks;



•additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive
advantage;



•greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products and marketing
approved products; and



•greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation.

As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively against these companies or their products.

We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include:



•safe, reliable and high quality performance of products;







•cost of products and eligibility for reimbursement;



•comfort and ease of use;



•effective sales, marketing and distribution;



•brand awareness and strong acceptance by healthcare professionals and patients;



•customer service and support and comprehensive education for patients and diabetes care providers;



•speed of product innovation and time to market;



•regulatory expertise; and



•technological leadership and superiority.

Manufacturing

There are technical challenges to
increasing manufacturing capacity, including equipment design and automation, material procurement, problems with production yields, and quality control and assurance. We have focused significant effort on continual improvement programs in our
manufacturing operations intended to improve quality, yields and throughput. We have made progress in manufacturing to enable us to supply adequate amounts of product to support our commercialization efforts, however there can be no assurances that
supply will not be constrained going forward. Additionally, the production of our continuous glucose monitoring systems must occur in a highly controlled and clean environment to minimize particles and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants.
Developing commercial-scale manufacturing facilities has and will continue to require the investment of substantial additional funds and the hiring and retaining of additional management, quality assurance, quality control and technical personnel
who have the necessary manufacturing experience. Manufacturing is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties described in detail in “Risk Factors” below.

We manufacture our SEVEN PLUS with components supplied by outside vendors and with parts manufactured by us internally. Key components that we manufacture internally include our wire-based sensors for our
SEVEN PLUS. The remaining components and assemblies are purchased from outside vendors. We then assemble, test, package and ship the finished SEVEN PLUS systems, which includes a reusable transmitter, a receiver, and disposable sensors.

We purchase certain components and materials from single sources due to quality considerations, costs or constraints resulting from
regulatory requirements. Currently, those single sources are On Semiconductor Corp, which produces the application specific integrated circuits used in our transmitters; DSM PTG, Inc., which manufactures certain polymers used to synthesize our
polymeric membranes for our sensors; Flextronics







International Ltd., which assembles the printed circuit boards for our transmitters and receivers; and The Tech Group, which produces injection molded components. In some cases, agreements with
these and other suppliers can be terminated by either party upon short notice. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers for our single-source components, especially after our products are commercialized, in part
because of the FDA approval process and because of the custom nature of the parts we designed. Any supply interruption from our vendors or failure to obtain alternate vendors for any of the components would limit our ability to manufacture our
systems, and could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Third Party Reimbursement

Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to
contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new medical devices, and, as a result, their coverage policies may be restrictive, or they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. In order to
obtain reimbursement arrangements, we may have to agree to a net sales price lower than the net sales price we might charge in other sales channels. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of
healthcare may limit our revenue. Our initial dependence on the commercial success of our SEVEN PLUS makes us particularly susceptible to any cost containment or reduction efforts. Accordingly, unless government and other third-party payors provide
adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products, our financial performance may be harmed.

In some foreign markets,
pricing and profitability of medical devices are subject to government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals for similar controls. Also, the trends toward managed healthcare in the United
States and proposed legislation intended to reduce the cost of government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products and may result in lower prices for our products or the exclusion of our
products from reimbursement programs.

Intellectual Property

Protection of our intellectual property is a strategic priority for our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and other intellectual property laws, trade secrets, nondisclosure
agreements and other measures to protect our proprietary rights. As of February 2011, we had obtained 57 issued U.S. patents, and had 255 additional U.S. patent applications pending. We believe it will take up to five years, and possibly longer, for
these pending U.S. patent applications to result in issued patents. As of February 2011, we had 18 international applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, 3 granted European patents, 49 European patent applications pending, 10 Japanese
patent applications pending, 12 registered U.S. trademarks, 6 pending U.S. trademark applications, 9 registered European trademarks, 2 pending European trademark applications, and 3 registered Japanese trademarks. Our patents begin expiring in 2017.







Together, our patents and patent applications seek to protect aspects of our core membrane
and sensor technologies, and our product concepts for continuous glucose monitoring. We believe that our patent position provides us with sufficient rights to develop, sell and protect our current and proposed commercial products. However, our
patent applications may not result in issued patents, and any patents that have issued or might issue may not protect our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, our patents may not be upheld. Any patents issued to us may be challenged by third
parties as being invalid or unenforceable, or third parties may independently develop similar or competing technology that avoids our patents. The steps we have taken may not prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in
foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States.

The medical device
industry in general, and the glucose testing sector of this industry in particular, are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on assertions of patent infringement. We are aware of numerous patents
issued to third parties that may relate to aspects of our business, including the design and manufacture of continuous glucose monitoring sensors and membranes, as well as methods for continuous glucose monitoring. The owners of each of these
patents could assert that the manufacture, use or sale of our continuous glucose monitoring systems infringes one or more claims of their patents. Each of these patents contains multiple claims, any one of which may be independently asserted against
us. There may be patents of which we are presently unaware that may relate to aspects of our technology that could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be
currently pending applications that are unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that may materially and adversely affect our business.

We are currently engaged in patent litigation with Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc., or Abbott, as further described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report. In connection with this
litigation each of Abbott’s seven patents that are the subject of the litigation have one or more associated reexamination requests in various stages at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the Patent Office. The court has granted a stay of
litigation pending completion of the reexamination process. The Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences within the Patent Office has recently rendered decisions on the appeals related to the reexaminations of two of the patents. We believe these
decisions are favorable to us; however, Abbott may still seek judicial review of the decisions. Four patents are currently undergoing reexamination at the Patent Office. Reexamination of another patent was completed in 2010 and we recently submitted
a subsequent reexamination request.

In addition, since 2008, Abbott has copied claims from certain of our applications, and
stated that it may seek to provoke an interference with certain of our pending applications in the Patent Office. If interference is declared and Abbott prevails in the interference, we would lose certain patent rights to the subject matter defined
in the interference. Also since 2008, Abbott has filed reexamination requests seeking to invalidate fifteen of our patents. The fifteen reexamination requests are in various stages at the Patent Office. We have filed responses with the Patent Office
seeking claim construction to differentiate certain claims from the prior art presented in the reexaminations, seeking to amend certain claims to overcome the prior art presented in the reexaminations, canceling claims and/or seeking to add new
claims. It is possible that the Patent Office may determine that some or all of the claims of our patents subject to the reexamination are invalid.

Although it is our position that Abbott’s assertions of infringement have no merit, and that the potential interference and reexamination requests have no merit, the outcome of the litigation and
interference or reexamination requests cannot be assessed currently with certainty. We may not successfully defend ourselves against the claims made by Abbott, and we may not prevail in the litigation. If Abbott were to successfully seek an
injunction, it could force us to stop making, using, selling or offering to sell our products. The technology at issue in our litigation with Abbott is currently used in our products, including our SEVEN PLUS, which is our only ambulatory product
that is approved for commercial sale, and the GlucoClear, our blood-based in-vivo automated glucose monitoring system for in-hospital use. If we were forced to stop selling these products either as a result of an unfavorable outcome in the
litigation or in connection with the grant of an injunction, our business and prospects would suffer. In addition, defending against this action, including any injunction action,







could have a number of harmful effects on our business regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. For example, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur significant costs in
defending the action.

Government Regulation

Our products are medical devices subject to extensive and ongoing regulation by the FDA and regulatory bodies in other
countries. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and the FDA’s implementing regulations govern product design and development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, pre-market clearance or approval, establishment registration and
product listing, product manufacturing, product labeling, product storage, advertising and promotion, product sales, distribution, recalls and field actions, servicing and post-market clinical surveillance.

FDA Regulation

Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to commercially distribute in the United States will require either prior 510(k)
clearance or prior approval from the FDA through the premarket approval (PMA) process. Our SEVEN PLUS system is classified by the FDA as a PMA medical device. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes. Devices requiring fewer
controls because they are deemed to pose lower risk are placed in Class I or II. Class I devices are subject to general controls such as labeling, pre-market notification, and adherence to the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. Class II
devices are subject to special controls such as performance standards, post-market surveillance, FDA guidelines, or particularized labeling, as well as general controls. Some Class I and Class II devices are exempted by regulation from the
pre-market notification (i.e., 510(k) clearance) requirement, and/or the requirement of compliance with substantially all of FDA’s manufacturing requirements, known as the QSR. Some devices are placed in Class III, which requires approval of a
PMA application, if they are deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or certain implantable devices, or to be “not substantially equivalent” either to a previously 510(k) cleared device or to a
“preamendment” Class III device in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which PMA applications have not been required.

Our SEVEN PLUS has been classified as a device requiring PMA approval. A PMA application must be supported by valid scientific evidence, which typically requires extensive data, including technical,
pre-clinical,







FDA review of a PMA application generally takes between one and three years, but may take
significantly longer. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a PMA application for many reasons, including:



•our systems may not be safe or effective to the FDA’s satisfaction;



•the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support approval;



•the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements; and



•changes in FDA approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional data.

If an FDA evaluation of a PMA application or manufacturing facilities is favorable, the FDA will either issue an approval letter, or
approvable letter, which usually contains a number of conditions which must be met in order to secure final approval of the PMA. When and if those conditions have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the FDA, the agency will issue a PMA approval
letter authorizing commercial marketing of a device, subject to the conditions of approval and the limitations established in the approval letter. If the FDA’s evaluation of a PMA application or manufacturing facilities is not favorable, the
FDA will deny approval of the PMA or issue a not approvable letter. The FDA may also determine that additional trials are necessary, in which case the PMA approval may be delayed for several months or years while the trials are conducted and data is
submitted in an amendment to the PMA. The PMA process can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy and a number of devices for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved by the FDA for marketing.

New PMA applications or PMA supplements may be required for modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling, device specifications,
materials or design of a device that is approved through the PMA process. PMA supplements often require submission of the same type of information as an initial PMA application, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support
any changes from the device covered by the approved PMA application and may or may not require as extensive clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel.

Clinical trials are almost always required to support a PMA application and are sometimes required for a 510(k) clearance. These trials generally require submission of an application for an
investigational device









•the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold;



•patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect;



•patients do not comply with trial protocols;



•patient follow-up is not at the rate we expect;



•patients experience adverse side effects;



•patients die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our products;



•institutional review boards and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject our trial protocol;



•third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the
clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA requirements;



•the company or third-party organizations do not perform data collection, monitoring and analysis in a timely or accurate manner or consistent with the
clinical trial protocol or investigational or statistical plans;



•third-party clinical investigators have significant financial interests related to the company or study that FDA deems to make the study results
unreliable, or the company or investigators fail to disclose such interests;



•regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or
suspend or terminate our clinical trials;



•changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions;



•the interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or efficacy; and



•the FDA concludes that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy.

After a device is approved and placed in commercial distribution, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include:



•establishment registration and device listing;







•QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, storage, supplier/contractor selection, complaint handling, documentation and
other quality assurance procedures;



•labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses or indications and impose other restrictions on
labeling, advertising and promotion;



•medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if a device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur;



•voluntary and mandatory device recalls to address problems when a device is defective and/or could be a risk to health; and



•corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA field corrections and product recalls or removals if
undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may present a risk to health.

Also, the FDA may require us to conduct post-market surveillance studies or order us to establish and maintain a system for tracking our products through the chain of distribution to the patient level.
The FDA and the Food and Drug Branch of the California Department of Health Services enforce regulatory requirements by conducting periodic, unannounced inspections and market surveillance. Inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of our
subcontractors.

Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including those applicable to the conduct of our
clinical trials, can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may lead to any of the following sanctions:



•warning letters or untitled letters that require corrective action;



•fines and civil penalties;



•unanticipated expenditures;



•delays in approving or refusal to approve our future continuous glucose monitoring systems or other products;



•FDA refusal to issue certificates to foreign governments needed to export our products for sale in other countries;



•suspension or withdrawal of FDA approval;



•product recall or seizure;



•interruption of production;



•operating restrictions;



•injunctions; and



•criminal prosecution.

We and our contract manufacturers, specification developers, and some suppliers of components or device accessories, are also required to manufacture our products in compliance with current Good
Manufacturing Practice, or GMP, requirements set forth in the QSR. The QSR requires a quality system for the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation and servicing of marketed devices, and includes extensive requirements with
respect to quality management and organization, device design, buildings, equipment, purchase and handling of components or services, production and process controls, packaging and labeling controls, device evaluation, distribution, installation,
complaint handling, servicing, and record keeping. The FDA evaluates compliance with the QSR through periodic unannounced inspections that may include the manufacturing facilities of our subcontractors. If the FDA believes we or any of our contract
manufacturers or regulated suppliers are not in compliance with these requirements, it can shut down our manufacturing







operations, require recall of our products, refuse to approve new marketing applications, institute legal proceedings to detain or seize products, enjoin future violations, or assess civil and
criminal penalties against us or our officers or other employees. Any such action by the FDA would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all applicable FDA regulations.

Fraud and Abuse Laws

The healthcare industry is subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some
instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid.

Anti-kickback Laws.The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving,
offering or providing remuneration directly or indirectly to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging of a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as
Medicare and Medicaid. The definition of “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including such items as gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, waiver of payments,
and providing anything at less than its fair market value. The Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) has issued regulations, commonly known as safe harbors, that set forth certain provisions which, if fully met, will assure
healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is
illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the HHS Office of Inspector
General.

The penalties for violating the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include imprisonment for up to five years, fines of up
to $25,000 per violation and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many states have adopted prohibitions similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for
healthcare services reimbursed by any source, not only by the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

Federal False Claims Act.The federal False Claims Act prohibits the knowing filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it must pay
three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by
any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals (known as “relators” or, more commonly, as “whistleblowers”) may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. In addition,
certain states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be
excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action.

HIPAA.The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The
healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from
government sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of
or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment.

Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign
government official,







government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA would include interactions with certain healthcare
professionals in many countries. Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and/or regulations.

International Regulation

International sales of medical devices are
subject to foreign government regulations, which may vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval in a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and the requirements may differ.
There is a trend towards harmonization of quality system standards among the European Union, United States, Canada and various other industrialized countries.

The primary regulatory environment in Europe is that of the European Union, which includes most of the major countries in Europe. Other countries, such as Switzerland, have voluntarily adopted laws and
regulations that mirror those of the European Union with respect to medical devices. The European Union has adopted numerous directives and standards regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling and adverse event reporting for
medical devices. Devices that comply with the requirements of a relevant directive will be entitled to bear the CE conformity marking, indicating that the device conforms to the essential requirements of the applicable directives and, accordingly,
can be commercially distributed throughout Europe. The method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third party assessment by a
“Notified Body.” This third party assessment may consist of an audit of the manufacturer’s quality system and specific testing of the manufacturer’s product. An assessment by a Notified Body of one country within the European
Union is required in order for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the European Union. Outside of the European Union, regulatory approval needs to be sought on a country-by-country basis in order for us to market our
products.

Environmental Regulation

Our research and development, clinical and manufacturing processes involve the handling of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and
local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous and biological materials and we incur expenses relating to compliance with these laws and regulations. If violations of environmental, health and safety laws
occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of remedial actions. These expenses or this liability could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition. We may violate environmental, health and safety laws in the
future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We are subject to
potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups. Changes to or restrictions on permitting requirements or processes, hazardous or biological material storage or handling might require an
unplanned capital investment or relocation. Failure to comply with new or existing laws or regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Advisory Boards and Consultants

We have relied upon the advice of experts
in the development and commercialization of our products. Since 2005, we have used experts in various disciplines on a consulting basis as needed to solve problems or accelerate development pathways. We will continue to engage advisors from the
academic, consultancy, governmental or other areas to assist us as necessary. We meet with our clinical advisory board on an annual basis.







Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had 405 full-time employees and 115 contract and temporary employees. Approximately 95 employees are engaged in research and development, clinical, regulatory and quality
assurance, 129 in manufacturing and 181 in selling, general and administrative functions. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced any employment-related work
stoppages and consider our employee relations to be good.

Available Information

Our Internet website address is www.dexcom.com. We provide free access to various reports that we file with or furnish to the SEC through
our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed or furnished. These reports include, but are not limited to, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
any amendments to those reports. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our website, or through www.sec.gov. Also available on our website are printable versions of DexCom’s Audit Committee charter,
Compensation Committee charter, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee charter, and Business Code of Conduct and Ethics. Information on our website does not constitute part of this annual report on Form 10-K or other report we file or
furnish with the SEC. Stockholders may request copies of these documents from:

DexCom, Inc.

6340 Sequence Drive

San Diego, CA 92121

(858) 200-0200



