ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

DexCom, Inc. is a medical device company focused on the design, development and commercialization of continuous glucose monitoring systems
for ambulatory use by people with diabetes and for use by healthcare providers in the hospital for the treatment of patients with and without diabetes. Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,”
the “company,” or “DexCom” refer to DexCom, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

Ambulatory
Product Line: SEVEN®PLUS, G4®and DexCom G4 PLATINUM®

We received approval from the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and commercialized our
first product in 2006. In 2007, we received approval and began commercializing our second generation system, the SEVEN. We no longer market or provide support for the SEVEN system. In 2009 we received approval for our third generation system, the
SEVEN PLUS, which is designed for up to seven days of continuous use, and we began commercializing this product in the first quarter of 2009. On June 14, 2012, we received Conformité Européene Marking (“CE Mark”)
approval for our fourth generation continuous glucose monitoring system, the DexCom G4®system, enabling
commercialization of the DexCom G4 system in the European Union and the countries in Asia and Latin America that recognize the CE Mark. On October 5, 2012, we received approval from the FDA for our fourth generation system, the DexCom G4
PLATINUM, which is designed for up to seven days of continuous use, and we began commercializing this product in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2012. “DexCom G4 system” and “DexCom G4 PLATINUM system” both refer to our fourth
generation continuous glucose monitoring technology, hereafter referenced as “G4 PLATINUM,” are substantially identical products, but are being marketed and sold under their respective brand names in their respective regulatory
jurisdictions. On February 14, 2013, we received CE Mark approval for a pediatric indication for our G4 PLATINUM.

As compared
to the SEVEN PLUS, the G4 PLATINUM offers:



•an improved sensor wire design that allows more scalable manufacturing;



•a smaller, sleeker receiver that is capable of displaying data in color;



•a new transmitter design that offers improved communication range with the receiver that allows for improved data capture; and



•additional user interface and algorithm enhancements that are intended to make the user experience more customizable and to make its glucose monitoring
function more accurate especially in the hypoglycemic range.







The approval of the G4 PLATINUM by the FDA allows for the use of the G4 PLATINUM by adults
with diabetes to detect trends and track glucose patterns, to aid in the detection of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia and to facilitate acute and long-term therapy adjustments. With the approval of the DexCom G4 system in Europe and DexCom G4
PLATINUM system in the United States, we plan to reduce marketing and sales efforts related to SEVEN PLUS.

In-Hospital Product Line: GlucoClear®

To address the in-hospital patient
population, we entered into an exclusive agreement with Edwards Lifesciences LLC (“Edwards”) to develop jointly and market a specific product platform for the in-hospital glucose monitoring market, with an initial focus on the development
of an intravenous sensor specifically for the critical care market. In October 2009, we received CE Mark approval for our first generation blood-based in-vivo automated glucose monitoring system, which we have branded the GlucoClear, for use by
healthcare providers in the hospital, and in January 2013 Edwards received CE Mark approval for the second generation system. In partnership with Edwards, we initiated a very limited launch of the GlucoClear system in Europe in 2009 and Edwards
plans to initiate another limited launch in Europe of the second generation GlucoClear during 2013.

SweetSpot

Through our acquisition of SweetSpot Diabetes Care, Inc. (“SweetSpot”) in 2012, we have a software platform that
enables our customers to aggregate and analyze data from certain diabetes devices and to share it with their healthcare providers. In November 2011, SweetSpot received 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market to clinics a data management service,
which helps healthcare providers and patients see, understand and use blood glucose meter data to diagnose and manage diabetes. SweetSpot’s data transfer service is registered with the FDA as a Medical Device Data System (“MDDS”) and
allows researchers to control the transfer of data from patient diabetes devices to research tools and databases according to their own research workflows. SweetSpot’s software provides an advanced cloud-based platform for uploading, processing
and delivering health data and transforms raw output from patient medical devices into useful information for healthcare providers, patients and researchers.

Background

From inception to 2006, we devoted substantially all of our
resources to start-up activities, raising capital and research and development, including product design, testing, manufacturing and clinical trials. Since 2006, we have devoted considerable resources to the commercialization of our ambulatory
continuous glucose monitoring systems, including the SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM, as well as the continued research and clinical development of our technology platform.

The International Diabetes Federation (“IDF”) estimates that in 2012, 371 million people around the world had diabetes, and the Centers for Disease Control (“CDC”) estimates that
in 2010, diabetes affected 25.8 million people in the United States, of which 7.0 million were undiagnosed. IDF estimates that by 2030, the worldwide incidence of people suffering from diabetes will reach 552 million. The increased
prevalence of diabetes is believed to be the result of an aging population, unhealthy diets and increasingly sedentary lifestyles. According to the CDC, diabetes was the seventh leading cause of death by disease in the United States during 2007, and
complications related to diabetes include heart disease, limb amputations, loss of kidney function and blindness. According to the IDF, there were more than 180,000 deaths attributable to diabetes in the United States and 4.8 million deaths
attributable to diabetes globally in 2012.

According to a CDC spokesman cited in aNew York Timesarticle from January
of 2006, one in every three children born in the United States in 2001 was expected to develop diabetes in their lifetimes, and every day in the United States, on average, 4,100 people would be diagnosed with diabetes, 230 people would undergo
amputations as a result of diabetes, 120 people would enter end-stage kidney disease programs and 55 people would lose their vision.







According to the American Diabetes Association (“ADA”) one in every ten health
care dollars was spent on treating diabetes in 2007, and the direct medical costs and indirect expenditures attributable to diabetes in the United States were an estimated $174 billion, an increase of $42 billion since 2002. Of the $174 billion in
overall expenses, the ADA estimated that approximately $89 billion were costs associated with chronic complications and excess general medical costs, $27 billion were costs associated with diabetes care and $58 billion were indirect medical costs.
The ADA also found that average medical expenditures among people with diagnosed diabetes were 2.3 times higher than for people without diabetes. According to the IDF, expenditures attributable to diabetes were an estimated $201 billion in the
United States and $465 billion globally in 2011, and $471 billion globally in 2012. The IDF estimates that expenditures attributable to diabetes will grow to $595 billion by 2030.

We believe continuous glucose monitoring has the potential to enable more people with diabetes to achieve and sustain tight glycemic
control. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (“DCCT”) demonstrated that improving blood glucose control lowers the risk of developing diabetes-related complications by up to 50%. The study also demonstrated that people with Type 1
diabetes achieved sustained benefits with intensive management. Yet, according to an article published in theJournal of the American Medical Association(“JAMA”) in 2004, less than 50% of diabetes patients were meeting ADA
standards for glucose control (A1c), and only 37% of people with diabetes were achieving their glycemic targets. The CDC estimated that as of 2006, 63.4% of all adults with diabetes were monitoring their blood glucose levels on a daily basis, and
that 86.7% of insulin-requiring patients with diabetes monitored daily.

Various clinical studies also demonstrate the
benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and that continuous glucose monitoring is equally effective in patients who administer insulin through multiple daily injections or through use of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion pumps. Results of a
Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (“JDRF”) study published in theNew England Journal of Medicinein 2008, and the extension phase of the study, published inDiabetes Carein 2009, demonstrated that continuous glucose
monitoring improved A1c levels and reduced incidence of hypoglycemia for patients over the age of 25 and for all patients of all ages who utilized continuous glucose monitoring regularly.

Our initial target market in the United States consists of an estimated 30% of people with Type 1 diabetes who utilize insulin pump
therapy and an estimated 50% of people with Type 1 diabetes who utilize multiple daily insulin injections. Our broader target market in the United States consists of our initial target market plus an estimated 20% of people with Type 1 diabetes
using conventional insulin therapy and the estimated 27% of people with Type 2 diabetes who require insulin. Although our initial focus is within the United States, our CE Mark approval also enables us to commercialize our system in those European,
Asian and Latin American countries that recognize the CE Mark.

We have built a direct sales organization to call on
endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators who can educate and influence patient adoption of continuous glucose monitoring. We believe that focusing efforts on these participants is important given the instrumental role they each play in
the decision-making process for diabetes therapy. To complement our direct sales efforts, we have entered into a limited number of distribution arrangements that allow distributors to sell our products. We believe our direct, highly specialized and
focused sales organization is sufficient for us to support our sales efforts.

We are leveraging our
technology platform to enhance the capabilities of our current products and to develop additional continuous glucose monitoring products. In 2008 and 2012, we entered into development agreements with Animas Corporation (“Animas”), a
subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, and with Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc. (“Tandem”). The purpose of each of these development relationships is to integrate our technology into the insulin pump product offerings of the respective
partner, enabling the partner’s insulin pump to receive glucose readings from our transmitter and display this information on the pump’s screen. The Animas insulin pump product augmented with our sensor technology has been branded the Vibe®, and received CE Mark







approval in May 2011, which allows Animas to market the Vibe in the countries that recognize CE Mark approvals. We also have previously entered into similar development agreements with Insulet
Corporation (“Insulet”) and Roche Diagnostics Operations, Inc. (“Roche”); however, we are not currently engaging in any development efforts with Insulet or Roche.

On October 5, 2012, we received FDA approval for the G4 PLATINUM system. On June 14, 2012, we received CE Mark approval for the
G4 system, enabling commercialization of the DexCom G4 system in the European Union and the countries in Asia and Latin America that recognize the CE Mark. Our G4 PLATINUM system features improved sensor reliability, stability and accuracy over the
useful life of the sensor, and is suitable for large scale manufacturing. We are seeking approval for a pediatric indication (people with diabetes under 18 years of age) and intend to seek a pregnancy indication (people who develop gestational
diabetes during pregnancy) for our product platform in the future.

On February 21, 2012, we entered into an Agreement
and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) to acquire SweetSpot. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, DexCom acquired SweetSpot and SweetSpot became a wholly owned subsidiary of DexCom (the “Merger”). The Merger was consummated on
March 6, 2012. SweetSpot is a healthcare-focused information technology company with a platform for uploading and processing data from diabetes devices to advance the treatment of diabetes. SweetSpot specializes in turning raw output from
patient devices into information for healthcare providers, patients and researchers. Through our acquisition of SweetSpot, we have a software platform that enables our customers to aggregate and analyze data from diabetes devices and share it with
their healthcare providers.

Our development timelines with each of our partners are highly dependent on our ability to
achieve clinical endpoints and regulatory requirements and to overcome technology challenges, and our development timelines may be delayed due to extended regulatory approval timelines, scheduling issues with patients and investigators, requests
from institutional review boards, sensor performance and manufacturing supply constraints, among other factors. In addition, support of these clinical trials requires significant resources from employees involved in the production of our products,
including research and development, manufacturing, quality assurance, and clinical and regulatory personnel. Even if our development and clinical trial efforts are successful, our products may not be approved by regulatory bodies, and if approved,
we may not achieve acceptance in the marketplace by physicians and patients.







We plan to develop future generations of technologies focused on improved performance and
convenience and that will enable intelligent insulin administration. Over the longer term, we plan to develop networked platforms with open architecture, connectivity and transmitters capable of communicating with other devices.

Market Opportunity

Diabetes

Diabetes is typically classified into two major groups: Type 1 and Type 2. We estimate that there are
approximately 1.3 million Type 1 diabetes patients in the United States. Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disorder that usually develops during childhood and is characterized by an absence of insulin, resulting from destruction of the insulin
producing cells of the pancreas. Individuals with Type 1 diabetes must rely on frequent insulin injections in order to regulate and maintain blood glucose levels. We estimate that there are approximately 24.5 million people with Type 2
diabetes in the United States. Type 2 diabetes is a metabolic disorder which results when the body is unable to produce sufficient amounts of insulin or becomes insulin resistant. Depending on the severity of Type 2 diabetes, individuals may require
diet and nutrition management, exercise, oral medications or insulin injections to regulate blood glucose levels. We estimate that approximately 3.6 million Type 2 patients must use insulin to manage their diabetes.

There are various subgroups of people with diabetes, including in-hospital patients, who present significant management challenges.
According to the ADA, diabetes related hospitalizations totaled 24.3 million days in 2007, an increase of 7.4 million days from 2002. Additionally, studies show that many hospital patients without diabetes suffer episodes of hyperglycemia.
According to aDiabetes Carearticle, as of 1998, as many as 1.5 million hospitalized patients had significant hyperglycemia without a history of diabetes. A November 2001 article in theNew England Journal of Medicinesummarized
a study of over 1,500 hospitalized patients, of which only 13% had diabetes, which concluded that intensive insulin therapy to maintain blood glucose levels within a target range reduced mortality among critically ill patients in the surgical
intensive care unit and improved patient outcomes.

According to the National Diabetes Education Program, about 75% of all
newly diagnosed cases of Type 1 diabetes in the United States occur in juveniles younger than 18 years of age. According to JDRF, the incidence of Type 1 diabetes among children under the age of 14 is estimated to increase by approximately 3%
annually worldwide. In addition, Type 2 diabetes is occurring with increasing frequency in young people. The increase in prevalence is related to an increase in obesity amongst children. According to the CDC, approximately one third of children and
adolescents in the United States were overweight or obese as of 2010, and that childhood obesity has more than doubled in children and tripled in adolescents in the past 30 years.







Importance of Glucose Monitoring

Blood glucose levels can be affected by many factors, including the carbohydrate and fat content of meals, exercise, stress, illness or
impending illness, hormonal releases, variability in insulin absorption and changes in the effects of insulin in the body. Given the many factors that affect blood glucose levels, maintaining glucose within a normal range is difficult, resulting in
frequent and unpredictable excursions above or below normal blood glucose levels. People with diabetes manage their blood glucose levels by administering insulin or ingesting carbohydrates throughout the day in order to maintain blood glucose within
normal ranges. People with diabetes frequently overcorrect and fluctuate between hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic states, often multiple times during the same day. As a result, many people with diabetes are routinely outside the normal blood glucose
range. People with diabetes are often unaware that their glucose levels are either too high or too low, and their inability to completely control blood glucose levels and the associated serious complications can be frustrating and, at times,
overwhelming.

In an attempt to maintain blood glucose levels within the normal range, people with diabetes must first measure
their blood glucose levels. Often after measuring their blood glucose levels, people with diabetes make therapeutic adjustments. As adjustments are made, additional blood glucose measurements may be necessary to gauge the individual’s response
to the adjustments. More frequent testing of blood glucose levels provides people with diabetes with information that can be used to better understand and manage their diabetes. The ADA recommends that most people with type 1 diabetes test their
blood glucose levels at least three or more times per day, and that significantly more frequent testing may be required to reach A1c targets safely without hypoglycemia.

Clinical outcomes data support the notion that an important component of effective diabetes management is frequent monitoring of blood glucose levels. The landmark 1993 DCCT consisting of patients with
Type 1 diabetes, and the 1998 UK Prospective Diabetes Study, consisting of patients with Type 2 diabetes, demonstrated that people with diabetes who intensely managed blood glucose levels delayed the onset and slowed the progression of
diabetes-related complications. In the DCCT, a major component of intensive management was monitoring blood glucose levels at least four times per day using conventional single-point blood glucose meters. The DCCT demonstrated that intensive
management reduced the risk of complications by 76% for eye disease, 60% for nerve disease and 50% for kidney disease. However, the DCCT also found that intensive management led to a three-fold increase in the frequency of hypoglycemic events. In
the December 2005 edition of theNew England Journal of Medicine, the authors of a peer-reviewed study concluded that intensive diabetes therapy has long-term beneficial effects on the risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with Type 1
diabetes. The study showed that intensive diabetes therapy reduced the risk of cardiovascular disease by 42% and the risk of non-fatal heart attack, stroke or death from cardiovascular disease by 57%.

Limitations of Existing Glucose Monitoring Products

Single-point finger stick devices are the most prevalent devices for glucose monitoring. These devices require taking a blood sample with a finger stick, placing a drop of blood on a test strip and
inserting the strip into a glucose meter that yields a single point in time blood glucose measurement. We believe that these devices suffer from several limitations, including:



•Limited Information.Even if people with diabetes test several times each day, each measurement represents a single blood glucose value at a
single point in time. Given the many factors that can affect blood glucose levels, excursions above and below the normal range often occur between these discrete measurement points in time. Because people with diabetes only have single-point data,
they do not gain sufficient information to indicate the direction or rate of change in their blood glucose levels. Without the ability to determine whether their blood glucose level is rising, falling or holding constant, and the rate at which their
blood glucose level is changing, the individual’s ability to effectively manage and maintain blood glucose levels within normal ranges is severely limited. Further, people with diabetes







cannot test themselves during sleep, when the risk of hypoglycemia is significantly increased. In addition, existing technology generally limits individuals’ ability to store their glucose
data in servers or systems independent of the blood glucose meter.

The following graph shows the limited
information provided by four single-point measurements during a single day using a traditional single-point finger stick device, compared to the data provided by our continuous sensor. The data presented in the graph is from a clinical trial we
completed in 2003 with a continuous glucose monitoring system, where the patient was blinded to the continuous glucose data. The continuous data indicates that, even with four finger sticks in one day, the patient’s blood glucose levels were
above the target range of 80-140 milligrams per deciliter (“mg/dl”) for a period of 13.5 hours.

Single Day
Continuous Data







•Inconvenience.The process of measuring blood glucose levels with single-point finger stick devices can cause significant disruption in the
daily activities of people with diabetes and their families. People with diabetes using single-point finger stick devices must stop whatever they are doing several times per day, self-inflict a painful prick and draw blood to measure blood glucose
levels. To do so, people with diabetes must always carry a fully supplied kit that may include a spring-loaded needle, or lancet, disposable test strips, cleansing wipes, and the meter, and then safely dispose of the used supplies. This process is
inconvenient and may cause uneasiness in social situations.



•Difficulty of Use.To obtain a sample with single-point finger stick devices, people with diabetes generally prick one of their fingertips or,
occasionally, a forearm with a lancet. They then squeeze the area to produce the blood sample and another prick may be required if a sufficient volume of blood is not obtained the first time. The blood sample is then placed on a disposable test
strip that is inserted into a blood glucose meter. This task can be difficult for individuals with decreased tactile sensation and visual acuity, which are common complications of diabetes.







•Pain.Although the fingertips are rich in blood flow and provide a good site to obtain a blood sample, they are also densely populated with
highly sensitive nerve endings. This makes the lancing and subsequent manipulation of the finger to draw blood painful. The pain and discomfort are compounded by the fact that fingers offer limited surface area, so tests are often performed on areas
that are sore from prior tests. People with diabetes may also suffer pain when the finger prick site is disturbed during regular activities.

We believe a market opportunity exists for a glucose monitoring system that provides continuous glucose information, including trends, and that is convenient and easy to use. Several companies have
attempted to address the limitations of single-point finger stick devices by developing continuous glucose monitoring systems. To date, in addition to DexCom, we are aware of three other companies, Cygnus, Inc. (“Cygnus”), Medtronic, Inc.
(“Medtronic”) and Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc. (“Abbott”), that have received approval from the FDA to market continuous glucose monitors. We believe that one of the products, originally developed and marketed by Cygnus, is no
longer actively marketed. Abbott has discontinued selling its Freestyle Navigator glucose monitoring system in the United States; however, Abbott recently filed a clinical study for home use of the Navigator II system in the United States and in
October 2012 they initiated a limited launch of the Navigator II system in Europe. In addition, we believe others are developing invasive and non-invasive continuous glucose monitoring systems. Except for our SEVEN, SEVEN PLUS, and G4 PLATINUM, we
believe that none of the products that have received FDA approval are labeled for more than five days of use. We also believe that none of the products that have received FDA approval are labeled for use as a replacement for single-point finger
stick devices.

The DexCom Solution

Our G4 PLATINUM system offers the following advantages to people with diabetes:



•Improved Outcomes.Data published in a peer-reviewed article based on our approval support trial for our first system demonstrated that patients
using the system showed statistically significant improvements in maintaining their glucose levels within the target range when compared to patients relying solely on single-point finger stick measurements. Additional peer-review published data from
our trial for the SEVEN demonstrated that patients with access to seven days of continuous glucose data statistically improved glucose control by further increasing their time spent with glucose levels in the target range, thereby reducing time
spent in both hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic ranges. Peer-review published data from our repeated use trial demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in hemoglobin A1c levels, a measure of the average amount of glucose in the blood over the
prior three months, in patients using our system compared to patients relying solely on single-point finger stick measurements. Finally, results of a major multicenter clinical trial funded by the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation demonstrated
that patients with Type 1 diabetes who used continuous glucose monitoring devices to help manage their disease experienced significant improvements in glucose control.



•Access to Real-Time Values, Trend Information and Alerts.At the push of a button, people with diabetes can view their current glucose value,
along with a graphical display of one-, three-, six-, twelve- or twenty-four-hour trend information. Without continuous monitoring, the individual is often unaware if his or her glucose is rising, declining or remaining constant. Access to
continuous real-time glucose measurements provides people with diabetes information that may aid in attaining better glucose control. Additionally, our SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM alert people with diabetes when their glucose levels approach
inappropriately high or low levels so that they may intervene.



•Intuitive User Interface.We have developed a user interface that we believe is intuitive and easy to use. The G4 PLATINUM receiver’s
compact design includes user-friendly buttons, an easy-to-read color display, simple navigation tools, audible alerts and graphical display of trend information.



•Convenience and Comfort.Our SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM provide people with diabetes with the benefits of continuous monitoring, without having
to perform finger stick tests for every







measurement. Additionally, the disposable sensor electrode that is inserted under the skin is a very thin wire, minimizing potential discomfort associated with inserting or wearing the disposable
sensor. The external portion of the sensor, including the transmitter, is small, has a low profile and is designed to be easily worn under clothing. The wireless receiver is the size of a small digital music player and can be carried discreetly in a
pocket or purse. We believe that convenience is an important factor in achieving widespread adoption of a continuous glucose monitoring system.

While we believe the SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM offer these advantages, people with diabetes may not perceive the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and may be unwilling to change their current
treatment regimens. Furthermore, we do not expect that our SEVEN PLUS or G4 PLATINUM will appeal to all types of people with diabetes. The SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM prompt a person with diabetes to insert a disposable sensor electrode under their
skin at least every seven days, although we are aware of reports from the field that some individuals have been able to use sensors for periods longer than seven days. People with diabetes could find this process to be uncomfortable or inconvenient,
and may be unwilling to insert a disposable sensor in their body, especially if their current diabetes management involves no more than two finger sticks per day. Additionally, the SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM are not approved as replacement devices
for single-point finger stick devices, must be calibrated initially using measurements from two single-point finger stick tests, and thereafter at least every 12 hours using single-point finger stick tests, and may be more costly to use.

Our Strategy

Our
objective is to become the leading provider of continuous glucose monitoring systems and related products to enable people with diabetes to more effectively and conveniently manage their disease. We also seek to develop and commercialize products
that integrate our continuous glucose monitoring technologies into the insulin pump delivery systems of Animas and Tandem, respectively. In addition, we designed, developed and seek to commercialize, in collaboration with Edwards, the GlucoClear,
which is a blood-based in-vivo automated glucose monitoring system for use by healthcare providers in the hospital for the treatment of patients with and without diabetes. To achieve these objectives, we are pursuing the following business
strategies:



•Establish our technology platform as the leading approach to continuous glucose monitoring and leverage our development expertise to rapidly bring
products to market.We have developed proprietary core technology and expertise that provides a broad platform for the development of innovative products for continuous glucose monitoring. We received approval from the FDA and commercialized our
first product in 2006. In 2007, we received approval and began commercializing our second generation system, the SEVEN. In 2009 we received approval for our third generation system, the SEVEN PLUS, which is designed for up to seven days of
continuous use, and we began commercializing this product in the first quarter of 2009. On October 5, 2012, we received approval from the FDA for our fourth generation system, the DexCom G4 PLATINUM, which is designed for up to seven days of
continuous use, and we began commercializing this product in the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2012. We plan to continue to invest in the development of our technology platform and to obtain additional FDA approvals for our continuous glucose
monitoring systems for both the ambulatory and in-hospital markets as well as for our integrated insulin pump delivery systems. We expect to continue to provide performance improvements and introduce new products to establish and maintain a
leadership position in the market. In the future, we may develop our technology to support applications beyond glucose sensing.



•Drive the adoption of our ambulatory products through a direct sales and marketing effort.We have a small direct field sales force to call on
endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators who can educate and influence patient adoption of continuous glucose monitoring. We believe that focusing efforts on these participants is important given the instrumental role they each play in
the decision-making process for diabetes therapy. To complement our sales efforts, we have entered into distribution arrangements that allow distributors to sell our SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM.







We currently sell the SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM only in the United States, Israel, Australia, New Zealand and in portions of Europe, but plan to expand our sales elsewhere in the future.



•Drive additional adoption through technology integration partnerships.We have development agreements with Animas and Tandem to develop
products that will integrate our ambulatory product technology into the Animas conventional insulin pump, and the Tandem t:slim system, as applicable, enabling the partner’s insulin pump to receive glucose readings from our transmitter and
display this information on the pump’s screen. We believe people with diabetes who have adopted continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (“CSII”) are individuals who more aggressively manage their diabetes and may be more
inclined to utilize our continuous glucose monitoring systems.



•Seek broad coverage policies and reimbursement for our products.Our approved products are not reimbursed by virtue of a national coverage
decision by Medicare. As of February 2013, the seven largest private third-party payors, in terms of the number of covered lives, have issued coverage policies for the category of continuous glucose monitoring devices. Many of these coverage
policies, however, are restrictive in nature and require the policy holder to comply with extensive documentation and other requirements to demonstrate medical necessity under the policy. We have negotiated contracted rates with six of those
third-party payors for the purchase of our products by their members. We currently employ in-house reimbursement expertise to assist people with diabetes in obtaining reimbursement from private third-party healthcare payors. We also maintain a
field-based reimbursement team charged with calling on third-party private payors to obtain coverage decisions and contracts.



•Drive increased utilization and adoption of our products through a cloud-based data repository platform.Through our acquisition of SweetSpot,
we have a software platform that enables people with diabetes to aggregate and analyze data from numerous diabetes devices and share the data with their healthcare providers. We believe that by producing reports detailing metrics such as the
individual’s glycemic variability that may be shared with physicians and caregivers will lead to better health outcomes, and we expect that as more people with diabetes adopt our system, that utilization of our sensors will increase.





•



Expand the use of our products to other patient care settings and patient demographics.



•Provide a high level of customer support, service and education.We support our sales and marketing efforts with a customer service program that
includes customer training and support. We provide direct technical support by telephone 24 hours a day to customers, endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators to promote safe and successful use of our products.



•Pursue the highest safety and quality levels for our products.We have established an organization that is highly focused on product quality and
customer safety. We have developed in-house







engineering, quality assurance, clinical and regulatory expertise, and data analysis capabilities. Additionally, we seek to continue to establish credible and open relationships with regulatory
bodies, physician opinion leaders and scientific experts. These capabilities and relationships will assist us in designing products that we believe will meet or exceed expectations for reliable, safe performance.

Our Technology Platform

The development of a continuous glucose monitor requires successful coordination and execution of a wide variety of technology
disciplines, including biomaterials, membrane systems, electrochemistry, low power microelectronics, telemetry, software, algorithms, implant tools and sealed protective housings. We have developed in-house expertise in each of these disciplines. We
believe we have a broad technology platform that will support the development of multiple products for glucose monitoring.

Sensor
Technology

The key enabling technologies for our sensors include biomaterials, membrane systems, electrochemistry and
low power microelectronics. Our membrane technology consists of multiple polymer layers configured to selectively allow the appropriate mix of glucose and oxygen to travel through the membrane and react with a glucose specific enzyme to create an
extremely low level electrical signal, measured in pico-amperes. This electrical signal is then translated into glucose values. We believe that the capability to measure very low levels of an electrical signal and to accurately translate those
measurements into glucose values is also a unique and distinguishing feature of our technology. We have also developed technology to allow sensitive electronics to be packaged in a small, fully contained, lightweight sealed unit that minimizes
inconvenience and discomfort for the user.

Receiver and Transmitter Technology

Our ambulatory glucose monitoring systems use radiofrequency telemetry to wirelessly transmit information from the transmitter, which sits
in a pod atop the sensor, to our receiver. We have developed the technology for reliable transmission and reception and have consistently demonstrated a high rate of successful transmissions from sensor to receiver in our clinical trials. Our
receiver then processes and displays real-time and trended glucose values, and provides alerts. We have used our extensive database of continuous glucose data from our clinical trials to create software and algorithms for the display of data to
customers.

In March 2009, the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) established a bifurcated Medical Implant
Communications System (“MICS”) band which requires device manufacturers whose products will operate in the main MICS band to either manufacture their devices using listen-before-transmit technology, or to transmit on a side band outside
the main MICS band at lower power. Although the SEVEN PLUS does not comply with existing MICS band listen-before-transmit requirements, the FCC granted a waiver to allow us to continue marketing and operating our SEVEN PLUS through August 2013.
Our G4 PLATINUM system does not operate within the MICS band and complies with all applicable requirements as set forth by the current FCC transmission standards.

Other Technology Applications

Additionally, we have gained our
technology expertise by learning to design implants that can withstand the rigors of functioning within the human body for extended periods of time. In addition to the foreign body response, we have overcome other problems related to operating
within the human body, such as device sealing, miniaturization, durability and sensor geometry. We believe that, over time, the expertise gained in overcoming these problems may support the development of additional products beyond glucose
monitoring.







Our Products

Ambulatory Product Line: SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM

In 2008, we received CE Mark approval for the SEVEN system. In 2009 we received CE Mark approval for the SEVEN PLUS,
enabling commercialization of the SEVEN PLUS system in the European Union and the countries in Asia and Latin America that recognize the CE Mark. We initiated a commercial launch in the European Union and Israel in 2008 and 2009 and have focused our
international sales efforts on a portion of European countries. On June 14, 2012, we received CE Mark approval for our fourth generation continuous glucose monitoring system, the DexCom G4®system, enabling commercialization of the DexCom G4 system in the European Union and the countries in Asia and Latin America that recognize the CE Mark.

In-Hospital Product Line: GlucoClear

To address the in-hospital patient population, we entered into an exclusive agreement with Edwards to develop jointly and market a specific product platform for the in-hospital glucose monitoring market,
with an initial focus on the development of an intravenous sensor specifically for the critical care market. In October 2009, we received CE Mark approval for our first generation GlucoClear, a blood-based in-vivo automated glucose monitoring
system for use by healthcare providers in the hospital, and in January 2013, Edwards received CE Mark approval for the second generation system. In partnership with Edwards, we initiated a very limited launch of the GlucoClear in Europe in 2009, and
Edwards plans to initiate another limited launch in Europe of the second generation GlucoClear during 2013.

Products in Development

We are leveraging our technology platform to enhance the capabilities of our current products and to develop
additional continuous glucose monitoring products. We plan to develop future generations of technologies focused on improved performance and convenience and that will enable intelligent insulin







administration. Over the longer term, we plan to develop networked platforms with open architecture, connectivity and transmitters capable of communicating with other devices. We are seeking
approval for a pediatric indication (patients under 18 years of age) and intend to seek a pregnancy indication (patients who develop gestational diabetes during pregnancy) in the future.

In 2008 and 2012, we entered into development agreements with Animas and Tandem. The purpose of each of these development relationships
is to integrate our technology into the insulin pump product offerings of the respective partner, enabling the partner’s insulin pump to receive glucose readings from our transmitter and display this information on the pump’s screen.

Continuous Glucose Monitoring Disposable Sensor & Reusable Transmitter

The disposable sensor contained in the SEVEN
PLUS and G4 PLATINUM is intended to function for up to seven days after which it may be replaced. After seven days, the user simply removes the pod and attached sensor from the skin and discards them while retaining the reusable transmitter. A new
sensor and pod can then be inserted and used with the same receiver and transmitter for a subsequent seven day period. We are aware of reports from the field, however, that customers have been able to use sensors for periods longer than seven days.

Handheld Receiver

Our small handheld receiver is carried by the user and wirelessly receives continuous glucose values from the sensor. Proprietary algorithms and software, developed from our extensive database of
continuous glucose data from clinical trials, are programmed into the receiver to process the glucose data from the sensor and display it on a user-friendly graphical user interface. With a push of a button, the user can access their current glucose
value and one-, three-, six-, twelve- and twenty-four-hour trended data. Additionally, when glucose values are inappropriately high or low, the receiver provides an audible alert or vibrates. The receiver is a self-contained, durable unit with a
rechargeable battery.

Sales and Marketing

We have built a direct sales organization to call on endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators who can educate and influence patient adoption of continuous glucose monitoring. We believe that
focusing efforts on these participants is important given the instrumental role they each play in the decision-making process for diabetes therapy. We employ approximately 71 direct sales personnel and continue to improve our sales and marketing
organization as necessary to support the commercialization of our products. We believe that







referrals by physicians and diabetes educators, together with self-referrals by customers, have driven and will continue to drive adoption of our SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM. We directly market
our products in the United States primarily to endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators. Although the number of diabetes patients is significant, the number of physicians and educators influencing these patients is relatively small. As of
2008, there were an estimated 4,000 clinical endocrinologists in the United States. As a result, we believe our direct, highly specialized and focused sales organization is sufficient for us to support our sales efforts for the foreseeable future.

We use a variety of marketing tools to drive adoption, ensure continued usage and establish brand loyalty for our continuous
glucose monitoring systems by:



•creating awareness of the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and the advantages of our technology with endocrinologists, physicians, diabetes
educators and people with diabetes;



•providing strong and simple educational and training programs to healthcare providers and people with diabetes to ensure easy, safe and effective use
of our systems; and



•maintaining a readily accessible telephone and web-based technical and customer support infrastructure, which includes clinicians, diabetes educators
and reimbursement specialists, to help referring physicians, diabetes educators and people with diabetes as necessary.

Our sales organization competes with the experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations of our competitors. We have relatively limited experience developing and managing a direct sales
organization and we may be unsuccessful in our attempt to manage and expand the sales force. Developing a direct sales organization is a difficult, expensive and time consuming process. To be successful we must:



•recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales personnel;



•effectively train our sales personnel in the benefits of our products;



•establish and maintain successful sales, marketing, training and education programs that encourage endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators
to recommend our products to their patients; and



•manage geographically disbursed operations.

Competition

The market for blood glucose monitoring devices is intensely
competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions. Four companies, Roche Disetronic, a division of Roche Diagnostics; LifeScan, Inc., a division of Johnson & Johnson; the MediSense and TheraSense
divisions of Abbott Laboratories; and Bayer Corporation, currently account for substantially all of the worldwide sales of self-monitored glucose testing systems. These competitors’ products use a meter and disposable test strips to test blood
obtained by pricking the finger or, in some cases, the forearm. In addition, other companies are developing or marketing minimally invasive or noninvasive glucose testing devices and technologies that could compete with our devices. There are also a
number of academic and other institutions involved in various phases of our industry’s technology development.

Several
companies have attempted to address the limitations of single-point finger stick devices by developing continuous glucose monitoring systems. To date, in addition to DexCom, we are aware that three other companies, Cygnus, Medtronic, and Abbott,
have received approval from the FDA for continuous glucose monitors. We believe that one of the products, originally developed and marketed by Cygnus, is no longer actively marketed. Abbott has discontinued selling its Freestyle Navigator glucose
monitoring system in the United States; however, Abbott recently filed a clinical study for home use of the Navigator II system in the United States and in October 2012 they initiated a limited launch of the Navigator II system in Europe. Except for
our SEVEN, SEVEN PLUS, and G4 PLATINUM, we believe that none of the products that have received FDA approval are labeled for more than five days of use. We also believe that none of the FDA approved products are labeled for use as a replacement for
single-point finger stick devices.







A number of companies are developing next generation real-time continuous glucose monitoring
or sensing devices and technologies as well as several other companies that are developing non-invasive continuous glucose monitoring products to measure the patient’s glucose level. The majority of these non-invasive technologies do not pierce
the skin, but instead typically analyze signatures reflected back from energy that has been directed into the patient’s skin, tissue or bodily fluids.

Many of our competitors are either publicly traded or are divisions of publicly traded companies, and they enjoy several competitive advantages, including:



•significantly greater name recognition;



•established relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors;



•established distribution networks;



•additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive
advantage;



•greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval for products and marketing
approved products; and



•greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation.

As a result, we may be unable to compete effectively against these companies or their products.

We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include:



•safe, reliable and high quality performance of products;



•cost of products and eligibility for reimbursement;



•comfort and ease of use;



•effective sales, marketing and distribution;



•brand awareness and strong acceptance by healthcare professionals and people with diabetes;



•customer service and support and comprehensive education for people with diabetes and diabetes care providers;



•speed of product innovation and time to market;



•regulatory expertise; and



•technological leadership and superiority.

Manufacturing

We currently manufacture our devices at our headquarters in
San Diego, California. These facilities have more than 13,000 square feet of laboratory space and approximately 10,000 square feet of controlled environment rooms. In July 2012, the FDA completed an inspection of our facilities, and did not identify
any observations or require any other types of corrective action.

There are technical challenges to increasing manufacturing
capacity, including equipment design and automation, material procurement, problems with production yields, and quality control and assurance. We have focused significant effort on continual improvement programs in our manufacturing operations
intended to improve quality, yields and throughput. We have made progress in manufacturing to enable us to supply adequate amounts of product to support our commercialization efforts, however there can be no assurances that supply will not be
constrained going forward. Additionally, the production of our continuous glucose monitoring systems must occur in a highly controlled and clean environment to minimize particles and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants. Developing
commercial-scale manufacturing facilities has and will continue to







require the investment of substantial additional funds and the hiring and retaining of additional management, quality assurance, quality control and technical personnel who have the necessary
manufacturing experience. Manufacturing is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties described in detail in “Risk Factors” below.

We manufacture our SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM with components supplied by outside vendors and with parts manufactured by us internally. Key components that we manufacture internally include our wire-based
sensors for our SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM. The remaining components and assemblies are purchased from outside vendors. We then assemble, test, package and ship the finished SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM systems, which include a reusable transmitter, a
receiver, and disposable sensors.

We purchase certain components and materials from single sources due to quality
considerations, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. Currently, those single sources are OnCore Manufacturing Services, which manufactures and supplies circuit boards for our receiver and transmitter; ON Semiconductor Corp,
which produces the application specific integrated circuits used in our transmitters; DSM PTG, Inc., which manufactures certain polymers used to synthesize our polymeric membranes for our sensors; and The Tech Group, which produces injection molded
components. In some cases, agreements with these and other suppliers can be terminated by either party upon short notice. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers for our single-source components, especially after
our products are commercialized, in part because of the FDA approval process and because of the custom nature of the parts we designed. Any supply interruption from our vendors or failure to obtain alternate vendors for any of the components would
limit our ability to manufacture our systems, and could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Third-Party Reimbursement

Medicare, Medicaid, health
maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new medical devices, and, as a result, their coverage policies may be
restrictive, or they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. In order to obtain reimbursement arrangements, we may have to agree to a net sales price lower than the net sales price we might charge in other sales channels. Our
revenue may be limited by the continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through







various increasingly sophisticated means, such as requiring prospective reimbursement and second opinions, purchasing in groups, or redesigning benefits. Our initial dependence on the commercial
success of our SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM makes us particularly susceptible to any cost containment or reduction efforts. Accordingly, unless government and other third-party payors provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products, our
financial performance may be harmed.

In some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of medical devices are subject to
government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals for similar controls. Also, the trends toward managed healthcare in the United States and proposed legislation intended to reduce the cost
of government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products and may result in lower prices for our products or the exclusion of our products from reimbursement programs.

Intellectual Property

Protection of our intellectual property is a strategic priority for our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and other
intellectual property laws, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and other measures to protect our proprietary rights. As of February 2013, we had obtained 141 issued U.S. patents, and had 239 additional U.S. patent applications pending. We
believe it will take up to five years, and possibly longer, for these pending U.S. patent applications to result in issued patents. As of February 2013, we have 7 international applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, 6 granted
European patents, 61 European patent applications pending, 7 granted Japanese patents, 4 Japanese patent applications pending, 14 registered U.S. trademarks, 14 pending U.S. trademark applications, 12 registered European trademarks, 4 pending
European trademark applications, 3 registered Japanese trademarks, and one pending trademark application in each of Brazil and India. Our patents begin expiring in 2017.

Together, our patents and patent applications seek to protect aspects of our core membrane and sensor technologies, and our product concepts for continuous glucose monitoring. We believe that our patent
position provides us with sufficient rights to develop, sell and protect our current and proposed commercial products. However, our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and any patents that have been issued or might be issued may
not protect our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, our patents may not be upheld. Any patents issued to us may be challenged by third parties as being invalid or unenforceable, or third parties may independently develop similar or competing
technology that avoids our patents. The steps we have taken may not prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States.

The medical device industry in general, and the glucose testing sector of this industry in particular, are characterized by
the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on assertions of patent infringement. We are aware of numerous patents issued to third parties that may relate to aspects of our business, including the design and manufacture
of continuous glucose monitoring sensors and membranes, as well as methods for continuous glucose monitoring. The owners of each of these patents could assert that the manufacture, use or sale of our continuous glucose monitoring systems infringes
one or more claims of their patents. Each of these patents contains multiple claims, any one of which may be independently asserted against us. There may be patents of which we are presently unaware that may relate to aspects of our technology that
could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications that are unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that may
materially and adversely affect our business.

We are currently engaged in patent litigation with Abbott as further described
in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report. In connection with this litigation four of Abbott’s seven patents that are the subject of the litigation have one or more associated reexamination requests in various stages at the
Patent Office. The Patent Office’s decisions in the reexamination for two of these four patents were appealed to the Federal Circuit by Abbott. The Federal Circuit issued a decision recently vacating-in-part the Patent Office’s decisions







and remanding the case back to the Patent Office for further proceedings. With respect to the remaining three of Abbott’s patents that are subject to the litigation, a Certificate of
Reexamination issued for one of the patents in June 2012. We filed an inter partes reexamination request for this patent in September 2012, and the Patent Office has issued a final decision denying our request. Another patent has received a Notice
of Intent to Issue a Certificate of Reexamination in September 2012. For the third patent, the Patent Office issued an Advisory Action in September 2012, and Abbott filed an Appeal Brief in January 2013. In many of these reexaminations, Abbott has
filed responses with the Patent Office seeking claim construction to differentiate certain claims from the prior art we have presented, seeking to amend certain claims to overcome the prior art we have presented, canceling claims and/or seeking to
add new claims.

In addition, since 2008, Abbott has copied claims from certain of our applications, and stated that it may
seek to provoke an interference with certain of our pending applications in the Patent Office. If interference is declared and Abbott prevails in the interference, we would lose certain patent rights to the subject matter defined in the
interference. Also since 2008, Abbott has filed 38 reexamination requests seeking to invalidate 31 of our patents. Seven of the 38 reexamination requests are in various stages at the Patent Office, and 30 have been issued a Certificate of
Reexamination; one of the Abbott Reexamination Requests was refused by the Patent Office. We have filed responses with the Patent Office seeking claim construction to differentiate certain claims from the prior art presented in the reexaminations,
seeking to amend certain claims to overcome the prior art presented in the reexaminations, canceling claims and/or seeking to add new claims. It is possible that the Patent Office may determine that some or all of the claims of our patents subject
to the reexamination are invalid. Additionally, Abbott has filed an Opposition to four of our European patents.

Further, we
requested reexamination of three other Abbott patents that are not involved in the current patent infringement lawsuit. In April 2012, one of Abbott’s patents received a Certificate of Reexamination. In October 2012, another Abbott patent
received a Certificate of Reexamination. An inter partes reexamination request was recently filed on the third Abbott patent, which is awaiting final decision from the Patent Office.

Although it is our position that Abbott’s assertions of infringement have no merit, and that the potential interference,
reexamination requests and opposition requests have no merit, the outcome of the litigation, and interference, reexamination or opposition requests cannot be assessed currently with certainty. We may not successfully defend ourselves against the
claims made by Abbott, and we may not prevail in the litigation. If Abbott were to successfully seek an injunction, it could force us to stop making, using, selling or offering to sell our products. The technology at issue in our litigation with
Abbott is currently used in our products, including our SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM, and the GlucoClear. If we were forced to stop selling these products either as a result of an unfavorable outcome in the litigation or in connection with the grant
of an injunction, our business and prospects would suffer. In addition, defending against this action, including any injunction action, could have a number of harmful effects on our business regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. For
example, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur significant costs in defending the action.







agreements on commencement of their employment or engagement. Agreements with our employees also forbid them from bringing the proprietary rights of third parties to us. We also generally require
confidentiality or material transfer agreements from third parties that receive our confidential data or materials. We cannot provide any assurance that employees and third parties will abide by the confidentiality or assignment terms of these
agreements. Despite measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties might copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.

Government Regulation

Our products are medical devices subject to
extensive and ongoing regulation by the FDA and regulatory bodies in other countries. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) and the FDA’s implementing regulations govern product design and development, pre-clinical and
clinical testing, pre-market clearance or approval, establishment registration and product listing, product manufacturing, product labeling, product storage, advertising and promotion, product sales, distribution, recalls and field actions,
servicing and post-market clinical surveillance.

FDA Regulation

Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to commercially distribute in the United States will require either prior 510(k)
clearance or prior approval from the FDA through the premarket approval (“PMA”) process. Our SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM systems are classified by the FDA as PMA medical devices. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes.
Devices requiring fewer controls because they are deemed to pose lower risk are placed in Class I or II. Class I devices are subject to general controls such as labeling, pre-market notification, and adherence to the FDA’s Quality System
Regulation (“QSR”). Class II devices are subject to special controls such as performance standards, post-market surveillance, FDA guidelines, or particularized labeling, as well as general controls. Some Class I and Class II devices are
exempted by regulation from the pre-market notification (i.e., 510(k) clearance) requirement, and/or the requirement of compliance with substantially all of FDA’s manufacturing requirements, known as the QSR. Some devices are placed in Class
III, which requires approval of a PMA application, if they are deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or certain implantable devices, or to be “not substantially equivalent” either to a
previously 510(k) cleared device or to a “preamendment” Class III device in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which PMA applications have not been required.

Our SEVEN PLUS and G4 PLATINUM have been classified as devices requiring PMA approval. A PMA application must be supported by valid
scientific evidence, which typically requires extensive data, including technical, pre-clinical, clinical, manufacturing and labeling data, to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the device. A PMA application also
must include a complete description of the device and its components, a detailed description of the methods, facilities and controls used to manufacture the device, and proposed labeling. After a PMA application is submitted and found to be
sufficiently complete, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the submitted information. During this review period, the FDA may request additional information or clarification of information already provided. Also during the review period, an advisory
panel of experts from outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA. In addition, the FDA generally will conduct a pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility to evaluate
compliance with QSR, which requires manufacturers to implement and follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures. In July 2012, the FDA completed an inspection of our facilities, and did not identify any
observations or require any other types of corrective action.

FDA review of a PMA application generally takes between one and
three years, but may take significantly longer. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a PMA application for many reasons, including:



•our systems may not be safe or effective to the FDA’s satisfaction;



•the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support approval;







•the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements; and



•changes in FDA approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional data.

If an FDA evaluation of a PMA application or manufacturing facilities is favorable, the FDA will either issue an approval letter, or
approvable letter, which usually contains a number of conditions which must be met in order to secure final approval of the PMA. When and if those conditions have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the FDA, the agency will issue a PMA approval
letter authorizing commercial marketing of a device, subject to the conditions of approval and the limitations established in the approval letter. If the FDA’s evaluation of a PMA application or manufacturing facilities is not favorable, the
FDA will deny approval of the PMA or issue a not approvable letter. The FDA may also determine that additional trials are necessary, in which case the PMA approval may be delayed for several months or years while the trials are conducted and data is
submitted in an amendment to the PMA. The PMA process can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy and a number of devices for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved by the FDA for marketing.

New PMA applications or PMA supplements may be required for modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling, device specifications,
materials or design of a device that is approved through the PMA process. PMA supplements often require submission of the same type of information as an initial PMA application, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support
any changes from the device covered by the approved PMA application and may or may not require as extensive clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel.



•the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold;



•patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect;



•patients do not comply with trial protocols;



•patient follow-up is not at the rate we expect;



•patients experience adverse side effects;



•patients die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our products;



•institutional review boards and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject our trial protocol;







•third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the
clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA requirements;



•the company or third-party organizations do not perform data collection, monitoring and analysis in a timely or accurate manner or consistent with the
clinical trial protocol or investigational or statistical plans;



•third-party clinical investigators have significant financial interests related to the company or study that FDA deems to make the study results
unreliable, or the company or investigators fail to disclose such interests;



•regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or
suspend or terminate our clinical trials;



•changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions;



•the interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or efficacy; and



•the FDA concludes that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy.

After a device is approved and placed in commercial distribution, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include:



•establishment registration and device listing;



•QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, storage, supplier/contractor selection, complaint handling, documentation and
other quality assurance procedures;



•labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses or indications and impose other restrictions on
labeling, advertising and promotion;



•medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if a device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur;



•voluntary and mandatory device recalls to address problems when a device is defective and/or could be a risk to health; and



•corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA field corrections and product recalls or removals if
undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may present a risk to health.

Also, the FDA may require us to conduct post-market surveillance studies or order us to establish and maintain a system for tracking our products through the chain of distribution to the patient level.
The FDA and the Food and Drug Branch of the California Department of Health Services enforce regulatory requirements by conducting periodic, unannounced inspections and market surveillance. Inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of our
subcontractors.

Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including those applicable to the conduct of our
clinical trials, can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may lead to any of the following sanctions:



•warning letters or untitled letters that require corrective action;



•fines and civil penalties;



•unanticipated expenditures;



•delays in approving or refusal to approve our future continuous glucose monitoring systems or other products;







•FDA refusal to issue certificates to foreign governments needed to export our products for sale in other countries;



•suspension or withdrawal of FDA approval;



•product recall or seizure;



•interruption of production;



•operating restrictions;



•injunctions; and



•criminal prosecution.

We and our contract manufacturers, specification developers, and some suppliers of components or device accessories, are also required to manufacture our products in compliance with current Good
Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) requirements set forth in the QSR. The QSR requires a quality system for the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation and servicing of marketed devices, and includes extensive
requirements with respect to quality management and organization, device design, buildings, equipment, purchase and handling of components or services, production and process controls, packaging and labeling controls, device evaluation,
distribution, installation, complaint handling, servicing, and record keeping. The FDA evaluates compliance with the QSR through periodic unannounced inspections that may include the manufacturing facilities of our subcontractors. If the FDA
believes we or any of our contract manufacturers or regulated suppliers are not in compliance with these requirements, it can shut down our manufacturing operations, require recall of our products, refuse to approve new marketing applications,
institute legal proceedings to detain or seize products, enjoin future violations, or assess civil and criminal penalties against us or our officers or other employees. Any such action by the FDA would have a material adverse effect on our business.
We may be unable to comply with all applicable FDA regulations.

Fraud and Abuse Laws

The healthcare industry is subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. Violations of these laws
are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid.

Anti-kickback Laws.The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving,
offering or providing remuneration directly or indirectly to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging of a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as
Medicare and Medicaid. The definition of “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including such items as gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, waiver of payments,
and providing anything at less than its fair market value. The Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) has issued regulations, commonly known as safe harbors, that set forth certain provisions which, if fully met, will assure
healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is
illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the HHS Office of Inspector
General.

The penalties for violating the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include imprisonment for up to five years, fines of up
to $25,000 per violation and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many states have adopted prohibitions similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for
healthcare services reimbursed by any source, not only by the Medicare and Medicaid programs.







Federal False Claims Act.The federal False Claims Act prohibits the knowing
filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it must pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government,
plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such
individuals (known as “relators” or, more commonly, as “whistleblowers”) may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. In addition, certain states have enacted laws modeled after the
federal False Claims Act. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or
state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action.

HIPAA.The Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to
defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and
willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute
is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment.

Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(“FCPA”) prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to
obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA would include interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign
laws, rules and/or regulations.

International Regulation

International sales of medical devices are subject to foreign government regulations, which may vary substantially from country to
country. The time required to obtain approval in a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and the requirements may differ. There is a trend towards harmonization of quality system standards among the European
Union, United States, Canada and various other industrialized countries.

The primary regulatory body in Europe is that of the
European Union, which includes most of the major countries in Europe. Other countries, such as Switzerland, have voluntarily adopted laws and regulations that mirror those of the European Union with respect to medical devices. The European Union has
adopted numerous directives and standards regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling and adverse event reporting for medical devices. Devices that comply with the requirements of a relevant directive will be entitled to bear the
CE conformity marking, indicating that the device conforms to the essential requirements of the applicable directives and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout Europe. The method of assessing conformity varies depending on the
class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third party assessment by a “Notified Body.” This third-party assessment may consist of an audit of the manufacturer’s quality
system and specific testing of the manufacturer’s product. An assessment by a Notified Body of one country within the European Union is required in order for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the European Union.
Outside of the European Union, regulatory approval needs to be sought on a country-by-country basis in order for us to market our products.

Environmental Regulation

Our research and development, clinical and manufacturing processes involve the handling of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and
local laws and







regulations governing the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous and biological materials and we incur expenses relating to compliance with these laws and regulations. If violations of
environmental, health and safety laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of remedial actions. These expenses or this liability could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition. We may violate
environmental, health and safety laws in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties
associated with violations. We are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups. Changes to or restrictions on permitting requirements or processes, hazardous or biological
material storage or handling might require an unplanned capital investment or relocation. Failure to comply with new or existing laws or regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Advisory Boards and Consultants

We have relied upon the advice of experts in the development and commercialization of our products. Since 2005, we have used experts in various disciplines on a consulting basis as needed to solve
problems or accelerate development pathways. We will continue to engage advisors from the academic, consultancy, governmental or other areas to assist us as necessary. We meet with our clinical advisory board on an annual basis.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2012, we had 565 full-time employees and 133 contract and temporary employees. Approximately 109 full-time employees are engaged in research and development, clinical, regulatory and quality assurance, 219 in manufacturing and 237
in selling, general and administrative functions. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced any employment-related work stoppages and consider our employee
relations to be good.

Available Information

Our Internet website address is www.dexcom.com. We provide free access to various reports that we file with or furnish to the SEC through our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have
been filed or furnished. These reports include, but are not limited to, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports. Our SEC reports can be accessed
through the investor relations section of our website, or through www.sec.gov. Also available on our website are printable versions of DexCom’s Audit Committee charter, Compensation Committee charter, Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee charter, and Business Code of Conduct and Ethics. Information on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other report we file or furnish with the SEC. Stockholders may request copies of these
documents from:

DexCom, Inc.

6340 Sequence Drive

San Diego, CA 92121

(858) 200-0200







