
10-K




                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                               Washington, D.C.  20549
                                      FORM 10-K
     (Mark One)
     [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES 
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)     For the fiscal year ended
          December 31, 1997

     [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)  For the transition period from
          ____ to ____

                            Commission file number 1-4717

                        KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
                 (Exact name of Company as specified in its charter)

                Delaware                                     44-0663509
     (State or other jurisdiction of                     (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)                      Identification No.)

      114 West 11th Street, Kansas City, Missouri               64105
         (Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)

           Company's telephone number, including area code (816) 983-1303

            Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:
                                                      Name of each exchange on
                 Title of each class                      which registered
     Preferred Stock, Par Value $25 Per                New York Stock Exchange
     Share, 4%, Noncumulative

     Common Stock, $.01 Per Share Par Value            New York Stock Exchange

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:  None

     Indicate by check mark whether the Company (1) has filed all reports
     required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange 
     Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period 
     that the Company was required to file such reports), and (2) has been 
     subject to such filing requirements for the past 
     90 days.    YES [X]     NO [ ]   
       
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
     405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
     to the best of Company's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
     statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
     amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

     Company Stock.  The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock
     Exchange under the symbol "KSU."  As of March 9, 1998, 108,828,011 shares
     of common stock and 242,170 shares of voting preferred stock were
     outstanding.  On such date, the aggregate market value of the voting and
     non-voting common and preferred stock was $4,160,168,188 (amount computed
     based on closing prices of preferred and common stock on New York Stock
     Exchange).

     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
     Portions of the following documents are incorporated herein by reference
     into Part of the Form 10-K as indicated:

     Document                                          Part of Form 10-K into
                                                         which incorporated

     Company's Definitive Proxy Statement for the 1998       Part III
     Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed
     no later than 120 days after December 31, 1997

                        KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
                             1997 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

                                  
                                                                  Page


                                       PART I

     Item 1.     Business.............................................  1
     Item 2.     Properties...........................................  4
     Item 3.     Legal Proceedings....................................  8
     Item 4.     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..  8
                 Executive Officers of the Company...................   8


                                       PART II

     Item 5.     Market for the Company's Common Stock and
                   Related Stockholder Matters........................ 10
     Item 6.     Selected Financial Data.............................. 11
     Item 7.     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                   Condition and Results of Operations................ 13
     Item 7(a)   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About 
                   Market Risk........................................ 47
     Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.......... 48
     Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
                   Accounting and Financial Disclosure................ 90


                                      PART III

     Item 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Company...... 91
     Item 11.    Executive Compensation............................... 91
     Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
                   Management......................................... 91
     Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions....... 91


                                       PART IV

     Item 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
                   on Form 8-K........................................ 92
                 Signatures........................................... 97






                                         ii






     
                                       Part I

     Item 1.   Business

     (a)  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF COMPANY BUSINESS

     The information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K under
     Part II Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
     and Results of Operations, of this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference
     in response to this Item 1.


     (b)  INDUSTRY SEGMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc. ("Company" or "KCSI") reports its
     financial information in two business segments: Financial Asset Management
     and Transportation.  The primary entities comprising the Financial Asset
     Management segment are Janus Capital Corporation ("Janus") and Berger
     Associates, Inc. ("Berger"), and an equity interest in DST Systems, Inc.
     ("DST").   During third quarter 1997, the Company formed Kansas City
     Southern Lines, Inc. ("KCSL") as the holding company for Transportation
     segment subsidiaries and affiliates, including The Kansas City Southern
     Railway Company ("KCSR"), the primary Transportation operating
     subsidiary.  In early 1998, the Company formed FAM Holdings, Inc. ("FAM
     HC") for the purpose of becoming a holding company for Financial Asset
     Management segment subsidiaries and affiliates.  KCSL and FAM HC were
     organized to provide separate control, management and accountability for
     all transportation and financial asset management operations and
     businesses.

     The information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K
     relative to financial information by industry segment for the three years
     ended December 31, 1997 under Part II Item 7, Management's Discussion and
     Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Form 
     10-K, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, at Note 14-
     Industry Segments of this Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference in
     response to this Item 1.


     (c)  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS

     The information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K under
     Part II Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
     Condition and Results of Operations, of this Form 10-K is incorporated by
     reference in partial response to this Item 1.

     Transportation

     KCSL, through its principal subsidiaries, strategic alliances and 
     marketing agreements, provides rail freight transportation along a 
     contiguous rail network of approximately 10,000 miles that links 
     markets in the United States and Mexico.  KCSL's principal U.S. 
     subsidiary, KCSR, which traces its origins to 1887, has until recent 
     years operated a core network primarily connecting the Midwest with 
     the Louisiana and Texas gulf coasts. During the mid-1990's, while KCSR's 
     major U.S. rail competitors focused on  consolidating their east/west 
     systems in the United States, KCSR embarked on a strategy of expanding 
     its core network in order to capitalize on growing north/south trade 
     between the United States, Mexico and Canada created by the North 
     American Free Trade Agreement ("NAFTA").  KCSL has aggressively pursued 
     acquisitions, joint ventures and marketing agreements with other 
     railroads, with the goal of creating the "NAFTA Railway." KCSL's rail 
     network connects midwestern, eastern and Canadian shippers, including 
     shippers in Chicago, Illinois and Kansas City, Missouri-the two largest 
     rail centers in the United States-with the largest industrial
     centers of Mexico, including Mexico City and Monterrey.  KCSL's railroad
     system is comprised of KCSR, the Gateway Western Railway Company ("Gateway


     

     Western") and strategic joint venture interests in Grupo Transportacion
     Ferroviaria Mexicana, S.A de C.V. (Grupo TFM) (formerly Transportacion
     Ferroviaria Mexicana, S. de R.L. de C.V.), which owns 80% of the common
     stock of TFM, S.A. de C.V. ("TFM," formerly Ferrocarril del Noreste, S.A.
     de C.V.), and the Texas Mexican Railway Company ("Tex-Mex"). In addition,
     KCSL has a marketing agreement with I&M Rail Link, LLC ("I&M Rail Link")
     which provides KCSL with access to customers in the upper midwest, as well
     as access to Chicago and Minneapolis, Minnesota.

     KCSL's transportation network connects with all major U.S. and Canadian
     railroads through gateways at Chicago and East St. Louis, Illinois; Kansas
     City, Missouri; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Meridian and Jackson, Mississippi;
     Shreveport and New Orleans, Louisiana; and Dallas and Laredo, Texas. KCSL
     provides shippers with an effective alternative to the congested
     "mega-carrier" railroads and connects northern and eastern-based
     railroads to the southwestern U.S. and Mexican markets through less
     congested interchange hubs. KCSL's network offers the shortest rail route
     between Kansas City and major port cities along the Gulf of Mexico in
     Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas.

     KCSR's east-west corridor, referred to as the "Meridian Speedway" from
     Meridian, Mississippi to Dallas, Texas, represents the fastest and most
     direct rail route linking many markets in the southwest and southeast
     regions of the United States, two regions of substantial economic 
     vitality.  This corridor also provides eastern shippers and other 
     railroads with an efficient connection to Mexican markets.

     KCSL recently established a prominent position in the growing Mexican
     market through its strategic joint ventures in Grupo TFM and Tex-Mex,
     operated in partnership with Transportacion Maritima Mexicana, S.A. de 
     C.V. ("TMM"), Mexico's largest maritime shipping company.  TFM's route 
     network provides the shortest connection to the major industrial and 
     population areas of Mexico from midwestern and eastern points in the 
     United States.  TFM, which was privatized by the Mexican government in 
     June 1997, passes through Mexican states comprising approximately 69% of
     Mexico's population and accounting for over 70% of Mexico's estimated 
     1996 gross domestic product.  Tex-Mex connects with TFM at Laredo, the 
     single largest rail freight transfer point between the United States and
     Mexico, and with KCSR at Beaumont, Texas, as well as with other U.S. 
     Class I railroads.

     Financial Asset Management

     The Financial Asset Management segment, through FAM HC, includes Janus and
     Berger and a 41% interest in DST.  Both Janus and Berger are investment
     advisors registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
     Janus serves as an investment advisor to Janus Investment Fund and Janus
     Aspen Series, other investment companies, institutional and individual
     private accounts, including pension, profit-sharing and other employee
     benefit plans, trusts, estates, charitable organizations, endowments,
     foundations, and others.  Berger is also engaged in the business of
     providing financial asset management services and products, principally
     through sponsorship of a family of mutual funds.  Both Janus and Berger 
     are headquartered in Denver, Colorado.

     Janus derives its revenues and net income primarily from diversified
     advisory services provided to the Janus Funds and other financial services
     firms and private accounts.  In order to perform its investment advisory
     functions, Janus conducts fundamental investment research and valuation
     analysis.  Janus' approach tends to focus on companies that are
     experiencing or expected to experience above average growth relative to
     their peers or the economy, or that are realizing or expected to realize
     positive change due to new product development, new management, changing
     demographics or regulatory developments. This approach utilizes research
     provided by outside parties as well as in house research.

     Janus has three wholly-owned subsidiaries:  Janus Service Corporation
     ("Janus Service"), Janus Distributors, Inc. ("Janus Distributors") and
     Janus Capital International, Ltd. ("Janus International").

     Janus Service provides full service administration and shareholder 
     services to the Janus Funds and their shareholders as a registered 
     transfer agent.  To provide the high level of service needed to compete 
     in the direct channel,  Janus Service maintains a highly trained group of
     telephone representatives, and


     

     utilizes leading edge technology to provide immediate data to support call
     center and shareholder processing operations.  This includes automated
     phone lines and an Internet web site which is integrated into the
     shareholder services system.  These customer service related enhancements
     provide Janus Service with additional capacity to handle the high
     shareholder volume that can be experienced during market volatility.

     Janus Distributors serves as the distributor of the Janus Funds and is a
     registered broker-dealer.  Janus International is an investment advisor
     registered with the SEC that performs analysis of foreign securities and
     executes trades in Europe.

     DST, included as an equity investment reported in the Financial Asset
     Management segment, is engaged in the business of designing and operating
     proprietary on-line shareholder servicing systems for the mutual fund,
     insurance, banking and real estate industries.  DST operates throughout 
     the United States, with its base of operations in the Midwest and through
     certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, internationally in Canada,
     Europe, Africa and the Pacific Rim.  DST has a single class of stock, its
     common stock, which is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
     Prior to November 1995, KCSI owned all of the stock of DST.  In November
     1995, a public offering reduced KCSI's ownership interest in DST to
     approximately 41%.  KCSI reflects the earnings of DST as an equity
     investment in the consolidated financial statements.

     

     

     Item 2.   Properties

     In the opinion of management, the various facilities, office space and
     other properties owned and/or leased by the Company (and its subsidiaries
     and affiliates) are adequate for existing operating needs.


     TRANSPORTATION (KCSL)

     KCSR
     KCSR owns and operates approximately 2,630 miles of main and branch lines,
     and approximately 1,106 miles of other tracks, in a nine state region,
     including Missouri, Kansas, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Mississippi, Alabama,
     Tennessee, Louisiana, and Texas.  In addition, approximately 215 miles of
     main and branch lines and 85 miles of other tracks are operated by KCSR
     under trackage rights and leases. 

     Kansas City Terminal Railway Company (of which KCSR is a partial owner),
     with other railroads, owns and operates approximately 80 miles of track,
     and operates an additional eight miles of track under trackage rights in
     greater Kansas City, Missouri.  KCSR also leases for operating purposes
     certain short sections of trackage owned by various other railroad com-
     panies and jointly owns certain other facilities with such railroads.

     KCSR and the Union Pacific Railroad ("UP") have a haulage and trackage
     rights agreement, which gives KCSR access to Nebraska and Iowa, and
     additional routes in Kansas, Missouri and Texas.  The haulage rights
     require the UP to move KCSR traffic in UP trains; the trackage rights 
     allow KCSR to operate its trains over UP tracks.

     KCSR owns and operates repair shops, depots and office buildings along its
     right-of-way in support of its transportation operations.  A major
     facility, Deramus Yard, is located in Shreveport, Louisiana and includes a
     general office building, locomotive repair shop, car repair shops, customer
     service center, material warehouses and fueling facilities totaling
     approximately 227,000 square feet.  KCSR owns a 107,800 square foot major
     diesel locomotive repair facility in Pittsburg, Kansas.  KCSR owns freight
     and truck maintenance buildings in Dallas, Texas totaling approximately
     125,200 square feet.  KCSR and KCSI executive offices are located in an
     eight story office building in Kansas City, Missouri and are leased from a
     subsidiary of the Company.  Other facilities owned by KCSR include a 
     21,000 square foot car repair shop in Kansas City, Missouri and approxi-
     mately 15,000 square feet of office space in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

     KCSR owns and operates six intermodal facilities.  These facilities are
     located in Dallas, Texas; Kansas City, Missouri; Sallisaw, Oklahoma;
     Shreveport and New Orleans, Louisiana; and Jackson, Mississippi.  The
     facility in Jackson was completed in December 1996.  The various locations
     include strip tracks, cranes and other equipment used in facilitating the
     transfer and movement of trailers and containers.


     

     

     At December 31, 1997, KCSR's fleet of locomotives and rolling stock
     consisted of 412 diesel locomotives, of which 113 are owned and 299 are
     leased from affiliates, and 16,520 freight cars, of which 4,022 are owned,
     3,124 are leased from affiliates and 9,374 are leased from non-affiliates.
     A significant portion of the locomotives and rolling stock which are
     indicated as leased from affiliates include equipment leased through
     Southern Capital Corporation, LLC ("Southern Capital") is a joint venture
     with GATX Capital Corporation, which was formed in October 1996. 

     Some of this owned equipment is subject to liens created under conditional
     sales agreements, equipment trust certificates and leases in connection
     with the original purchase or lease of such equipment.  KCSR indebtedness
     with respect to equipment trust certificates, conditional sales agreements
     and capital leases totaled approximately $88.9 million at December 31,
     1997.

     

     

     

     *Way and structure expenses include $33.5 million related to asset
     impairments.  See "Results of Operations" for further discussion.

     Gateway Western
     Gateway Western operates a 402 mile rail line extending from Kansas City,
     Missouri to East St. Louis and Springfield, Illinois.  Additionally,
     Gateway Western has restricted haulage rights extending to Chicago,
     Illinois from the Southern Pacific Rail Corporation.  Gateway Western
     connects with various eastern rail carriers at East St. Louis. The Surface
     Transportation Board approved the Company's acquisition of Gateway Western
     in May 1997.
     

     Mexrail
     Mexrail, Inc., a 49% owned KCSI affiliate, owns 100% of The Texas Mexican
     Railway Company ("Tex-Mex") and certain other assets, including the
     northern U.S. half of a rail traffic bridge at Laredo, Texas spanning the
     Rio Grande river.  Grupo TFM, discussed below, operates the southern half
     of the bridge.  This bridge is a significant entry point for rail traffic
     between Mexico and the U.S.  The Tex-Mex operates a 157 mile rail line
     extending from Corpus Christi to Laredo, Texas, and also has trackage
     rights (from Union Pacific Railroad) totaling approximately 360 miles
     between Corpus Christi and Beaumont, Texas.
     

     Grupo TFM
     Grupo TFM (formerly Transportacion Ferroviaria Mexicana, S. de R.L. de 
     C.V.) owns 80% of the common stock of TFM, S.A. de C.V. ("TFM," formerly
     Ferrocarril del Noreste, S.A. de C.V.).  TFM holds the concession to
     operate Mexico's "Northeast Rail Lines" for 50 years, with the option of
     a 50 year extension (subject to certain conditions).  TFM operates
     approximately 2,661 miles of main line and an additional 838 miles of
     sidings and spur tracks, and main line under trackage rights. 
     Approximately 80% of TFM's main line consists of welded rail.  TFM has the
     exclusive right to operate the rail, but does not own the land, roadway or
     associated structures.  However, certain rail equipment, including
     approximately 371

     

     locomotives and 10,665 freight cars, is owned by TFM.  In addition to the
     railway, Grupo TFM (through TFM) also has office space at which various
     operational, accounting, managerial and other activities are
     performed.  The primary facilities are located in Mexico City and
     Monterrey, Mexico.  Grupo TFM was a 37% owned KCSI affiliate at December
     31, 1997.  See additional information in Part II Item 7, Management's
     Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
     in this Form 10-K.

     Other Transportation
     Southern Group, Inc. leases approximately 4,150 square feet of office 
     space in downtown Kansas City, Missouri from an affiliate of DST.

     The Company is an 80% owner of Wyandotte Garage Corporation, which owns a
     parking facility in downtown Kansas City, Missouri.  The facility is
     located adjacent to the Company's and KCSR's executive offices, and
     consists of 1,147 parking spaces which are utilized by the employees of 
     the Company and its affiliates, as well as the public.

     Trans-Serve, Inc. operates a railroad wood tie treating plant in Vivian,
     Louisiana under an industrial revenue bond lease arrangement with an 
     option to purchase.  This facility includes buildings totaling approxi-
     mately 12,000 square feet.

     Pabtex, Inc. ("Pabtex") owns a 70 acre coal and petroleum coke bulk
     handling facility in Port Arthur, Texas.

     Mid-South Microwave, Inc. owns and operates a microwave system, which
     extends essentially along the right-of-way of KCSR from Kansas City,
     Missouri to Dallas, Beaumont and Port Arthur, Texas and New Orleans,
     Louisiana.  This system is leased to KCSR.

     Other subsidiaries of the Company own approximately 8,000 acres of land at
     various points adjacent to the KCSR right-of-way.  Other properties also
     include a 354,000 square foot warehouse at Shreveport, Louisiana, a bulk
     handling facility at Port Arthur, Texas, and several former railway
     buildings now being rented to non-affiliated companies, primarily as
     warehouse space.

     The Company owns 1,025 acres of property located on the waterfront in the
     Port Arthur, Texas area, which includes 22,000 linear feet of deep water
     frontage and three docks.  Port Arthur is an uncongested port with direct
     access to the Gulf of Mexico.  Approximately 75% of this property is
     available for development.


     FINANCIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT

     Janus
     Janus leases from non-affiliates 327,000 square feet of office space in
     three facilities for administrative, marketing, investment, and shareowner
     processing operations, and approximately 33,500 square feet for mail
     processing and storage requirements.  These corporate offices and mail
     processing facilities are located in Denver, Colorado.  Janus also leases
     5,500 square feet for a customer service and telephone center in Kansas
     City, Missouri and 1,400 square feet of office space in London, England 
     for securities research and trading.

     Berger
     Berger leases from a non-affiliate approximately 29,800 square feet of
     office space in Denver, Colorado for its administrative and corporate
     functions.

     

     DST
     DST, an approximate 41% owned unconsolidated affiliate, owns a Data Center
     located in Kansas City, Missouri, commonly known as its Winchester Data
     Center.  DST's shareholder operations, systems development and other
     support functions are located in downtown Kansas City.  In addition, DST
     subsidiaries own or lease facilities in Kansas City and various other
     locations throughout the United States.  DST also leases international
     properties.

     DST owns or leases mainframe computers and significant amounts of 
     auxiliary computer support equipment (such as disk and tape drives, CRT 
     terminals, etc.), all of which are necessary for its computer and 
     communications operations.


     Item 3.      Legal Proceedings

     The information set forth in response to Item 103 of Regulation S-K under
     Part II Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
     Condition and Results of Operations, Other - Litigation and Environmental 
     Matters of this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference in response to this
     Item 3.  In addition, see discussion in Part II Item 8, Financial 
     Statements and Supplementary Data, at Note 12, Commitments and 
     Contingencies of this Form 10-K.


     Item 4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the three
     month period ended December 31, 1997.

     Executive Officers of the Company

     Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K and instruction 3 to
     paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K, the following list is 
     included as an unnumbered Item in Part I of this Form 10-K in lieu of 
     being included in KCSI's Definitive Proxy Statement which will be filed 
     no later than 120 days after December 31, 1997.  All executive officers 
     are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of 
     Directors.  Certain of the executive officers have employment agreements
     with the Company.

     Name                   Age      Position(s)
     L.H. Rowland            60       Chairman, President and
                                        Chief Executive Officer of the Company
     M.R. Haverty            52       Executive Vice President, Director
     T.H. Bailey             60       Chairman, President and
                                        Chief Executive Officer of
                                        Janus Capital Corporation
     P.S. Brown              61       Vice President, Associate General
                                        Counsel and Assistant Secretary
     R.P. Bruening           58       Vice President, General Counsel and 
                                        Corporate Secretary
     D.R. Carpenter          51       Vice President - Finance
     W.K. Erdman             39       Vice President - Corporate Affairs
     A.P. McCarthy           51       Vice President and Treasurer
     J.D. Monello            53       Vice President and Chief Financial
                                        Officer
     L.G. Van Horn           39       Vice President and Comptroller

     

     The information set forth in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement in
     Proposal 1 "Election of Directors" with respect to Mr. Rowland and in the
     description of the Board of Directors with respect to Mr. Haverty is
     incorporated herein by reference. 

     Mr. Bailey has continuously served as Chairman, President and Chief
     Executive Officer of Janus Capital Corporation since 1978.

     Mr. Brown has continuously served as Vice President, Associate General
     Counsel and Assistant Secretary since July 1992.  From 1981 to July 1992,
     he served as Vice President - Governmental Affairs. 

     Mr. Bruening has continuously served as Vice President, General Counsel 
     and Corporate Secretary since July 1995.  From May 1982 to July 1995, he 
     served as Vice President and General Counsel.  He also serves as Senior 
     Vice President and General Counsel of KCSR.

     Mr. Carpenter has continuously served as Vice President - Finance since
     November 1996.  He was Vice President - Finance and Tax from May 1995 to
     November 1996. He was Vice President - Tax from June 1993 to May 1995. 
     From 1978 to June 1993, he was a member in the law firm of Watson &
     Marshall L.C., Kansas City, Missouri. 

     Mr. Erdman has continuously served as Vice President - Corporate Affairs
     since April 1997.  From January 1997 to April 1997 he served as Director -
     Corporate Affairs.  From 1987 to January 1997 he served as Chief of Staff
     for United States Senator from Missouri, Christopher ("Kit") Bond.

     Mr. McCarthy has continuously served as Vice President and Treasurer since
     May 1996.  He was Treasurer from December 1989 to May 1996.

     Mr. Monello has continuously served as Vice President and Chief Financial
     Officer since March 1994.  From October 1992 to March 1994, he served as
     Vice President - Finance.  From January 1992 to October 1992, he served as
     Vice President - Finance and Comptroller.  From May 1989 to January 1992,
     he served as Vice President and Assistant Comptroller.

     Mr. Van Horn has continuously served as Vice President and Comptroller
     since May 1996.  He was Comptroller from October 1992 to May 1996.  From
     January 1992 to October 1992, he served as Assistant Comptroller.  He also
     serves as Vice President and Comptroller of KCSR. 

     There are no arrangements or understandings between the executive officers
     and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was or is to
     be selected as an officer, except with respect to the executive officers
     who have entered into employment agreements, which agreements designate 
     the position(s) to be held by the executive officer.

     None of the above officers are related to one another by family.

     

                                       Part II

     Item 5.      Market for the Company's Common Stock and Related Stockholder
                  Matters

     The information set forth in response to Item 201 of Regulation S-K on the
     cover (page i) under the heading "Company Stock," and in Part II Item 8,
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, at Note 15, Quarterly
     Financial Data (Unaudited) of this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference
     in partial response to this Item 5.  

     The Company's Board of Directors ("Board") authorized a 20% increase in
     its common stock dividend in July 1997.  The payment and amount of
     dividends will be reviewed periodically and adjustments considered that 
     are consistent with growth in real earnings and prevailing business 
     conditions.  Also in July 1997, the Board authorized a 3-for-1 split in 
     the Company's common stock.  Unrestricted retained earnings of the Company
     at December 31, 1997 were $204.7 million.

     At March 9, 1998, there were 6,239 holders of the Company's common stock
     based upon an accumulation of the registered stockholder listing.

     Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
     On December 11, 1997 the Company issued 330,000 shares of its Common Stock
     under an exchange agreement dated as of December 3, 1997 by and among the
     Company and Louis P. Bansbach, III, the Louis P. Bansbach, IV, Trust 1, 
     and the Brooke Allison Bansbach, Trust 1 (collectively, the "Bansbachs"). 
     The Company issued the shares of Common Stock to the Bansbachs in exchange
     for all the shares of stock of Berger held by the Bansbachs, consisting 
     of an aggregate of 7,673 shares of Berger non-voting common stock and
     7,673 shares of Berger voting common stock.  The Company relied upon an 
     exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act based
     on, among other things (i) the fact that the offering was extended to only
     three offerees who are related to each other and (ii) representations by
     the Bansbachs as to their net worth, sophistication and experience with
     evaluating, managing and holding investments and as to their intent to 
     hold the securities for investment.  In addition, prior to the exchange of
     shares, the Company made available to the Bansbachs, among other
     information, the most recent public filings of the Company under the
     Exchange Act.

     


     Item 6.      Selected Financial Data 
     (in millions, except per share and ratio data)
     


     (i)  Includes $196.4 million ($158.1 million after-tax, or $1.47 per basic
          and diluted share) of restructuring, asset impairment and other
          charges recorded by the Company during fourth quarter 1997.  The
          charges reflect: a $91.3 million impairment of goodwill associated
          with KCSR's acquisition of MidSouth Corporation in 1993; $38.5 
          million of long-lived assets held for disposal; $9.2 million of 
          impaired long-lived assets; approximately $27.1 million in reserves 
          related to termination of a union productivity fund and employee 
          separations; a $12.7 million impairment of goodwill associated with
          the Company's investment in Berger; and $17.6 million of other 
          reserves for leases, contracts and other reorganization costs.  
          See Notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements in this 
          Form 10-K.

    (ii)  Includes a one time after-tax gain of $47.7 million
          (or $0.42 per basic share, $0.41 per diluted share), representing the
          Company's proportionate share of the one-time gain recognized by DST
          in connection with the merger of The Continuum Company, Inc., 
          formerly a DST unconsolidated equity affiliate, with Computer 
          Sciences Corporation in a tax-free share exchange (see Note 2 to the
          consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K).

   (iii)  Reflects DST as an unconsolidated affiliate as of
          January 1, 1995 due to the DST public offering and associated
          transactions completed in November 1995, which reduced the Company's
          ownership of DST to approximately 41% and resulted in deconsolidation
          of DST from the Company's consolidated financial statements.  The
          public offering and associated transactions resulted in a $144.6
          million after-tax gain - $1.14 per basic share, $1.10 per diluted
          share - to the Company (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial
          statements included in this Form 10-K).

    (iv)  Financial information from which the ratio of earnings to fixed
          charges was computed for the year ended December 31, 1997 includes 
          the restructuring, asset impairment and other charges discussed in 
          (i) above.  If the ratio was computed to exclude these charges, the 
          1997 ratio of earnings to fixed charges would have been 3.47.

     (v)  Financial information from which the ratio of earnings to fixed
          charges was computed for the year ended December 31, 1995 reflects 
          DST as a majority owned unconsolidated subsidiary through October 31,
          1995, and an unconsolidated 41% owned affiliate thereafter, in
          accordance with applicable U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
          rules and regulations.  If the ratio was computed to exclude the one-
          time pretax gain of $296.3 million associated with the November 1995
          public offering and associated transactions, the 1995 ratio of
          earnings to fixed charges would have been 3.04.



     

     All years reflect the 3-for-1 common stock split to shareholders of record
     on August 25, 1997, paid September 16, 1997.

     All years reflect the reclassification of certain income/expense items 
     from "Revenues" and "Costs and Expenses" to a separate "Other, net" line
     item in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

     The information set forth in response to Item 301 of Regulation S-K under
     Part II Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
     Condition and Results of Operations, of this Form 10-K is incorporated by 
     reference in partial response to this Item 6.



     

     Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
               Results of Operations

     OVERVIEW
     The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Form 10-
     K, contains comments not based upon historical fact.  Such forward-looking
     comments are based upon information currently available to management and
     management's perception thereof as of the date of this Form 10-K.  Readers
     can identify these forward-looking comments by their use of such verbs as
     expects, anticipates, believes or similar verbs or conjugations of such
     verbs.  The actual results of operations of Kansas City Southern
     Industries, Inc. ("KCSI" or "Company") could materially differ from
     those indicated in forward-looking comments.  The differences could be
     caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not
     limited to, those factors identified in the Company's Current Report on
     Form 8-K dated November 12, 1996 and its Amendment, Form 8-K/A dated June
     3, 1997, which have been filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission (Files No. 1-4717) and are hereby incorporated by reference
     herein.  Readers are strongly encouraged to consider these factors when
     evaluating any such forward-looking comments.

     The discussion herein is intended to clarify and focus on the Company's
     results of operations, certain changes in its financial position,
     liquidity, capital structure and business developments for the periods
     covered by the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of
     this Form 10-K.  This discussion should be read in conjunction with these
     consolidated financial statements, the related notes and the Report of
     Independent Accountants thereon, and is qualified by reference thereto.

     KCSI, a Delaware corporation organized in 1962, is a diversified holding
     company with principal operations in rail transportation, through its
     subsidiaries, Kansas City Southern Lines, Inc. ("KCSL"), The Kansas City
     Southern Railway Company ("KCSR"), Gateway Western Railway Company
     ("Gateway Western") and various equity investments, and Financial Asset
     Management, through its subsidiaries Janus Capital Corporation ("Janus")
     and Berger Associates, Inc. ("Berger"), and KCSI's equity investment in
     DST Systems, Inc. ("DST").  The Company supplies its various subsidiaries
     with managerial, legal, tax, financial and accounting services, in 
     addition to managing other "non-operating" and more passive investments.

     Effective January 1, 1997, the Company realigned its industry segments to
     more clearly reflect the Company's core businesses.  The various 
     components which formerly comprised the Corporate & Other segment were 
     assigned to either the Transportation or Financial Asset Management 
     segment.

     During third quarter 1997, the Company formed Kansas City Southern Lines,
     Inc. ("KCSL") as a holding company for KCSR and all other transportation-
     related subsidiaries and affiliates.  KCSL was organized to provide
     separate control, management and accountability for all transportation
     operations and businesses.  Additionally, on January 23, 1998, the Company
     formed FAM Holdings, Inc. ("FAMHC") for the purpose of becoming a holding
     company for Janus, Berger, the approximate 41% equity interest in DST and
     all other financial asset management related subsidiaries and affiliates. 
     Similar to KCSL, FAMHC was organized to provide separate control,
     management and accountability for all financial asset management opera-
     tions and businesses. 

     The Company's business activities by industry segment and principal
     subsidiary companies are:

     Transportation.  The Transportation segment (i.e., KCSL) consists of all
     transportation-related subsidiaries and investments, including:

     *KCSR, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, operating a Class I
      Common Carrier railroad system;

     

     *Gateway Western, a wholly-owned subsidiary of KCS Transportation Company
      ("KCSTC," a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company), operating a
      regional railroad system;
     *Southern Group, Inc. ("SGI"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of KCSR, owning
      100% of Carland, Inc. and managing the loan portfolio for Southern
      Capital Corporation, LLC ("Southern Capital," a 50% owned joint
      venture);
     *Equity investments in Southern Capital, Grupo Transportacion Ferroviaria
      Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. ("Grupo TFM" - formerly Transportacion
      Ferroviaria Mexicana, S. de R.L. de C.V. ), a 37% owned affiliate, and
      Mexrail, Inc. ("Mexrail") a 49% owned affiliate along with its wholly
      owned subsidiary, The Texas Mexican Railway Company ("Tex-Mex");
     *Various other consolidated subsidiaries; 
     *KCSL Holding Company amounts.

     Financial Asset Management.  This segment (i.e. FAMHC) consists of all
     subsidiaries engaged in the management of investments for mutual funds,
     private and other accounts, as well as any Financial Asset Management-
     related investments.  Included are:

     *Janus, an 83% owned subsidiary;
     *Berger, a wholly-owned subsidiary;
     *DST, an approximate 41% owned equity investment;
     *KCSI Holding Company amounts.

     As discussed below, the Company and DST completed a public offering of DST
     common stock and associated transactions in November 1995, which reduced
     the Company's ownership of DST to approximately 41%.  Accordingly, the
     Company's investment in DST was accounted for under the equity method for
     the year ended December 31, 1995 retroactive to January 1, 1995.

     All per share information included in this Item 7 is presented on a 
     diluted basis, unless specifically identified otherwise.


     RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
     Planned Separation of Company Business Segments.  In September 1997, the
     Company announced the planned separation of its Transportation and
     Financial Asset Management segments.  Initially, the Company contemplated
     an initial public offering of its Transportation segment (KCSL). On
     February 3, 1998, however, the Company announced its intention to pursue a
     spin-off of its Financial Asset Management businesses.  The spin-off would
     be subject to obtaining a favorable tax ruling from the Internal Revenue
     Service ("IRS") and other key factors.  A tax ruling request was filed
     with the IRS on February 27, 1998. 

     The Company expects to complete the spin-off by third quarter 1998, 
     subject to receipt of a favorable tax ruling.  A public offering of KCSI 
     stock (i.e., the Transportation businesses) in some form is anticipated to
     occur subsequent to the spin-off. 

     Panama Railroad Concession.  The Government of Panama has granted a
     concession to the Panama Canal Railway Company ("PCRC"), a joint venture
     of KCSI and Mi-Jack Products, Inc., to operate a railroad between Panama
     City and Colon.  Upon completion of certain infrastructure improvements,
     the PCRC will operate an approximate 47-mile railroad running parallel to
     the Panama Canal and connecting the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. The PCRC
     has committed to making at least $30 million in capital improvements and
     investments in Panama over the next five year period.  The Company expects
     its contribution related to the PCRC project to be less than $10 million. 
     PCRC is in the process of evaluating the overall needs and requirements of
     the project and alternative financing opportunities.

     

     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
      
     Consolidated operating results from 1995 to 1997 were affected by the
     following significant developments.

     Restructuring, Asset Impairment and Other Charges.  In connection with the
     Company's review of its accounts in accordance with its established
     accounting policies, as well as a change in the Company's methodology for
     evaluating the recoverability of goodwill (as set forth in Note 1 to the
     consolidated financial statements), $196.4 million of restructuring, asset
     impairment and other charges were recorded during fourth quarter 1997. 
     After consideration of related tax effects, these charges reduced
     consolidated earnings by $158.1 million, or $1.47 per share.  The charges
     include:

     * A $91.3 million impairment of goodwill associated with KCSR's
       acquisition of MidSouth Corporation ("MidSouth") in 1993.  In response
       to the changing competitive and business environment in the rail
       industry, the Company revised its accounting methodology for evaluating
       the recoverability of intangibles from a business unit approach to
       analyzing each of the Company's significant investment components. 
       Based on this analysis, the remaining purchase price in excess of fair
       value of the MidSouth assets acquired was not recoverable.
     * A $38.5 million charge representing long-lived assets held for disposal.
       Certain branch lines on the MidSouth route and certain non-operating
       real estate have been designated for sale, and efforts have been
       initiated by management to procure bids. 
     * Approximately $27.1 million in reserves related to termination of a
       union productivity fund and employee separations.  The union
       productivity fund was established in connection with prior collective
       bargaining agreements and required KCSR to pay employees when reduced
       crew levels were used.
     * A $12.7 million impairment of goodwill associated with the Company's
       investment in Berger.  In connection with the Company's review of the
       carrying value of its various assets, management determined that a
       portion of the intangibles recorded in connection with the Berger
       investment were not recoverable, primarily due to below-peer performance
       and growth of the core Berger funds.
     * A $9.2 million impairment of assets at Pabtex (a subsidiary of the
       Company) as a result of continued operating losses and a decline in its
       customer base.
     * Approximately $17.6 million of other reserves for leases, contracts,
       impaired investments and other reorganization costs.  Based on the
       Company's review of its assets and liabilities, certain charges were
       recorded to reflect recoverability and/or obligation as of December 31,
       1997.

     Operating Difficulties of the Union Pacific Railroad. As has been reported
     in the press, the Union Pacific Railroad ("UP") has experienced recent
     difficulties with its railroad operations, reportedly linked to its recent
     acquisition of the Southern Pacific Railroad.  UP is one of KCSR's largest
     interchange partners. The UP's difficulties have resulted in overall
     traffic congestion of the U.S. railroad system and have impacted KCSR's
     ability to interchange traffic with UP, both for domestic and 
     international traffic (i.e., to and from Mexico).  This system congestion 
     has resulted in certain equipment shortages due to KCSR's rolling stock 
     being retained within the UP system for unusually extended periods of 
     time, for which UP remits car hire amounts.  KCSR agreed to accept 
     certain UP trains in diverted traffic to assist in the easing of the 
     UP's system congestion, resulting in revenues of approximately $3.9 
     million during 1997, which largely offset traffic lost due to congestion
     on UP's line. 

     The Surface Transportation Board ("STB") issued an emergency service
     order on October 31, 1997, addressing the deteriorating quality of rail
     service in the Western United States.  Key measures in the STB order
     included granting the Tex-Mex access to Houston shippers, access to
     trackage rights over the more direct Algoa Route south of Houston, and a
     connection with the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad at Flatonia,
     Texas.  The order took effect on November 5, 1997 and extended for 30 days
     initially.  The STB extended this order through August 2, 1998. 

     

     As a result of this emergency service order, Tex-Mex revenues increased
     during fourth quarter 1997.  However, expenses associated with
     accommodating the increase in traffic and congestion related problems of
     the UP system substantially offset this revenue increase.

     Grupo TFM.  As disclosed previously, Grupo TFM, a joint venture of the
     Company and Transportacion Maritima Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. ("TMM"), was
     awarded the right to purchase 80% of the common stock of TFM, S.A. de C.V.
     ("TFM," formerly Ferrocarril del Noreste, S.A. de C.V.) for approximately
     11.072 billion Mexican pesos (approximately $1.4 billion U.S. based on the
     U.S. dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate on December 5, 1996). TFM holds the
     concession to operate over Mexico's Northeast Rail Lines for 50 years, 
     with the option of a 50 year extension (subject to certain conditions).

     As previously disclosed, the remaining 20% of TFM was retained by the
     Mexican Government ("Government").  The Government has the option of
     selling its 20% interest through a public offering, or selling it to Grupo
     TFM after October 31, 2003 at the initial share price paid by Grupo TFM
     plus interest computed at the Mexican Base Rate (the Unidad de Inversiones
     (UDI) published by Banco de Mexico).  In the event that Grupo TFM does not
     purchase the Government's 20% interest in TFM, the Government may require
     TMM and KCSI to purchase the Government's holdings in proportion to each
     partner's respective ownership interest in Grupo TFM (without regard to 
     the Government's interest in Grupo TFM - see below). 

     On January 31, 1997, Grupo TFM paid the first installment of the purchase
     price (approximately $565 million U.S. based on the U.S. dollar/Mexican
     peso exchange rate) to the Government, representing approximately 40% of
     the purchase price. This initial installment of the TFM purchase price was
     funded by Grupo TFM through capital contributions from TMM and the 
     Company.  The Company contributed approximately $298 million to Grupo TFM,
     of which approximately $277 million was used by Grupo TFM as part of the 
     initial installment payment.  The Company financed this contribution using
     borrowings under existing lines of credit.

     On June 23, 1997, Grupo TFM completed the purchase of 80% of TFM through
     the payment of the remaining $835 million U.S. to the Government.  This
     payment was funded by Grupo TFM using a significant portion of the funds
     obtained from: (i) senior secured term credit facilities ($325 million
     U.S.); (ii) senior notes and senior discount debentures ($400 million
     U.S.); (iii) proceeds from the sale of 24.5% of Grupo TFM to the 
     Government (approximately $199 million U.S. based on the U.S. 
     dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate on June 23, 1997); and (iv) additional
     capital contributions from TMM and the Company (approximately $1.4 
     million from each partner). Additionally, Grupo TFM entered into a $150 
     million revolving credit facility for general working capital purposes.  
     The Government's interest in Grupo TFM is in the form of limited voting 
     right shares, and the purchase agreement includes a call option for 
     TMM and the Company, which is exercisable at the original amount 
     (in U.S. dollars) paid by the  Government plus interest based on 
     one-year U.S. Treasury securities.

     In February and March 1997, the Company entered into two separate forward
     contracts - $98 million in February 1997 and $100 million in March 1997 -
     to purchase Mexican pesos in order to hedge against a portion of the
     Company's exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Mexican peso versus
     the U.S. dollar. In April 1997, the Company realized a $3.8 million pretax
     gain in connection with these contracts.  This gain was deferred, and has
     been accounted for as a component of the Company's investment in Grupo 
     TFM.  These contracts were intended to hedge only a portion of the 
     Company's exposure related to the final installment of the purchase price
     and not any other transactions or balances.

     Concurrent with the financing transactions, Grupo TFM, TMM and the Company
     entered into a Capital Contribution Agreement ("Contribution Agreement")
     with TFM, which includes a possible capital call of $150 million from TMM
     and the Company if certain performance benchmarks, outlined in the
     agreement, are not met. The Company would be responsible for approximately
     $74 million of the capital call.  The

     

     term of the Contribution Agreement is three years.  In a related agreement
     between Grupo TFM, TFM and the Government, among others, the Government 
     has agreed to contribute up to $37.5 million of equity capital to Grupo 
     TFM if TMM and the Company are required to contribute under the capital 
     call provisions of the Contribution Agreement prior to July 16, 1998. In
     the event the Government has not made any contributions by such date, the
     Government has committed up to July 31, 1999 to make additional capital
     contributions to Grupo TFM (of up to an aggregate amount of $37.5 million)
     on a proportionate basis with TMM and the Company if capital contributions
     are required.  Any capital contributions to Grupo TFM from the Government
     would be used to reduce the contribution amounts required to be paid by 
     TMM and the Company pursuant to the Contribution Agreement.  As of 
     December 31, 1997 no additional contributions from the Company have been 
     requested or made.

     At December 31, 1997, the Company's investment in Grupo TFM was
     approximately $288 million.  With the sale of 24.5% of Grupo TFM to the
     Government, the Company's interest in Grupo TFM declined from 49% to
     approximately 37% (with TMM and a TMM affiliate owning the remaining
     38.5%).  The Company accounts for its investment in Grupo TFM under the
     equity method.

     I&M Rail Link.  During 1997, KCSR entered into a marketing agreement with
     I&M Rail Link, LLC, which provides KCSR with access to customers 
     (primarily new grain origins) in the upper Midwest, as well as Chicago and
     Minneapolis.  This agreement is similar to a haulage rights agreement, but
     without the restrictions on traffic.  The Company believes this agreement
     provides KCSR with the ability to increase its traffic, particularly with
     respect to agricultural and mineral products.

     Berger Ownership Interest.  As a result of certain transactions during
     1997, the Company increased its ownership in Berger to 100%.  In January
     and December 1997, Berger purchased, for treasury, the common stock of
     minority shareholders.  Also in December 1997, the Company acquired
     additional Berger shares from a minority shareholder through the issuance
     of KCSI common stock.  These transactions resulted in approximately $17.8
     million of intangibles, which will be amortized over their estimated
     economic life of 15 years.  However, see discussion of impairment of
     certain of these intangibles in "Restructuring, Asset Impairment and Other
     Charges" heading above.

     In connection with the Company's acquisition of a controlling interest of
     Berger in 1994 under a Stock Purchase Agreement ("Agreement"), the
     Company may be required to make additional purchase price payments up to
     approximately $62.4 million (of which $39.7 million remains unpaid),
     contingent upon Berger attaining certain levels (up to $10 billion) of
     assets under management, as defined in the Agreement, over a five year
     period.  In 1997, 1996 and 1995, additional payments were made totaling
     $3.1, $23.9 and $3.1 million, respectively, resulting in adjustment to the
     purchase price.  The intangible amounts are being amortized over their
     estimated economic life of 15 years. 

     Stock Split and 20% Increase in Quarterly Common Stock Dividend.  On July
     29, 1997, the Company's Board of Directors ("Board") authorized a 3-for-1
     split in the Company's common stock effected in the form of a stock
     dividend.  The Board also voted to increase the quarterly dividend 20% to
     $0.04 per share (post-split).  Both dividends were paid on September 16,
     1997 to stockholders of record as of August 25, 1997.  Amounts reported in
     this Form 10-K have been restated to reflect the stock split.

     Common Stock Repurchases.  The Company's Board has authorized management to
     repurchase a total of 33 million shares of KCSI common stock under two
     programs - the 1995 program for 24 million shares and the 1996 program for
     nine million shares.  During 1997, the Company purchased approximately 2.9
     million shares (post-split) at an aggregate cost of approximately $50
     million.  With these transactions, the Company has repurchased
     approximately 27.6 million shares of its common shares, completing the 
     1995 program and part of the 1996 program.  In connection with these 
     programs, the Company entered into a forward stock purchase contract in 
     1995 for the repurchase of shares, which was completed during 1997.  See
     discussion in "Financial Instruments and Purchase Commitments" below.

     

     Gateway Western.  KCSTC acquired beneficial ownership of the outstanding
     stock of Gateway Western in December 1996. The stock acquired by KCSTC was
     held in an independent voting trust until the Company received approval
     from the STB on the Company's proposed acquisition of Gateway Western. The
     STB issued its approval of the transaction effective May 5, 1997.  The
     consideration paid for Gateway Western (including various acquisition 
     costs and liabilities) was approximately $12.2 million, which exceeded the
     fair value of the underlying net assets by approximately $12.1 million.  
     The resulting intangible is being amortized over a period of 40 years. 

     Because the Gateway Western stock was held in trust during first quarter
     1997, the Company accounted for Gateway Western under the equity method as
     a wholly-owned unconsolidated subsidiary.  Upon STB approval of the
     acquisition, the Company consolidated Gateway Western in the Transporta-
     tion segment.  Additionally, the Company restated first quarter 1997 to 
     include Gateway Western as a consolidated subsidiary as of January 1, 
     1997, and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 1997 
     reflect this restatement.

     Under a prior agreement with The Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway
     Company, Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation has the option of
     purchasing the assets of Gateway Western (based on a fixed formula in the
     agreement) through the year 2004.

     Southern Capital Joint Venture.  In October 1996, the Company and GATX
     Capital Corporation ("GATX") completed the formation and financing of a
     joint venture to perform certain leasing and financing activities.  The
     venture, Southern Capital, was formed through a GATX contribution of $25
     million in cash, and a Company contribution (through its subsidiaries KCSR
     and Carland) of $25 million in net assets, comprising a negotiated fair
     value of locomotives and rolling stock and long-term indebtedness owed to
     KCSI and its subsidiaries.  In an associated transaction, Southern Leasing
     Corporation (an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company prior to
     dissolution in October 1996), sold to Southern Capital approximately $75
     million of loan portfolio assets and rail equipment.

     As a result of these transactions and subsequent repayment by Southern
     Capital of indebtedness owed to KCSI and its subsidiaries, the Company
     received cash which exceeded the net book value of its assets by
     approximately $44.1 million.  Concurrent with the formation of the joint
     venture, KCSR entered into operating leases with Southern Capital for the
     majority of the rail equipment acquired by or contributed to Southern
     Capital.  Accordingly, this excess fair value over book value is being
     recognized over the terms of the leases (approximately $4.9 million in
     1997). 

     The cash received by the Company was used to reduce outstanding
     indebtedness by approximately $217 million, after consideration of
     applicable income taxes, through repayments on various lines of credit and
     subsidiary indebtedness. The Company reports its 50% ownership interest in
     Southern Capital under the equity method of accounting.

     1997 net income was positively impacted as a result of the Southern 
     Capital transaction.  Reduced depreciation and interest expense, together
     with equity earnings from Southern Capital, more than offset the increase 
     in fixed lease expense.   Note that the reduced depreciation in 1997 
     resulting from this transaction was substantially offset by depreciation
     associated with capital expenditures during 1996 and 1997. 

     DST's Investment in Continuum.  On August 1, 1996, The Continuum Company,
     Inc. ("Continuum"), formerly an approximate 23% owned DST unconsolidated
     equity affiliate, merged with Computer Sciences Corporation ("CSC," a
     publicly traded company) in a tax-free share exchange. In exchange for its
     ownership interest in Continuum, DST received approximately 4.3 million
     shares (representing an approximate 6% interest) of CSC common stock.

     

     As a result of the transaction, the Company's 1996 earnings include
     approximately $47.7 million (after-tax), or $0.41 per share, representing
     the Company's proportionate share of the one-time gain recognized by DST 
     in connection with the merger.  Continuum ceased to be an equity 
     affiliate of DST, thereby eliminating any future Continuum equity affiliate
     earnings or losses.  DST recognized equity losses in Continuum of $4.9 
     million for the first six months of 1996 and $1.1 million for the year 
     ended December 31, 1995.

     Railroad Industry Trends and Competition.  During the period from 1995 to
     1997, the railroad industry has experienced ongoing consolidation. 
     Specifically, Burlington Northern, Inc. and Santa Fe Pacific Corporation
     ("BN/SF") merged in 1995, as did the UP and the Chicago and North Western
     Transportation Company ("UP/CNW").  In 1996, the UP merged with SP
     ("UP/SP").  In 1997, CSX Corporation and Norfolk Southern Corporation
     completed negotiations to purchase parts of Conrail, Inc., and the STB is
     currently reviewing the proposed transaction.  Finally, in February 1998,
     the Canadian National Railway announced its intention to acquire the
     Illinois Central Corporation.

     As these transactions are not completed or have only recently been
     completed, the Company cannot predict their ultimate outcome or effect on
     KCSR.  However, the Company believes that KCSR revenues have been and may
     be negatively affected by increased competition from these consolidations
     as a result of diversions of rail traffic away from KCSR lines.

     In addition to competition within the railroad industry, highway carriers
     compete with KCSR throughout its operating area. Since deregulation of the
     railroad industry, competition has resulted in extensive downward pressure
     on freight rates. Truck carriers have eroded the railroad industry's share
     of total transportation revenues. However, rail carriers, including KCSR,
     have placed an emphasis on competing in the intermodal marketplace, 
     working together to provide end-to-end transportation of products. 

     Mississippi and Missouri River barge traffic, among others, also competes
     with KCSR in the transportation of bulk commodities such as grains, steel,
     and petroleum products.

     In response to the changing competitive and business environment in the
     rail industry, the Company revised its accounting methodology for
     evaluating the recoverability of intangibles from a business unit approach
     to analyzing each of the Company's significant investment components. 
     Based on this analysis, $91.3 million of the remaining purchase price in
     excess of fair value of the MidSouth Corporation assets acquired was not
     recoverable.

     See "Union Labor Negotiations" below for a discussion of the impact of
     labor issues and regulations on competition in the transportation 
     industry.

     Berger Joint Venture.  During 1996, Berger entered into a joint venture
     agreement with Bank of Ireland Asset Management (U.S.) Limited, a
     subsidiary of Bank of Ireland, to develop and market a series of
     international and global mutual funds.  The new venture, named BBOI
     Worldwide LLC ("BBOI"), is headquartered in Denver, Colorado.  Regulatory
     approvals were received in October 1996, and the first no-load mutual fund
     product - the Berger/BIAM International Fund ("BIAM Fund") - was
     introduced in fourth quarter 1996.  Assets under management for the BIAM
     Fund totaled $161 million at December 31, 1997.  Berger accounts for its
     50% investment in BBOI under the equity method.

     Union Labor Negotiations.  Approximately 85% of KCSR's and Gateway
     Western's combined  employees are covered under various collective
     bargaining agreements.  In 1996, with the exception of employees of the
     former MidSouth, the Company effectively settled labor contract disputes
     with all major railroad unions, including the United Transportation Union,
     the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, the Transportation Communications
     International Union, the Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employees, and
     the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.  The
     provisions of the various labor agreements, which extend to December 31,
     1999, generally include periodic general wage

     

     increases, lump-sum payments to workers, and greater work rule 
     flexibility, among other provisions. Settlement of these labor issues 
     effectively mitigates the possibility of a work stoppage and did not 
     have a material effect on the Company's consolidated results of 
     operations or financial position. 

     Labor agreements related to employees of the former MidSouth covered by
     collective bargaining agreements reopened for negotiations in 1997.  These
     agreements entail nineteen separate groups of employees.  KCSR management
     is currently in the process of meeting with these unions representing its
     employees.  While these discussions are ongoing, the Company does not
     anticipate that this process or the resultant labor agreements will have a
     material impact on its operations or financial conditions.

     As a result of these labor agreements completed in 1996, which will result
     in operating efficiencies, management believes the Company is better
     positioned to compete effectively with alternative forms of transportation,
     as well as other railroads.  However, railroads remain restricted by
     certain remaining antiquated operating rules and are thus prevented from
     achieving optimum productivity with existing technology and systems.

     KCSR, Gateway and other railroads continue to be affected by labor
     regulations which are more burdensome than those governing non-rail
     industries, such as trucking competitors.  The Railroad Retirement Act
     requires up to a 23.75% contribution by railroad employers on eligible
     wages, while the Social Security and Medicare Acts only require a 7.65%
     employer contribution on similar wage bases.  Other programs, such as The
     Federal Employees Liability Act (FELA), when compared to worker's
     compensation laws, vividly illustrate the competitive disadvantage placed
     upon the rail industry by federal labor regulations.

     DST Public Offering.  In October and November 1995, DST and the Company
     completed an initial public offering of DST common stock.  In conjunction
     with the offering, the Company completed an exchange of DST shares for
     shares of KCSI common stock held by The Employee Stock Ownership Plan
     ("ESOP"). The Company recorded an after-tax gain of approximately $144.6
     million during fourth quarter 1995 from this transaction, representing
     $1.15 per share in fourth quarter 1995 and $1.10 per share for the year
     ended December 31, 1995.  As a result of the offering and associated
     transactions, the Company's ownership in DST decreased to approximately
     41%, and the DST investment was accounted for under the equity method
     retroactive to January 1, 1995. 

     The purpose of the offering was to achieve market recognition of DST's
     performance as a stand-alone entity and to obtain proceeds for the
     retirement of debt, repurchase of Company common stock and general
     corporate purposes.  The net proceeds to the Company from the offering and
     repayment of indebtedness by DST totaled approximately $200 million, after
     applicable income taxes.

     Mexrail Investment.  In November 1995, the Company purchased 49% of the
     common stock of Mexrail from TMM.  Mexrail owns 100% of the Tex-Mex, as
     well as certain other assets.  The Tex-Mex operates a 157 mile rail line
     extending from Corpus Christi to Laredo, Texas.  The purchase price of $23
     million was financed through existing lines of credit.  Upon completion of
     purchase price allocations in 1996, approximately $9.8 million of
     intangibles were recorded as the purchase price exceeded the fair value of
     the underlying net assets. The intangible amounts are being amortized over
     a period of 40 years.  The investment is accounted for under the equity
     method. 

     As a result of efforts by the Company in connection with the UP/SP merger,
     the STB, as a condition for approval of the merger, granted the Tex-Mex
     trackage rights to operate over UP lines between Corpus Christi and
     Beaumont, Texas.  In Beaumont, the Tex-Mex interchanges with KCSR,
     effectively extending the KCSR rail network to the Mexican border, where it
     connects with TFM.  As noted earlier, this

     

     interchange, together with KCSR's connections with major rail carriers at
     various other points in the United States and the Company's partial
     ownership of TFM, positions KCSL to be an integral component of the
     economic integration of the North American marketplace.

     KCSR Unusual Costs.  During the first and second quarters of 1995, KCSR
     recorded approximately $19.2 million (after-tax), or approximately $0.15
     per share, of unusual costs and expenses related to employee separations
     and other personnel related activities, unusual system operational related
     expenses, and reserves for contracts, leases and property. 

     Safety and Quality Programs.  KCSR continued the implementation of
     important safety and quality programs during 1997, including an extensive,
     cross-functional "Pro-Formance" initiative focusing on continuous
     improvements in all aspects of the organization.  As a result of these
     programs, KCSR has experienced a decline in accident related statistics in
     recent years.  For the period 1995 to 1997, safety and quality programs
     resulted in a 7% decline in Federal Railroad Administration reportable
     injuries, a 33% decline in employee lost work days and a 15% decline in
     total derailments. Related benefits are expected to be recurring in nature
     and realizable over future years.  "Safety" and "Quality" programs
     comprise two important ongoing elements of KCSR management's goal of
     reducing employee injuries.  Associated program expenses are not
     anticipated to have a material impact on operating results in future 
     years.


     INDUSTRY SEGMENT RESULTS
     
      

   (i)  Includes $196.4 million ($158.1 million after-tax) of restructuring,
        asset impairment and other charges recorded by the Company during
        fourth quarter 1997.  The charges reflect impairment of goodwill
        associated with KCSR's acquisition of MidSouth in 1993 and the
        Company's investment in Berger, long-lived assets held for disposal,
        impaired long-lived assets,  reserves related to termination of a union
        productivity fund and employee separations, and other reserves for
        leases, contracts and reorganization costs.  See Notes 1 and 3 to the
        consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.  Additionally,
        Transportation results for the year ended 1997 include revenues and
        expenses from Gateway Western.

  (ii)  Includes a one-time after-tax gain of $47.7 million representing the
        Company's proportionate share of the one-time gain recognized by DST in
        connection with the merger of Continuum with Computer Sciences
        Corporation (see Note 2).


     

     Consolidated 1997 revenues increased $211.0 million over 1996, reflecting
     improvements in both the Transportation and Financial Asset Management
     segments year to year.  While 1997 total operating income decreased from
     1996 by 48%, operating income exclusive of the restructuring, asset
     impairment and other charges increased nearly $100 million, indicative of 
     a higher rate of revenue growth compared to expenses.  The consolidated 
     loss of $14.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1997 includes $196.4
     million ($158.1 million after tax) in restructuring, asset impairment and
     other charges.  Consolidated net income of $150.9 million for the year
     ended 1996 includes a one-time gain of $47.7 million resulting from the
     Continuum transaction. Exclusive of these amounts, consolidated net income
     in 1997 was $144.0 million, or 40%, higher than 1996.  This increase
     reflects improvement in ongoing operations for both the Transportation and
     the Financial Asset Management segments, primarily from higher revenues 
     and improved operating margins. 

     Consolidated 1996 revenues increased $72.1 million over 1995 due to growth
     in Financial Asset Management assets under management during 1996,
     partially offset by a 4% decline in Transportation revenues.  Operating
     income increased 28% from higher revenues and improved margins in the
     Financial Asset Management segment.  While 1996 consolidated net income
     decreased by $85.8 million from 1995, exclusive of the Continuum gain in
     1996 and the gain from the DST public offering in 1995, net income
     increased $11.1 million, or 12%.   

     TRANSPORTATION (KCSL)
     

     Ongoing domestic Transportation segment earnings of $27.4 million for the
     year ended December 31, 1997 were compared to $16.3 million for the prior
     year, an increase of $11.1 million or 68%.  This increase was driven by
     revenue growth from $517.7 million to $573.2 million, chiefly due to 
     higher KCSR revenues and the addition of the Gateway Western, partially 
     offset by the loss of revenues from Southern Leasing Corporation, which was
     dissolved in the fourth quarter of 1996.  In addition, cost containment 
     initiatives by management in the second half of 1997 helped to increase 
     operating margins and contributed to higher earnings.  Transportation 
     expenses, exclusive of the restructuring, asset impairment and other 
     charges, increased $42.3 million, or 9.5% to $487.9 million for 1997 
     compared with $445.6 million for 1996.  The increase is attributable to 
     operating lease expenses resulting from the Southern Capital transaction 
     and the inclusion of Gateway Western expenses in 1997 (variable operating 
     expenses were essentially unchanged year to year).  Depreciation and 
     amortization expenses for the Transportation segment decreased $1.1 
     million (1.7%) from 1997 to 1996 due to the transfer of assets to Southern
     Capital during the fourth quarter of 1996, offset by the inclusion of 
     Gateway Western.

     The 1% increase in 1997 Transportation interest expense (to $53.3 million)
     is due to interest associated with the investment in Grupo TFM, together
     with interest on Gateway Western indebtedness, offset by debt repayments
     associated with the Southern Capital transaction. Capitalized interest
     related to the Company's Grupo TFM investment totaled $7.4 million for the
     year ended December 31, 1997, which ceased upon gaining operational 
     control of TFM on June 23, 1997.  

     

     The Transportation segment's contribution to the Company's consolidated
     earnings declined $2.4 million, or 12.8%, to $16.3 million for the year
     ended December 31, 1996 compared to $18.7 million (exclusive of 1995
     unusual costs of $19.2 million) for the year ended December 31, 1995. The
     portion of net income attributable to KCSR improved in 1996 primarily
     because of these unusual costs and expenses incurred in 1995 which offset
     revenue declines related to the effect of industry consolidation. Revenues
     declined $20.8 million, or 3.9%, primarily as a result of a decrease in
     KCSR revenues attributable to lower carloadings related to the competitive
     pressures from the various rail carrier mergers, a decline in Southern
     Leasing revenues and reduced Pabtex revenues.  Operating expenses,
     exclusive of depreciation and amortization, declined $16.6 million, or
     4.1%, to $382.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1996 from $399.3
     million for the year ended December 31, 1995.  However, if $19.2 million
     (after-tax) of certain 1995 unusual costs and expenses had been excluded,
     total operating expenses for 1996 would have increased over 1995.  This
     increase in 1996 is attributable to adverse winter weather in first 
     quarter 1996, train derailment expenses and expenditures associated with 
     KCSR's emphasis on providing improved and reliable customer service. 
     Depreciation and amortization expenses for the Transportation segment 
     increased $2.7 million (4.5%) from 1995 to 1996 due primarily to capital 
     expenditures.  

     Following is a detailed discussion of the primary subsidiaries comprising
     the Transportation segment.   Results of subsidiaries immaterial to the
     Company have been omitted.     

     THE KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
     KCSR operates in a nine state region, including Missouri, Kansas, 
     Arkansas, Oklahoma, Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, Louisiana, and Texas.
     KCSR has the shortest rail route between Kansas City and the Gulf of 
     Mexico, serving the ports of Beaumont and Port Arthur, Texas; and New 
     Orleans, Baton Rouge, Reserve and West Lake Charles, Louisiana.  Through
     haulage rights, KCSR accesses the states of Nebraska and Iowa, and serves
     the ports of Houston and Galveston, Texas.  Kansas City, Missouri, as the
     second largest rail center in the United States, represents an important
     interchange gateway for KCSR.  KCSR also has interchange gateways in New
     Orleans and Shreveport, Louisiana; Dallas and Beaumont, Texas; and Jackson
     and Meridian, Mississippi. 

     Major commodities moved by KCSR include coal, grain and farm products,
     petroleum, chemicals, paper and forest products, as well as other general
     commodities.  KCSR competes in the intermodal traffic market, including an
     East/West line running from Dallas, Texas to Meridian, Mississippi, which
     has allowed KCSR to be more competitive in transcontinental intermodal
     transportation.  Additionally, in November 1994, KCSR began dedicated
     through train service between Dallas, Texas and Meridian, Mississippi for
     intermodal traffic, which competes directly with truck carriers along the
     Interstate 20 corridor, offering service times which are competitive with
     both truck and other rail carriers. 
      
     Exclusive of the restructuring, asset impairment and other charges 
     recorded in fourth quarter 1997 discussed in "Results of Operation" above,
     KCSR contributed $27.4 million to the Company's consolidated earnings 
     compared to $17.1 million in 1996.  This increase is primarily due to a 
     $25.3 million increase in KCSR revenues offset by a lesser increase in 
     variable and fixed operating costs.
        
     In 1996, KCSR net income totaled $17.1 million compared to $11.4 million 
     in 1995. This increase was primarily attributable to the 1995 unusual 
     costs and expenses discussed in "Results of Operations" above, which 
     reduced KCSR net income by approximately $19.2 million in 1995.  Exclusive
     of the 1995 unusual costs and expenses, KCSR 1996 earnings were lower than
     1995, mainly due to reduced revenues and higher operating costs 
     attributable to adverse winter weather (in first quarter 1996), train 
     derailment expenses (primarily in second quarter 1996), and expenditures 
     associated with  KCSR's emphasis on providing improved and reliable 
     customer service. 

     

     Revenues
     


     1997 KCSR revenues were $25.3 million, or 5.1%, higher than 1996 due to a
     5.8% increase in general commodities and a 7.2% increase in intermodal
     revenues.  Agricultural and mineral products led general commodities with a
     13.3% increase over 1996 comprised primarily of domestic and export grain
     and food products. 

     1996 KCSR revenues were $9.6 million, or 1.9% lower than 1995 due to a 4%
     reduction in general commodities revenues, offset by an increase in
     intermodal and other revenues.  In particular, revenues decreased in grain
     traffic (26%), bulk commodities (such as non-metallic minerals and
     petroleum coke - 9%), and paper/forest products (4%).  These lower general
     commodities revenues were primarily due to a 7.8% decrease in carloading
     volumes resulting from competitive pressures from the various rail 
     mergers, offset partially by slightly improved average revenue per carload
     as a result of changes in the mix of general commodities traffic (e.g., 
     fewer carloadings of paper/forest products compared to chemical and 
     petroleum products in 1996 versus 1995).

     The following is a discussion of KCSR's major commodity groups.

     Coal
     KCSR delivers coal to seven electric generating plants, located at
     Amsterdam, Missouri; Flint Creek, Arkansas; Welsh, Texas; Mossville,
     Louisiana; Kansas City, Missouri; Pittsburg, Kansas; and Hugo, Oklahoma. 
     Two coal customers, Southwestern Electric Power Company ("SWEPCO") and
     Entergy Gulf States (formerly Gulf States Utility Company), comprised
     approximately 82% and 83% of total coal revenues generated by KCSR in 1997
     and 1996, respectively.  KCSR also delivers lignite to an electric
     generating plant at Monticello, Texas ("TUMCO").  KCSR's contract with
     SWEPCO, its largest customer, extends through the year ended 2006.  Coal
     revenues for the periods presented reflect the historical tendencies of
     unit coal revenues to equalize on an annual basis.

     Coal continues to be the largest single commodity handled by KCSR,
     generating $101.4 million of revenue in 1997, unchanged from 1996.  Coal
     traffic comprised 20.7% of carload revenues and 21.6% of carloads in 1997
     compared with 21.6% and 22.2%, respectively, in 1996 indicating the growth
     realized in other commodities.

     Coal revenues decreased $1.2 million or 1.2% to $101.4 for the year ended
     December 31, 1996 from $102.6 million for the year ended December 31, 
     1995, as a result of an overall decrease in unit coal traffic.  Coal 
     accounted  for 21.6% of carload revenues in 1996 compared with 21.3% in 
     1995.

     

     Chemicals and Petroleum
     Chemical and petroleum products, serviced via tank and hopper cars
     primarily to markets in the Southeast and Northeast through interchange
     with other rail carriers, as a combined group represent the largest
     commodity to KCSR in terms of revenue. ($133.1 million in 1997 versus $129
     million in 1996).  This $4.1 million increase, or 3.2% increase, results
     primarily from increased revenues in plastics, miscellaneous chemical, 
     soda ash and petroleum shipments offset by reduced petroleum coke 
     shipments.  Chemical and petroleum products accounted for 27.1% of total 
     1997 carload revenues compared with 27.5% for 1996. These revenues could 
     grow in future years as a result of KCSR's petition seeking approval 
     from the STB for construction of a nine mile rail line 
     connecting the manufacturing facilities of BASF Corporation, 
     Shell Chemical Company and Borden Chemical and Plastics in Geismar, 
     Louisiana, a large industrial corridor with several other companies 
     engaged in the petrochemical industry, with KCSR's main line just north 
     of Sorrento, Louisiana.

     Chemical and petroleum revenues were essentially unchanged at $129 million
     in 1996 compared with $129.3 million for 1995 as increases in 
     miscellaneous petroleum and soda ash traffic were offset by lower 
     petroleum coke volumes.  Chemical and petroleum products accounted for 
     27.5% of total 1996 carload revenues compared with 26.9% for 1995. 

     Paper and Forest
     KCSR, whose rail line runs through the heart of the southeastern U.S.
     timber producing region, serves eleven paper mills directly (including
     International Paper Co. and Georgia Pacific, among others) and six others
     indirectly through short-line connections, and transports pulpwood,
     woodchips and raw fiber used in the production of paper, pulp and
     paperboard.

     Paper and forest products revenues increased $2.9 million, or 2.8%, to
     $106.4 million for the year ended December 31, 1997 from $103.5 million
     from the year ended December 31, 1996 as a result of increased carloads 
     for lumber/plywood and higher revenues per carload for pulpwood and 
     woodchips offset by decreased pulpwood and woodchips carloads.   Paper 
     and forest traffic comprised 21.7% of carload revenues in 1997 as 
     compared to 22.1% in 1996.

     In 1996, paper and forest products revenues decreased $3.8 million, or
     3.5%,  from 1995 due to  a decline in pulpwood and woodchips carloads.  
     Paper and forest products accounted for 22.1% of total 1996 carload
     revenues compared with 22.3% in 1995. 

     Agricultural and Mineral
     Agricultural and mineral products revenues for 1997 increased $10 million,
     or 13.3%, compared to 1996 primarily as a result of higher carloads of
     grain, especially corn, due to a strong harvest.   Additionally, carloads
     of nonmetallic minerals increased approximately 18% over 1996 volume. 
     Agricultural and mineral products accounted for 17.3% of carload revenues
     in 1997 compared with 16% in 1996.

     During 1996, revenues from agricultural and mineral products declined 
     $10.9 million, or 12.7%, compared to 1995, largely from significantly re-
     duced domestic and export grain traffic.  This decline is attributable to 
     traffic diversions resulting from the various rail mergers and the impact 
     of weaker grain movements in early 1996. 

     Intermodal
     The intermodal freight business consists of hauling freight containers or
     truck trailers by a combination of water, rail and motor carriers, with
     rail carriers serving as the links between motor carriers and ports. In
     1994, KCSR increased its share of the U.S. intermodal traffic primarily
     through the acquisition of the MidSouth, which extended the Company's
     east/west line running from Dallas, Texas to Shreveport, Louisiana to
     Meridian, Mississippi.


     

     Intermodal revenues for 1997 of $43.2 million increased $2.9 million, or
     7.2% from 1996 revenues of $40.3 million primarily as a result of in-
     creased carloads, offset by a slight decrease in revenue per carload. 
     Revenues from United Parcel Service of America, one of KCSR's largest 
     customers, declined slightly due to the International Brotherhood of 
     Teamsters strike in August 1997; however, the strike's overall impact on 
     KCSR's operating results and financial condition was not material. During 
     1997, the Company committed to a plan to pursue intermodal business 
     based on operating margin versus growth through carload volume.  
     Intermodal traffic accounted for 8.8% of carload revenues in 1997 
     compared with 8.6% in 1996.  

     KCSR's 1996 intermodal carload volume continued the growth trend
     experienced in 1995, increasing revenues 3.3%, due to KCSR's continued
     marketing efforts to expand east/west intermodal traffic, despite a flat
     intermodal market in general.

     Certain segments of KCSR's freight traffic, especially intermodal, face 
     highly price and service sensitive competition from trucks, although 
     improvements in railroad operating efficiencies are believed to be
     lessening the truckers' cost advantages.  Trucks are not obligated to 
     provide or to maintain rights of way and do not have to pay real estate
     taxes on their routes.  In recent years, the trucking industry diverted
     a substantial amount of freight from the railroads as truck operators'
     efficiency over long distances increased.  Because fuel costs constitute
     a larger percentage of the trucking industry's costs, declining fuel
     prices disproportionately benefit trucking operations as compared to
     railroad operations.  Changing regulations, subsidized highway improve-
     ment programs and favorable labor regulations have improved the
     competitive position of trucks as an alternative mode of surface 
     transportation for many commodities.  In recent years, railroad industry
     management has sought avenues for improving its competitive positions,
     and forged alliances with truck companies in order to move more traffic by
     rail and provide faster, safer and more efficient service to its 
     customers.  KCSR has streamlined its intermodal operations in the last
     few years, making its service competitive both in price and service with
     trucking, and has entered into agreements with several truck companies for
     through train intermodal service between Dallas, Texas and Meridian, 
     Mississippi.  KCSR has increased its intermodal traffic through its
     connections with eastern railroads.

     Other
     KCSR's remaining freight business consists of scrap and slab steel, waste,
     military equipment and automobiles.  Other revenues accounted for 4.4% of
     carload revenues during 1997,  4.2% in 1996 and 3.6% in 1995 with no
     material variances.

     

     Costs and Expenses

     

     General
     KCSR's costs and expenses, excluding depreciation and amortization,
     increased $187.5 million, or 52%, to $546.8 million for the year ended
     December 31, 1997 from $359.3 million in 1996.  However, if the
     restructuring, asset impairment and other charges of $163.8 million
     ($132.9 million after-tax) in 1997 had been excluded, total costs and 
     expenses would have increased only $23.7 million, or 6.6% over 1996, 
     primarily as a result of increased fuel costs and operating lease 
     expenses.  Diesel fuel usage increased as expected due to both an 
     increase in ton miles and carloads, while fuel prices were 
     essentially unchanged.  Costs related to fixed equipment operating 
     leases increased as a result of the Southern Capital transaction (note,
     however, that the Company records equity earnings from Southern Capital 
     which partially mitigates this increase). 

     Overall, KCSR variable operating expenses, exclusive of restructuring,
     asset impairment and other charges, declined 2.9% as a percentage of
     revenues from 1996 indicative of a higher rate of growth for KCSR revenues
     than costs.  The improved cost structure results from cost containment
     initiatives implemented by management.   Improvements in variable expenses
     were somewhat offset by increases in fixed expenses, primarily related to
     lease expenses associated with Southern Capital in the fourth quarter of
     1996, as discussed above. 

     As discussed in "Results of Operations" above, KCSR recorded
     restructuring, asset impairment and other charges during fourth quarter
     1997.  As a result, salaries and wages expense and depreciation and
     amortization are expected to decline in 1998.

     Despite the decrease in total KCSR revenues in 1996 versus 1995, KCSR 1996
     operating income increased $7.5 million as a result of a 5.5% decrease in
     costs and expenses (to $359.3 million) compared to 1995.  This decrease is
     attributable to the 1995 unusual costs and expenses. Exclusive of the 1995
     unusual items, 1996 costs and expenses were higher than 1995 primarily due
     to adverse winter weather (in first quarter 1996), train derailment ex-
     penses, and KCSR's continuing emphasis on providing improved and reliable
     customer service.  Increased costs were evident in salaries and wages,
     material and supplies and casualties/insurance.  KCSR management
     implemented various cost containment measures during third quarter, which
     stabilized expenses somewhat in the second half of 1996, particularly in
     salaries and wages and car hire costs. 

     

     Fuel
     KCSR locomotive fuel usage represented 5.8% of KCSR operating costs in 
     1997 (7.7% in 1996).  Exclusive of restructuring, asset impairment and 
     other charges, locomotive fuel usage represented 7.9% of operating costs,
     consistent with 1996.  Fuel costs are affected by traffic levels,
     efficiency of operations and equipment, and petroleum market conditions. 
     Control of fuel expenses is a constant concern of management, and fuel
     savings remains a top priority.  To control fuel costs, based on favorable
     market conditions at the end of 1995, the Company entered into purchase
     commitments for approximately 50% of expected 1996 diesel fuel usage. As a
     result of increasing fuel prices during 1996, these commitments saved KCSR
     approximately $3.7 million. Due to higher fuel prices, minimal commitments
     were made for 1997.

     Roadway Maintenance
     Portions of roadway maintenance costs are capitalized and other portions
     expensed (as components of material and supplies, purchased services and
     other), as appropriate.  Expenses aggregated $47, $51 and $49 million for
     1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  Maintenance and capital improvement
     programs are in conformity with the Federal Railroad Administration's 
     track standards and are accounted for in accordance with the regulatory
     accounting rules.  Management expects to continue to fund roadway
     maintenance expenditures with internally generated cash flows.

     Car Hire
     Expenses for car hire payable, net of receivables declined $3.8 million, 
     or 51.3% for the year ended December 31, 1997 compared to 1996.  This
     reduction in net expense results from several factors including better
     fleet utilization and increased amounts of car hire receivable related to
     KCSR owned equipment utilization on foreign railroads.  This was
     particularly evident as a result of the congestion difficulties of the UP
     where KCSR equipment was held on UP lines for longer than normal periods.

     Costs related to car hire in 1996 declined to $7.4 million versus $21.3
     million in 1995, principally resulting from unusual costs and expenses
     experienced during 1995, discussed elsewhere.  However, these costs also
     declined in 1996 from better fleet utilization and KCSR owned intermodal
     trailers off-line earning car hire.

     Casualties and Insurance
     Casualties and insurance expense declined $1.7 million, or 7.4% to $21.4
     million for the year ended December 31, 1997 compared to $23.1 million in
     1996.  The reduction in casualties and insurance costs from 1996 resulted
     from a reduction in derailment costs and reduced injuries, in part, caused
     by KCSR ongoing safety initiatives.

     Excluding the unusual costs and expenses in 1995, costs actually rose for
     the year ended December 31, 1996 compared to 1995.  This increase was the
     direct result of increased derailment related costs, while employee
     injuries declined.

     Depreciation and amortization
     KCSR depreciation and amortization expense declined $4.4 million, or 7.4%
     to $54.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1997 from $59.1 million
     from the year ended December 31, 1996, primarily due to the transfer of
     assets to Southern Capital during the fourth quarter of 1996, offset by
     1997 capital expenditures.

     KCSR depreciation and amortization expense increased 6.9% to $59.1 million
     in 1996 (versus $55.3 million in 1995) due to capital expenditures.  The
     depreciation savings associated with KCSR's October 1996 contribution of
     locomotives and rolling stock to Southern Capital was minimal in 1996, 
     but, as discussed above was greater in 1997 due to a full year of savings.

     

     Operating Ratio
     The operating ratio is a common efficiency measurement among Class I
     railroads.  Exclusive of the  restructuring, asset impairment and other
     charges, the impact of KCSR's increased revenues and reduced costs 
     resulted in an improved KCSR operating ratio of 83.4% for the year 
     ended December 31, 1997, which is below the 84.5% operating ratio 
     for 1996.  This reflects the marked improvement made during the last 
     six months of 1997 in which the average operating ratio was 79.3%, as 
     a result of increased margins arising primarily from cost containment 
     initiatives by management.  Further, the operating ratio for 1997 would 
     have been 81.4% except for the shifting of interest costs to lease 
     expense as a result of the Southern Capital transaction.

     KCSR's operating ratio decreased to 84.5% for the year ended December 31,
     1996 versus 84.8% for 1995. Excluding unusual costs and expenses, the 1995
     operating ratio would have been 78.9%, with the increase in 1996 largely
     due to lower revenues and higher costs and expenses as discussed above. 
     Additionally, the Southern Capital joint venture transaction, while
     slightly increasing KCSR's overall net income in 1996, raised the 
     operating ratio by approximately one-half percent for the year 
     ended 1996 as a result of higher equipment lease expense.  The 
     operating ratio for 1997 and thereafter has been or will be affected by 
     higher equipment lease expense resulting from the operating leases 
     entered into by KCSR with Southern Capital.

     KCSR Interest
     Interest expense decreased $11.5 million, or 23.3%, to $37.9 million in
     1997 from $49.4 million in 1996 due to a full year's impact of the debt
     reduction associated with the Southern Capital transaction. 

     Interest expense was 3% lower in 1996 compared to 1995 due to a reduction
     in debt during the fourth quarter 1996 resulting from the Southern Capital
     joint venture formation and associated transactions.

     GATEWAY WESTERN
     During the year ended December 31, 1997, Gateway Western contributed $3.0
     million to the Company's net income arising from freight revenues of $42.7
     million, offset by operating expenses of $35.2 million and other expenses
     of $4.5 million. 

     At December 31, 1996, while the Company awaited approval from the Surface
     Transportation Board of KCSI's purchase, Gateway Western was accounted for
     under the equity method as a majority-owned unconsolidated subsidiary. 

     UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
     During 1997, the Transportation segment's unconsolidated affiliates were
     comprised primarily of Grupo TFM, Mexrail, and Southern Capital.  During
     1996, the two primary unconsolidated affiliates were Mexrail and Southern
     Capital.  During 1995, unconsolidated affiliates were immaterial to the
     Transportation segment's operations.

     For the year ended December 31, 1997, the Transportation segment recorded 
     a loss of $9.7 million from unconsolidated affiliates compared to income 
     of $1.5 million for 1996. In 1997, estimated losses of $12.9 million (from
     June 23, 1997, excluding interest) related to Grupo TFM were partially
     offset by equity in earnings from Southern Capital and Mexrail.  Grupo TFM
     experienced higher than expected revenues during 1997 based on increased
     carloads, offset by higher operating expenses necessary to maintain
     expected customer service levels. Also affecting Grupo TFM's results was a
     write-off of a bridge loan commitment fee during 1997 (of which the 
     Company recorded $2.6 million as its proportionate share). 

     Equity earnings increased to $1.5 million for 1996 from 1995 primarily as 
     a result of the inclusion of a full year of equity earnings from Mexrail 
     and two months of equity earnings from Southern Capital. 

     

     OTHER TRANSPORTATION-RELATED AFFILIATES AND HOLDING COMPANY COMPONENTS
     Other subsidiaries in the Transportation segment include: 
     * Trans-Serve, Inc., an owner of a railroad wood tie treating facility;
     * Pabtex (located in Port Arthur, Texas with deep water access to the Gulf
       of Mexico), an owner and operator of a bulk materials handling facility
       which stores and transfers coal and petroleum coke from trucks and rail
       cars to ships and barges primarily for export;
     * Mid-South Microwave, Inc., which owns and leases a 1,600 mile industrial
       frequency microwave transmission system that is the primary
       communications facility used by KCSR;
     * Rice-Carden Corporation and Tolmak, Inc., both owning and operating
       various industrial real estate and spur rail trackage contiguous to the
       KCSR right-of-way;
     * Southern Development Company, the owner of the executive office building
       in downtown Kansas City, Missouri used by KCSI and KCSR; and
     * Wyandotte Garage, an owner and operator of a parking facility located in
       downtown Kansas City, Missouri used by KCSI and KCSR.

     During 1997, contributions to net income from other Transportation-related
     affiliates decreased $12.4 million, primarily as a result of $14.2 million
     of asset impairment charges recorded during fourth quarter 1997 relating
     to Pabtex and certain real estate.  In addition, Pabtex continued to
     experience decreased revenues resulting from the loss of petroleum coke
     customers. 

     There were no material changes in these subsidiaries during 1996 compared
     with 1995 except for a $2.2 million decrease in Pabtex earnings as a 
     result of the loss of a major customer in December 1995.

     KCSL HOLDING COMPANY
     1997 KCSL Holding company costs did not materially change from 1996 levels
     (based on amounts attributed to the Transportation segment by the KCSI
     Holding Company).  During 1996, higher allocated holding company costs,
     primarily due to the Company's activities related to the UP/SP merger 
     ($2.9 million after-tax) and business development costs related to the 
     investment in Mexico contributed to a decrease in net income in 1996
     compared with 1995.

     TRANSPORTATION SEGMENT TRENDS and OUTLOOK
     Since 1994, there has been significant consolidation among major U.S. 
     Class I rail carriers.  Management believes these recent mergers have 
     negatively impacted revenues, primarily as a result of rail traffic 
     diverted away from KCSR's lines and correspondingly lower carloadings.  
     While KCSR has begun to show positive revenue growth across most commodity
     groups, these rail mergers could still have a negative impact on future 
     revenues as a result of increased competition.  Assuming no major 
     economic deterioration occurs in the region serviced by the Company's 
     Transportation segment, management expects 1998 revenues and carloads to 
     increase over 1997.  Additionally, KCSR cost containment initiatives are
     expected to continue into 1998.

     Although revenues have been higher than expected during the first year of
     TFM's operations (since June 23, 1997), management expects to continue to
     record losses from its investment in Grupo TFM during 1998; however, these
     losses are expected to be partially offset by equity earnings from the
     Southern Capital and Mexrail investments.

     

     FINANCIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT

     The Financial Asset Management segment contributed $118.0 million to the
     Company's consolidated results in 1997, a $16.6 million decline from 1996.
     Exclusive of certain items in both years as discussed in the "Results of
     Operations" section above, however, earnings improved 54%.  Revenues
     increased $155.5 million over 1996, leading to higher operating income and
     improved operating margins.  Operating margins increased from 40% for the
     year ended December 31, 1996 to 45% for 1997.  Assets under management
     increased 42% during 1997, reaching $71.6 billion at December 31, 1997. 
     Further, shareowner accounts exceeded 2,850,000 as of December 31, 1997, a
     6% increase over 1996.  

     Financial Asset Management contributed $134.6 million to 1996 consolidated
     earnings.  Exclusive of the 1996 Continuum gain and the 1995 gain from the
     DST public offering, Financial Asset Management earnings increased 18% 
     year to year.  Assets under management at December 31, 1996 were 46%  
     higher than year end 1995, fueling a 38% growth in 1996 revenues. Although
     variable operating expenses increased in 1996, the increase was at a lower
     proportionate rate than revenues, resulting in a 64% improvement in
     operating income over 1995 ($131.8 million in 1996 versus $80.2 million in
     1995).  The increase in variable operating expenses was associated with
     higher business volumes, as well as higher Janus performance-based
     compensation.  
     


 (i)  The Janus Aspen Series currently consists of
      eleven portfolios offered through variable annuity and variable life
      insurance contracts, and certain qualified pension plans
(ii)  Janus serves as subadvisor to five of the IDEX Funds, whose assets are
      included herein

     

     

     Financial Asset Management revenue and operating income increases are a
     direct result of increases in assets under management.  Assets under
     management and shareholder accounts have grown in recent years from a
     combination of new money investments (i.e., fund sales) and market
     appreciation.  Fund sales have risen in response to marketing efforts,
     favorable fund performance, introduction and market reception of new
     products, and the current popularity of no-load mutual funds.  Market
     appreciation has resulted from increases in investment values.

     JANUS CAPITAL CORPORATION
     Janus assets under management increased 45% during 1997, resulting in a
     52% increase in revenues and a 64% increase in operating income.  This
     increase in assets under management (to $67.8 billion as of December 31,
     1997) was a result of fund sales (net of redemptions) of $10.7 billion
     and market appreciation of $10.4 billion.  Total Janus shareowner
     accounts grew 10% during 1997 to 2.5 million.

     As a result of a slower rate of growth in expenses compared to revenues
     during 1997, operating margins improved to 50% for 1997 versus 46% in
     comparable 1996.  Janus experienced an increase in salaries and wages
     expense, primarily from a higher number of employees in 1997 and variable
     compensation tied to investment and financial performance.  Additionally,
     alliance fees increased due to a greater amount of assets being
     distributed through these channels. Approximately 43% of Janus' operating
     expenses consist of variable costs that generally increase or decrease in
     association with revenue generated from assets under management.  An
     additional 15% of operating expenses (principally marketing, pension plan
     contributions and temporary help) are discretionary.

     Janus 1996 revenues, operating income and net income increased
     significantly over 1995, largely due to 50% growth in assets under
     management since December 31, 1995.  Fund sales (net of redemptions) of
     $9.3 billion, coupled with market appreciation, raised total assets under
     management to $46.7 billion at December 31, 1996.  The value of net
     assets in the Janus Funds increased 51% to $37.1 billion at December 31,
     1996 versus $24.6 billion at December 31, 1995.  Shareowner accounts grew
     to 2.3 million, a 9% increase over 1995. 

     Operating expenses increased as a result of higher business volumes,
     together with increases in incentive and variable compensation as a
     result of strong investment and financial performance.  However,
     operating expenses declined as a percent of revenue due to successful
     cost containment efforts, including a $5.1 million decrease in
     promotional and marketing expenses from 1995 due to a more focused
     marketing approach.  Additionally, depreciation and amortization costs
     declined approximately $1.9 million due to the disposal of equipment
     during 1996.

     General
     Increases in assets under management in 1997 and 1996 are attributable to
     several factors including, among others: (i) strong securities markets,
     particularly equities; (ii) favorable investment performance,
     particularly among Janus' global and international investment products;
     (iii) effective marketing and public relations; (iv) effective use of
     third party distribution for both retail and sub-advised products; and
     (v) a strong brand awareness in the direct channel. 

     The Janus Funds are marketed to pension plan sponsors through alliance
     arrangements with record keeping organizations and by participating in
     mutual fund "supermarkets".  At December 31, 1997 and 1996,
     approximately 28% and 23%, respectively, of Janus' total assets under
     management were generated through such alliance arrangements and mutual
     fund "supermarkets".

     Janus also markets advisory services directly to insurance companies,
     banks and brokerage firms for their proprietary investment products, and
     directly with private individuals, foundations, defined benefit pension
     plans and other organizations.  These areas accounted for $14.9, $9.6 and
     $6.5 billion in assets under management at December 31, 1997, 1996 and
     1995, respectively.

     

     Janus introduced the following funds during the three year period ended
     December 31, 1997:
       1997 - Janus Aspen Capital Appreciation Portfolio; Janus Aspen Equity
              Income Portfolio
       1996 - Janus Aspen High Yield Portfolio; Janus Equity Income Fund;
              Janus Special Situations Fund
       1995 - Janus Olympus Fund; Janus High Yield Fund; Janus Money Market
              Funds

     BERGER ASSOCIATES, INC.
     Berger reported a net loss of $17.8 million in 1997.  Excluding the
     charges associated with the impairment of goodwill associated with the
     Company's investment in Berger and reserves for certain contracts (as
     discussed in "Results of Operations" above), Berger reported a net loss
     of $3.5 million in 1997 compared to a loss of $1.2 million in 1996. 
     Assets under management increased to $3.8 billion at December 31, 1997
     from $3.6 billion at December 31, 1996, resulting in a slight increase in
     revenues year to year.  Operating costs, however, increased more than
     revenues thereby resulting in a higher net loss than prior year.  Higher
     expenses were evident in consulting fees, advertising and amortization of
     intangibles.  Shareholder accounts declined 16% from 1996, totaling
     317,400 at December 31, 1997.

     As discussed in the "Results of Operations," in 1997, the Company
     increased its ownership in Berger to 100% through several transactions by
     Berger and the Company.  The Company recorded approximately $17.8 million
     of intangibles as a result of these transactions. 

     In connection with the Company's review of the recoverability of its
     assets, the Company determined that $12.7 million of goodwill associated
     with Berger was not recoverable as of December 31, 1997, primarily due to
     below-peer performance and growth of the core Berger funds.  Accordingly,
     a portion of the goodwill recorded in connection with the repurchase of
     Berger minority interest was charged to expense.

     Berger contributed a net loss of $1.2 million to consolidated earnings in
     1996.  Assets under management increased 6% to $3.6 billion at December
     31, 1996 (compared to $3.4 billion at December 31, 1995), leading to an
     8% increase in revenues.  However, increased operating costs, partially
     due to amortization associated with intangibles, more than offset this
     increase in revenues.  Amortization increased as a result of the $23.9
     million payment made in May 1996 pursuant to the Berger Stock Purchase
     Agreement (as discussed in "Results of Operations" above). 
     Additionally, 1996 interest expense was higher than 1995 due to
     indebtedness incurred to fund the May 1996 contingency payment. 
     Shareholder accounts totaled 379,500 at December 31, 1996, a slight
     decrease from year end 1995.

     General
     During 1997, Berger introduced four new funds:  the Berger Small Cap
     Value Fund; the Berger Balanced Fund; the Berger Mid Cap Fund; and the
     Berger Select Fund.  These funds held approximately $155 million of
     assets under management at December 31, 1997. 

     While the Berger 100 Fund ("100 Fund") experienced a 14% decline in
     assets under management during 1997 (primarily related to below-peer
     performance) all other Berger Funds reported growth in assets.  Berger
     made certain changes in the portfolio management of the 100 Fund during
     1997.  Management believes these changes will improve Berger's
     opportunity for growth in the future.

     Both the Berger Small Company Growth Fund and The Berger New Generation
     Fund reported steady growth in assets under management throughout 1996
     (cumulatively increasing 55% from year end 1995).  However, the Berger
     100 Fund and the Berger Growth and Income Fund, together representing
     over 64% of total Berger assets under management, performed below their
     respective peer groups, and their total assets under management decreased
     7% since December 31, 1995. 

     

     As discussed in "Results of Operations" above, Berger entered into a
     joint venture (BBOI) to introduce a series of international and global
     mutual funds. The first no-load mutual fund product, an international
     equity fund, was introduced in fourth quarter 1996.  Total BBOI assets
     under management at December 31, 1997 were $161 million.  Berger accounts
     for its 50% investment in BBOI under the equity method.

     At December 31, 1997 and 1996, approximately 26% and 27%, respectively,
     of Berger's total assets under management were generated through mutual
     fund "supermarkets."

     OTHER FINANCIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT-RELATED AFFILIATES AND HOLDING COMPANY
     COMPONENTS

     Equity in Earnings of DST
     Equity in net earnings of DST for the year ended December 31, 1997 totaled
     $24.3 million.  Exclusive of the one-time gain on the Continuum merger
     discussed in "Results of Operations" above, equity earnings from DST
     increased 48% year to year.  This increase in DST earnings reflects an
     increase in 1997 DST revenues compared to 1996 (improvements in both
     domestic and international revenues) and improved operating margins in 
     1997 (14.2% versus 9.8% in 1996).

     Equity in net earnings of DST totaled $68.1 million for the year ended
     December 31, 1996.  This total includes KCSI's proportionate share of the
     DST one-time gain on the Continuum merger discussed in "Results of
     Operations" above.  Exclusive of this non-recurring item, equity earnings
     from DST of $16.4 million decreased approximately 33% from the $24.6
     million in 1995.  This decrease is attributable to a lower percentage
     ownership of DST in 1996 versus 1995 as discussed earlier.  In addition to
     the gain on the Continuum merger, comparisons of DST earnings in 1996
     versus 1995 were affected by several factors, including:  i) a 1995 after-
     tax gain of $4.7 million associated with DST's sale of an equity
     investment, Investors Fiduciary Trust Company Holdings, Inc.; ii) lower
     fourth quarter 1995 equity earnings due to an estimated $8.4 million loss
     recorded by DST in connection with acquisition related expenses of DST's
     Continuum investment; iii) the first quarter 1996 effect of a $4.1 million
     non-recurring charge related to Continuum; iv) a 20% increase in revenues
     over 1995; and v) a $15.0 million decline in interest costs from 1995.

     KCSI HOLDING COMPANY
     1997 KCSI Holding company results did not materially change from 1995
     through 1997 (based on amounts that were not attributed to the
     Transportation segment by the KCSI Holding Company).  Fluctuations year to
     year in costs and expenses and interest expense have been essentially
     offset by changes in interest income and other income.  1997 results
     include a $3.1 million reserve related to a non-core investment entity of
     the Company.

     FINANCIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT TRENDS and OUTLOOK
     Future growth of the Company's Financial Asset Management revenues and
     operating income will be largely dependent on prevailing financial market
     conditions, relative performance of Janus' and Berger's products,
     introduction and market reception of new products, as well as other
     factors, including changes in the stock and bond markets, increases in the
     rate of return of alternative investments, increasing competition as the
     number of mutual funds continues to grow, and changes in marketing and
     distribution channels.  Costs and expenses should continue at operating
     levels consistent with the rate of growth, if any, in revenues.

     

     INTEREST EXPENSE
     Consolidated interest expense increased 7% in 1997 to $63.7 million
     compared to $59.6 million in 1996. This increase is attributable to higher
     average debt balances throughout 1997, primarily resulting from borrowings
     incurred to fund the Company's investment in Grupo TFM and first quarter
     1997 common stock repurchases.  Interest expense related to the
     indebtedness incurred in connection with the Company's investment in Grupo
     TFM was capitalized until the final installment of the TFM purchase price
     was made (June 23, 1997).  Capitalized interest totaled $7.4 million for
     the year ended December 31, 1997. 

     Consolidated interest expense decreased 9% in 1996 to $59.6 million versus
     $65.5 million in 1995.  This decrease resulted from lower average debt
     balances throughout 1996, largely due to lower year end 1995 debt balances
     as a result of the repayment of indebtedness using the proceeds received 
     in connection with the DST public offering and associated transactions. 
     Additionally, interest savings from the October 1996 Southern Capital 
     joint venture formation and associated transactions substantially offset 
     interest associated with borrowings throughout 1996 used to repurchase 
     Company common stock.

     Management expects interest expense to be higher in 1998 compared to 1997
     because the Company will not capitalize any interest in 1998 associated
     with the borrowings in connection with the Company's investment in Grupo
     TFM.  However, as a significant portion of the Company's debt at December
     31, 1997 represents fixed rate debt instruments, the Company's risk to
     increasing interest rates is somewhat mitigated.

     OTHER, NET
     Generally, modest fluctuations have occurred within this component from
     1995 to 1997.  The 7% decrease in 1997 from 1996 is partially attributable
     to the 1996 one-time gain of approximately $2.9 million recorded by KCSR 
     in connection with the sale of real estate.  The increase in 1996 from 
     1995 is largely due to this one-time gain, partially offset by higher 
     1995 interest income from advances to DST throughout the first nine 
     months of 1995.


     LIQUIDITY

     Operating Cash Flows.  The Company's cash flow from operations has
     historically been positive and sufficient to fund operations, KCSR roadway
     capital improvements and debt service.  External sources of cash -
     principally negotiated bank debt, public debt and sales of investments -
     have typically been used to fund acquisitions, new investments, equipment
     additions and Company stock repurchases.
      
     The following table summarizes consolidated operating cash flow
     information.  Financial information for the year ended December 31, 1995
     was restated to reflect DST as an unconsolidated affiliate as of January 
     1, 1995 due to the DST public offering and associated transactions 
     completed in November 1995, which reduced the Company's ownership in DST 
     to approximately 41%.  Certain reclassifications have been made to prior
     years' information to conform to current year presentation.

     

     

     (i) Gain associated with DST public offering
     (ii)Exclusive of the tax components related to the gain on sale of equity
         investment

     Operating cash flows for the year ended December 31, 1997 nearly doubled
     when compared to the prior year, primarily because of the 1996 payment of
     approximately $74 million in federal and state income taxes resulting from
     the taxable gains associated with the DST public stock offering completed
     in November 1995.  Also, exclusive of the restructuring, asset impairment
     and other charges recorded in fourth quarter 1997, the one-time Continuum
     gain in 1997 and equity earnings from unconsolidated affiliates for both
     years, earnings were approximately $44.0 million higher in 1997 than 1996.

     1996 operating cash flows decreased by $230.9 million from 1995, largely
     attributable to the $150 million dividend paid by DST to the Company in
     1995, together with a significant decrease in accrued liabilities as a
     result of the payment (in 1996) of approximately $74 million in federal 
     and state income taxes associated with the taxable gains from the DST 
     stock offering in November 1995.
     

     In early 1998, KCSR satisfied its obligation with respect to the
     productivity fund termination liability, which is reflected in the
     Company's balance sheet as of December 31, 1997.  This amount was funded
     with existing lines of credit. 

     Investing Cash Flows.  Cash was used for the following investing
     activities:  i) property acquisitions of $83, $144 and $121 million in
     1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively; and ii) investments in and loans with
     affiliates of $304, $42 and $95 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
     respectively. Included in the 1997 investments in affiliates total was the
     Company's approximate $298 million capital contribution to Grupo TFM. 

     

     Due to growth throughout 1997 and 1996, Janus had invested an additional
     $32 and $39 million in short-term investments representing invested cash 
     at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  Also, cash received during 
     1996 in connection with the Southern Capital joint venture formation and
     associated transactions (approximately $217 million, after consideration 
     of related income taxes) is included as proceeds from disposal of 
     property and from disposal of other investments based on the underlying 
     assets contributed/sold to Southern Capital. 

     In 1995, the DST stock offering and debt repayment to KCSI resulted in 
     $276 million of proceeds to the Company (prior to payment of income 
     taxes, which occurred in 1996). 

     Generally, operating cash flows and borrowings under lines of credit have
     been used to finance property acquisitions and investments in and loans
     with affiliates during the period from 1995 to 1997.

     Financing Cash Flows.  Financing cash flows include: (i) borrowings of
     $340, $234 and $98 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively; (ii)
     repayment of indebtedness in the amounts of $110, $233 and $371 million in
     1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively; and (iii) cash dividends of $15, $15 
     and $10 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

     1997 debt proceeds were used to fund the $298 million Grupo TFM capital
     contribution, repurchase Company common stock ($39 million) and for
     additional investment in Berger ($3 million).  Proceeds from the issuance
     of debt in 1996 were used for stock repurchases ($151 million), additional
     investment in Berger ($24 million), and for working capital purposes ($59
     million, including payments of federal and state income taxes associated
     with the DST public offering).  Debt proceeds in 1995 were used for stock
     repurchases ($12 million) and subsidiary refinancing and working capital
     ($86 million).  
      
     Repayment of indebtedness includes scheduled maturities and reductions of
     outstanding lines of credit.  In 1997, operating cash flows were used to
     reduce amounts outstanding under the Company's lines of credit.  In 1996,
     proceeds (approximately $217 million, after consideration of income taxes)
     received in connection with the Southern Capital joint venture formation
     and associated transactions were used to repay outstanding amounts under
     the Company's lines of credit.  In 1995, proceeds received from the DST
     public offering and repayment by DST of indebtedness to KCSI were used to
     repay outstanding amounts under existing lines of credit.

     Repurchases of Company common stock during the three year period ended
     December 31, 1997 were funded with borrowings under existing lines of
     credit (as noted above), proceeds received from the DST public offering 
     and repayment by DST of indebtedness to KCSI, and the $150 million 
     dividend from DST in 1995.

     See discussion under "Financial Instruments and Purchase Commitments" for
     information relative to certain anticipated 1998 cash expenditures.
               
     CAPITAL STRUCTURE
      
     Capital Requirements.  The Company has traditionally funded KCSR capital
     expenditures using Equipment Trust Certificates for major purchases of
     locomotive and rolling stock, while using internally generated cash flows
     or leasing for other equipment.  Capital improvements for KCSR roadway
     track structure have historically been funded with cash flows from
     operations.  Capital requirements for Janus, Berger, KCSI Holding Company
     and other subsidiaries have been funded with cash flows from operations 
     and negotiated term financing.  With the formation of Southern Capital, 
     the Company has the ability to finance railroad equipment through the 
     joint venture.

     

     Capital programs from 1995 to 1997 were primarily financed through
     internally generated cash flows.  These sources were used to finance KCSR
     capital expenditures in 1997 ($68 million), 1996 ($135 million) and 1995
     ($110 million).  The same sources used in funding 1997 capital programs are
     expected to be used in funding 1998 capital programs, currently estimated
     at $66 million.  

     In the last several years, Janus has upgraded its customer service
     capabilities through new equipment and technology enhancements, generally
     funded with existing cash flows and negotiated indebtedness, when
     necessary.  Overall, however, the Company's Financial Asset Management
     businesses require minimal capital for operations.
     

     The Company's consolidated debt ratio (total debt as a percent of total
     debt plus equity) increased by 9.4% from December 31, 1996 to December 31,
     1997.  Total debt increased $271.5 million during 1997,  primarily as a
     result of borrowings to fund the Company's investment in Grupo TFM and
     common stock repurchases, partially offset by repayments on outstanding
     lines of credit.  Stockholders' equity decreased by $17.4 million,
     reflecting the Company's net loss for 1997 and essentially offsetting
     capital stock transactions (e.g., issuances of common stock, common stock
     repurchases, non-cash equity adjustments related to unrealized gains (net
     of tax) on "available-for-sale" securities, etc.).  The combination of
     increased debt and reduced equity resulted in a higher consolidated debt
     ratio in 1997 than 1996.

     The Company's consolidated debt ratio decreased slightly as of 
     December 31, 1996 to 47.4% versus 48.1% at December 31, 1995.  
     Total debt at December 31, 1996 of $645.1 million was $0.9 million 
     higher than 1995.  Significant repurchases of Company common stock 
     ($151 million) using borrowings under the Company's lines of credit 
     were essentially offset by the reduction in debt resulting from the 
     Southern Capital joint venture formation and associated transactions.  
     Equity increased as a result of net income, issuance of common stock 
     from option exercises and other stock plans, and a positive non-cash 
     equity adjustment related to unrealized gains (net of tax) on 
     "available-for-sale" securities held by affiliates, primarily DST.  
     These increases were largely offset by the Company's common stock
     repurchases and dividends.  The decrease in the debt ratio as of December
     31, 1996 compared to 1995 was due to this increase in equity, together 
     with essentially unchanged debt levels. 

     Debt Securities Registration and Offerings.  The U.S. Securities and
     Exchange Commission declared the Company's Registration Statement on Form
     S-3 (File No. 33-69648, originally filed on September 29, 1993) effective
     April 22, 1996, registering $500 million in securities.  However, no
     securities have been issued.  The securities may be offered in the form of
     Common Stock, New Series Preferred Stock $1 par value, Convertible Debt
     Securities, or other Debt Securities (collectively, "the Securities"). 
     Net proceeds from the sale of the Securities would be added to the general
     funds of the Company and used principally for general corporate purposes,
     including working capital, capital expenditures, and acquisitions of or
     investments in businesses and assets.

     

     On December 18, 1995, the Company issued $100 million of 7% Debentures due
     2025.  The Debentures are redeemable at the option of the Company at any
     time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of
     (a) 100% of the principal amount of such Debentures or (b) the sum of the
     present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and
     interest thereon discounted to the date of redemption on a semiannual 
     basis at the Treasury Rate (as defined in the Debentures agreement) plus 
     20 basis points, and in each case accrued interest thereon to the date of
     redemption.  The net proceeds of this transaction were used to repay
     indebtedness on the Company's existing lines of credit and for acquisition
     of KCSI common stock.

     KCSI Credit Agreements.  On May 5, 1995, the Company established a credit
     agreement in the amount of $400 million.  The credit agreement replaced
     approximately $420 million of then existing Company credit agreements 
     which had been in place for varying periods since 1992.  Proceeds of 
     the facility have been and are anticipated to be used for general 
     corporate purposes.  The agreement contains a facility fee ranging from 
     .07-.25% per annum, interest rates below prime and terms ranging from one 
     to five years.  The Company also has various other lines of credit 
     totaling $160 million.  These additional lines, which are available for 
     general corporate purposes, have interest rates below prime and terms of 
     less than one year.  At December 31, 1997, the Company had $313 million 
     outstanding under its various lines of credit.

     As discussed earlier, the Company funded its proportionate amount
     (approximately $297 million) of the initial TFM purchase price payment 
     made by Grupo TFM to the Mexican Government using borrowings under its 
     lines of credit.

     Minority Purchase Agreements.  Agreements between KCSI and certain Janus
     minority owners contain, among other provisions, mandatory stock purchase
     provisions whereby under certain circumstances, KCSI would be required to
     purchase the minority interest of Janus.  The purchase prices of these
     mandatory stock purchase provisions are based upon a multiple of earnings
     and/or fair market value determinations depending upon specific agreement
     terms.   If all of the provisions of the Janus minority owner agreements
     became effective, KCSI would be required to purchase the respective
     minority interests at a cost currently estimated at approximately $337
     million.

     Overall Liquidity.  During the 1995 to 1997 period, the Company continued
     to strengthen its strategic positions in the Transportation and Financial
     Asset Management businesses. Completion of the DST stock offering improved
     the Company's financial position.  Based on DST's stated dividend policy,
     the Company does not anticipate receiving any dividends from DST in the
     foreseeable future.  Additionally, the Southern Capital joint venture
     transactions, which resulted in repayment of the majority of borrowings
     then outstanding under the Company's lines of credit, provided the Company
     with flexibility as to future financing requirements (e.g., the 1997
     investment in Grupo TFM).

     The Company's credit agreements contain, among other provisions, various
     financial covenants.  The Company was in compliance with these various
     provisions, including the financial covenants, as of December 31, 1997. 
     Because of certain financial covenants contained in the credit agreements,
     however, maximum utilization of the Company's available lines of credit 
     may be restricted.

     The Company believes it has adequate resources available - including
     sufficient lines of credit (within the financial covenants referred to
     above), businesses which have historically been positive cash flow
     generators, and the $500 million Shelf Registration Statement - to meet
     anticipated operating, capital and debt service requirements, as well as
     for other potential business opportunities that the Company is currently
     pursuing.  As discussed earlier, there exists a possible capital call ($74
     million) if certain Grupo TFM benchmarks are not met.

     

     As discussed in the "Results of Operations" section above, TMM and the
     Company could be required to purchase the Mexican Government's interest in
     TFM in proportion to each partner's respective ownership interest in Grupo
     TFM (without regard to the Mexican Government's interest in Grupo TFM);
     however, this provision is not exercisable prior to October 31, 2003. 
     Also, the Mexican Government's interest in Grupo TFM may be called by TMM
     and the Company, exercisable at the original amount (in U.S. dollars) paid
     by the Government plus interest based on one-year U.S. Treasury 
     securities.

     As previously discussed in the "Recent Developments" section above, the
     Company announced a planned separation of its Transportation and Financial
     Asset Management businesses.  The Company is pursuing this separation as a
     spin-off of the Financial Asset Management businesses subject to receipt of
     a favorable tax ruling from the IRS.  This transaction may affect the
     liquidity and capital structure of the Company.  The Company is working on
     addressing the liquidity and capital structure issues that may result from
     the completion of the proposed transaction, but has not reached any
     definitive plans.  Nonetheless, any such separation may have a material
     effect on the liquidity and capital of the Company.

     OTHER

     Year 2000 Costs.  Many existing computer programs and microprocessors that
     use only two digits (rather than four) to identify a year could fail or
     create erroneous results if not corrected to reflect "00" as the year
     2000.  This computer program flaw is expected to affect all companies and
     organizations, either directly (through a company's own programs) or
     indirectly (through customers/vendors of the company). The Company is
     currently in the process of implementing Year 2000 plans, and is
     analyzing and remediating the millions of lines of code throughout the
     Company's system.  The Company is also evaluating all enhanced systems-
     from the mainframe to the desktop.  In addition, the Company is reviewing
     the legal, audit, and regulatory concerns surrounding the Year 2000.  
     Comprehensive corporate tracking, coordination and monitoring is
     provided by a central project office.

     These Year 2000 related issues are of particular importance to the 
     Company.  The Company depends upon its computer and other systems and
     the computer and the other systems of third parties to conduct and
     manage the Company's business.  Additionally, the Company's products
     and services are heavily dependent upon using accurate dates in order
     to function properly.  These Year 2000 related issues may also 
     adversely affect the operations and financial performance of one or
     more of the Company's customers or suppliers.  As a result, the failure
     of the Company's computer and other systems, products or services,
     the computer systems and other systems upon which the Company depends, or
     the Company's customers or suppliers to be Year 2000 ready could have a 
     material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations, 
     financial position and cash flows.

     In early 1997, the Company redirected a number of its employees who were
     working on developing new products and services for the Company to
     address the Year 2000 issue.  In addition, the Company contracted with
     third party consultants to assist in the project.  These employees and
     contractors are supervised by a member of the Company's senior 
     management,  and the progress is regularly reported to management and
     the board of directors.

     The Company's Year 2000 project includes identifying, evaluating and
     resolving potential Year 2000 related issues in the Company's computer
     systems, products, services, other systems and third-party systems.
     As part of resolving any potential Year 2000 issues, the Company expects
     to:  identify all computer systems, products, services and other systems
     (including systems provided by third parties) that must be modified;
     evaluate the alternatives available to make any identified systems,
     products or services Year 2000 ready (including modification, replace-
     ment or abandonment); and conduct adequate testing of the systems,
     products and services, including interoperability testing with clients
     and key organizations in the financial

     

     services industry.  The Company is also in the process of identifying
     alternative plans in the event that the Year 2000 project is not
     completed on a timely basis or otherwise does not meet the Company's
     anticipated needs.

     The Company has already begun remediating certain systems and 
     initiated testing and anticipates to have finalized much of the pro-
     cedures relative to the Year 2000 project by the end of the calendar
     year 1998.

     Based on current estimates of potential costs, the Company anticipates
     spending approximately $15 million in connection with ensuring that all
     Company and subsidiary computer programs are compatible with Year 2000
     requirements.  Current accounting principles require all costs associated
     with Year 2000 issues to be expensed as incurred.  A portion of these 
     costs will not result in an increase in expense to the Company because 
     it will be using existing employees and equipment.  While the Company is 
     currently pursuing discussions with its various customers, partners and 
     vendors with respect to their preparedness for Year 2000 issues, no 
     assurance can be made that all such parties will be Year 2000 ready. 
     While the Company cannot fully determine its impact, the inability to 
     complete Year 2000 readiness for its computer systems could result in 
     significant difficulties in processing and completing fundamental 
     transactions.  In such an event, the Company's results of operations, 
     financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
     However, the Company does not anticipate that business operations will 
     be disrupted or that its customers will experience interruption in the 
     service of its Transportation or Financial Asset Management businesses. 
      
     Financial Instruments and Purchase Commitments.  During 1995, the Company
     entered into a forward stock purchase contract as a means of securing a
     potentially favorable price for the repurchase of six million shares of 
     its common stock.  During 1997 and 1996, the Company purchased (post-
     split) 2.4 and 3.6 million shares, respectively, under this contract at an 
     aggregate cost of $39 and $56 million (including transaction premium), 
     respectively.

     In 1995, the Company entered into forward purchase commitments for diesel
     fuel as a means of securing volumes and reducing overall cost.  The
     contracts required the Company to purchase certain quantities of diesel
     fuel at defined prices established at the origination of the contract.  As
     noted earlier, these commitments saved KCSR approximately $3.7 million in
     operating expenses in 1996.  Based on higher fuel prices in 1996, minimal
     commitments were negotiated for 1997.  However, beginning in 1998, KCSR
     initiated a fuel hedging program for approximately two million gallons of
     fuel each month through the end of 1998 for approximately 37% of
     anticipated 1998 fuel usage.  Additionally, KCSR has entered into purchase
     commitments for fuel aggregating approximately 27% of total expected 
     usage.  These transactions are intended to mitigate the impact of rising 
     fuel prices and will be recorded using hedge accounting as set forth in 
     Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements of this Form 10-K.

     In general, the Company enters into transactions such as those discussed
     above in limited situations based on management's assessment of current
     market conditions and perceived risks.  Historically, the Company has
     engaged in very few such transactions and their impact has been
     insignificant.  However, the Company intends to respond to evolving
     business and market conditions in order to manage risks and exposures
     associated with the Company's various operations, and in doing so, may
     enter into transactions similar to those discussed above.

     Foreign Exchange Matters.  In connection with the Company's investment in
     Grupo TFM, a Mexican company, matters arise with respect to financial
     accounting and reporting for foreign currency transactions and for
     translating foreign currency financial statements from Mexican pesos into
     U.S. dollars.  The Company follows the requirements outlined in Statement
     of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52 "Foreign Currency Translation"
     ("SFAS 52"), and related authoritative guidance.

     The purchase price paid by Grupo TFM for 80% of the common stock of TFM 
     was fixed in Mexican pesos; accordingly, Grupo TFM was exposed to  
     fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate.  In

     

     the event that the proceeds from the various financing arrangements did 
     not provide funds sufficient for Grupo TFM to complete the purchase of 
     TFM, the Company may have been required to make additional capital 
     contributions to Grupo TFM.  Accordingly, in order to hedge a portion of 
     the Company's exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Mexican peso 
     versus the U.S. dollar, the Company entered into two separate forward 
     contracts to purchase Mexican pesos - $98 million in February 1997 and 
     $100 million in March 1997.  In April 1997, the Company realized a $3.8
     million pretax gain in connection with these contracts.  This gain was 
     deferred and has been accounted for as a component of the Company's 
     investment in Grupo TFM.  These contracts were intended to hedge only a 
     portion of the Company's exposure related to the final installment of 
     the purchase price and not any other transactions or balances.

     Mexico's economy is currently classified as "highly inflationary" as
     defined in SFAS 52.  Accordingly, the U.S. dollar is assumed to be Grupo
     TFM's functional currency, and any gains or losses from translating Grupo
     TFM's financial statements into U.S. dollars will be included in the
     determination of its net income.  Any equity earnings or losses from Grupo
     TFM included in the Company's results of operations will reflect the
     Company's share of such translation gains and losses. 

     The Company continues to evaluate existing alternatives with respect to
     utilizing foreign currency instruments to hedge its U.S. dollar investment
     in Grupo TFM as market conditions change or exchange rates fluctuate.  At
     December 31, 1997, the Company had no outstanding foreign currency hedging
     instruments.

     New Accounting Pronouncements.  In June 1997, Statement of Financial
     Accounting Standards No. 130 "Reporting Comprehensive Income" ("SFAS
     130") and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131
     "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information"
     ("SFAS 131") were issued.  SFAS 130 establishes standards for reporting
     and disclosure of comprehensive income and its components in the financial
     statements.  SFAS 131 establishes standards for reporting information 
     about operating segments in the financial statements.  The reporting and
     disclosure required by these statements must be included in the Company's
     financial statements beginning in 1998.  The Company is reviewing SFAS 130
     and SFAS 131 and expects to adopt them by the required dates, which are
     December 31, 1998.

     The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128
     "Earnings per Share" ("SFAS 128") in 1997.  The statement specifies the
     computation, presentation and disclosure requirements for earnings per
     share.  The statement requires the computation of earnings per share under
     two methods: "basic" and "diluted."  Basic earnings per share is
     computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the
     weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
     Diluted earnings per share is computed giving effect to all dilutive
     potential common shares that were outstanding during the period (i.e., the
     denominator used in the basic calculation is increased to include the
     number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the
     dilutive potential shares had been issued).  The Company has presented
     basic and diluted per share amounts for income from continuing operations
     and for net income on the face of the income statement and restated all
     prior period earnings per share data pursuant to SFAS 128.

     In Issue No. 96-16, the Emerging Issues Task Force, ("EITF 96-16") of the
     Financial Accounting Standards Board, reached a consensus that substantive
     minority rights which provide the minority shareholder with the right to
     effectively control significant decisions in the ordinary course of an
     investee's business could impact whether the majority shareholder should
     consolidate the investee.  Management is currently evaluating the rights 
     of the minority shareholders of certain consolidated subsidiaries to 
     determine the impact, if any, that application of EITF 96-16  will have 
     on the Company's consolidated financial statements in 1998.

     

     The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121
     "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
     Assets to be Disposed Of" ("SFAS 121") effective January 1, 1996.  The
     statement establishes accounting standards for the impairment of long-lived
     assets, certain identifiable intangibles, and goodwill, as well as for
     long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles which are to be
     disposed.  If events or changes in circumstances of a long-lived asset
     indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, the
     Company must estimate the future cash flows expected to result from the use
     of the asset and its eventual disposition.  If the sum of the expected
     future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest) is lower than the
     carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss must be recognized to the
     extent that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.  The
     adoption of SFAS 121 did not have a material impact on the Company's 1996
     results of operations or financial position.  See, however, "Results of
     Operations" section above with respect to certain KCSR assets held for
     disposal as of December 31, 1997.

     The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
     Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation"
     ("SFAS 123") in October 1995.  This statement allows companies to
     continue under the approach set forth in Accounting Principles Board
     Opinion No. 25 "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25"),
     for recognizing stock-based compensation expense in the financial
     statements, but encourages companies to adopt the fair value method of
     accounting for employee stock options.  The Company has elected to retain
     its current accounting approach under APB 25, and has presented the
     applicable pro forma disclosures pursuant to the requirements of SFAS 123
     in Note 9, Stockholders' Equity, to the consolidated financial statements
     included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  Had compensation cost for the
     Company's stock-based compensation plans been determined in accordance with
     SFAS 123 for options issued after December 31, 1994, the Company's net
     income and earnings per share, on a pro forma basis, would have been
     $(21.1) million and $(0.20) per share, respectively, for 1997, $146.5
     million and $1.26 per share, respectively, for 1996, and $231.8 million 
     and $1.77 per share, respectively, for 1995.

     Litigation.  The Company and its subsidiaries are involved as plaintiff or
     defendant in various legal actions arising in the normal course of
     business.  While the ultimate outcome of the various legal proceedings
     involving the Company and its subsidiaries cannot be predicted with
     certainty, it is the opinion of management (after consultation with legal
     counsel) that the Company's litigation reserves are adequate and that 
     these legal actions currently are not material to the Company's 
     consolidated results of operations or financial position.

     Bogalusa Cases
     In July 1996, the Company was named as one of twenty-seven defendants in
     various lawsuits in Louisiana and Mississippi arising from the explosion of
     a rail car loaded with chemicals in Bogalusa, Louisiana on October 23,
     1995.  As a result of the explosion, nitrogen dioxide and oxides of
     nitrogen were released into the atmosphere over parts of that town and the
     surrounding area causing evacuations and injuries.  Approximately 25,000
     residents of Louisiana and Mississippi have asserted claims to recover
     damages allegedly caused by exposure to the chemicals.

     The Company neither owned nor leased the rail car or the rails on which it
     was located at the time of the explosion in Bogalusa.  The Company did,
     however, move the rail car from Jackson to Vicksburg, Mississippi, where 
     it was loaded with chemicals, and back to Jackson where the car was 
     tendered to the Illinois Central Railroad Company ("IC").  The explosion
     occurred more than 15 days after the Company last transported the rail 
     car.  The car was loaded by the shipper in excess of its standard weight 
     when it was transported by the Company to interchange with the IC.

     The lawsuits arising from the chemical release have been scheduled for
     trial in the fall of 1998.  The Company sought dismissal of these suits in
     the trial courts, which was denied in each case.  Appeals are pending in
     the appellate courts of Louisiana and Mississippi.

     

     The Company believes that its exposure to liability in these cases is
     remote.  If the Company were to be found liable for punitive damages in
     these cases, such a judgment could have a material adverse effect on the
     financial condition of the Company.

     Environmental Matters.  The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are
     subject to extensive regulation under environmental protection laws
     concerning, among other things, discharges to waters and the generation,
     handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other 
     materials where environmental risks are inherent.  In particular, the 
     Company is subject to various laws and certain legislation including, 
     among others, the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA," also known as the  Superfund 
     law), the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Federal Water Pollution 
     Control Act, and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act.  This 
     legislation generally imposes joint and several liability for clean up 
     and enforcement costs, without regard to fault or legality of the original
     conduct, on current and predecessor owners and operators of a site.  The 
     Company does not foresee that compliance with the requirements imposed by 
     the environmental legislation will impair its competitive capability or  
     result in any material additional capital expenditures, operating or 
     maintenance costs.  As part of serving the petroleum and chemicals 
     industry, KCSR transports hazardous materials and has a Shreveport, 
     Louisiana-based hazardous materials emergency team available to handle
     environmental issues which might occur in the transport of such materials.
     Additionally, the Company performs ongoing review and evaluation of the 
     various environmental issues that arise in the Company's operations, 
     and, as necessary, takes actions to limit the Company's exposure to 
     potential liability. 

     In November 1997, representatives of KCSR met with representatives of the
     United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") at the site of two,
     contiguous pieces of property in North Baton Rouge, Louisiana, abandoned
     leaseholds of Western Petrochemicals and Export Drum. These properties had
     been the subjects of voluntary clean up prior to EPA's involvement.  The
     site visit prompted KCSR to obtain from EPA, through the Freedom of
     Information Act, a "preliminary Assessment Report" concerning the
     properties, dated January, 1995, and directing a "Site Investigation". 
     EPA's November 1997, visit to the site was the start of that "Site
     Investigation".  During the November 1997 site visit, EPA indicated it
     intended to recover, through litigation, all of its investigation and
     remediation costs. At KCSR's request, EPA has agreed informally to suspend
     its investigation pending an exchange of information and negotiation of
     KCSR's participation in the "Site Investigation".  Based upon recent oral
     advise subsequently received form the Abandoned Sites Division of the
     Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality ("LADEQ"), KCSR reasonably
     expects that it will be allowed to undertake the investigation and
     remediation of the site, pursuant to the LADEQ's guidelines and oversight.
     EPA's involvement and the investigation and remediation of the sites
     pursuant to LADEQ's oversight and guidelines will increase the  ultimate
     costs to KCSR beyond those anticipated.  However, those additional costs
     are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated
     results of operations or financial position.

     As previously reported, KCSR has been named as a "potentially responsible
     party" by the Louisiana Department of  Environmental Quality in a state
     environmental proceeding, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality,
     Docket No. IAS 88-0001-A, involving a  location near Bossier City,
     Louisiana, which was the site of a wood preservative treatment plant
     (Lincoln Creosoting).  KCSR is a former owner of part of the land in
     question.  This matter was the subject of a trial in the U.S. District
     Court in  Shreveport, Louisiana which was concluded in July 1993.  The 
     court found that Joslyn Manufacturing Company ("Joslyn"), an operator 
     of the plant, was and is required to indemnify KCSR for damages arising 
     out of plant operations. (KCSR's potential liability is as a property 
     owner rather than as a generator or transporter of contaminants.)  The 
     case was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 
     which Court affirmed the U.S. District Court ruling in favor of KCSR.

     

     In early 1994, the EPA added the Lincoln Creosoting site to its CERCLA
     national priority list.  Since major remedial work has been performed at
     this site by Joslyn, and KCSR has been held by the Federal District and
     Appeals Courts to be entitled to indemnity for such  costs, it would 
     appear that KCSR should not incur significant remedial liability.  At  
     this time, it is not possible to evaluate the potential consequences of
     further remediation at the site.

     The Louisiana Department of Transportation ("LDOT") has sued KCSR and a
     number of other defendants in Louisiana state court to recover clean up
     costs incurred by LDOT while constructing Interstate Highway 20 at
     Shreveport, Louisiana (Louisiana Department of Transportation v. The 
     Kansas City Southern Railway Company, et al., Case No. 417190-B in the 
     First  Judicial District Court, Caddo Parish, Louisiana). The clean up was
     associated with an old oil refinery site, operated by the other named
     defendants.  KCSR's main line was adjacent to that site, and KCSR was
     included in the suit because LDOT claims that a 1966 derailment on the
     adjacent track released hazardous substances onto the site. However, there
     is evidence that the derailment occurred on the side of the track opposite
     from the refinery site.  Furthermore, there appears to be no relationship
     between the lading on the derailed train and any contaminants identified at
     the site.  Therefore, management believes that the Company's exposure is
     limited.

     In another proceeding, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality,
     Docket No. IE-0-91-0001, KCSR was named as a party in the alleged
     contamination of Capitol Lake in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  During 1994, the
     list of potentially responsible parties was significantly expanded to
     include the State of Louisiana, and the City and Parish of Baton Rouge,
     among others.  Studies commissioned by KCSR indicate that contaminants
     contained in the lake were not generated by KCSR.  Management and counsel
     do not believe this proceeding will have a material effect on the Company.

     In the Ilada Superfund Site located in East Cape Girardeau, Ill., KCSR was
     cited for furnishing one carload of used oil to this petroleum recycling
     facility.  Counsel advises that KCSR's liability, if any, should fall
     within the "de minimus" provisions of the Superfund law, representing
     minimal exposure. 

     The Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality ("MDEQ") initiated a
     demand on all railroads operating in Mississippi to clean up their
     refueling facilities and investigate any soil and groundwater impacts
     resulting from past refueling activities.  KCSR has six facilities located
     in Mississippi.  KCSR has developed a plan, together with the State of
     Mississippi, that will satisfy the MDEQ's initiative.  Estimated costs to
     complete the studies and expected remediation have been provided for in 
     the Company's consolidated financial statements and the resolution is not
     expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated results 
     of operations or financial position.

     The Company has recorded liabilities with respect to various environmental
     issues, which represent its best estimates of remediation and restoration
     costs that may be required to comply with present laws and regulations.  At
     December 31, 1997, these recorded liabilities were not material.  Although
     these costs cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that
     the ultimate outcome of identified matters will not have a material 
     adverse  effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations or 
     financial condition.

     Regulatory Influence.  In addition to the environmental agencies mentioned
     above, KCSR operations are regulated by the STB, various state regulatory
     agencies, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA").
     Prior to January 1, 1996, the Interstate Commerce Commission ("ICC") had
     jurisdiction over interstate rates charged, routes, service, issuance or
     guarantee of securities, extension or abandonment of rail lines, and
     consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of rail common carriers. 
     As of January 1, 1996, Congress abolished the ICC and transferred
     regulatory responsibility to the STB.  State agencies regulate some 
     aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety and in some 
     instances, intrastate freight rates.  OSHA has jurisdiction over certain 
     health and safety features of railroad operations.

     

     KCSR expects its railroad operations to be subject to future requirements
     regulating exhaust emissions from diesel locomotives that may increase its
     operating costs.  During 1995 the EPA issued proposed regulations
     applicable to locomotive engines.  These regulations, which were issued as
     final in early 1998, will be effective in stages for new or remanufactured
     locomotive engines installed after year 2000. KCSR is reviewing these new
     regulations.  However, management does not expect that compliance with
     these new regulations will have a material impact on the Company's results
     of operations.

     Financial Asset Management businesses are subject to a variety of
     regulatory requirements including, but not limited to, the rules and
     regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and the
     guidelines set forth by the National Association of Securities Dealers.

     The Company does not foresee that compliance with the requirements imposed
     by these agencies' standards under present statutes will impair its
     competitive capability or result in any material effect on results of
     operations.

     Inflation.  Inflation has not had a significant impact on the Company's
     operations in the past three years.  Generally accepted accounting
     principles require the use of historical costs.  Replacement cost and
     related depreciation expense of the Company's property would be
     substantially higher than the historical costs reported.  Any increase in
     expenses from these fixed costs, coupled with variable cost increases due
     to significant inflation, would be difficult to recover through price
     increases given the competitive environments of the Company's principal
     subsidiaries.  See "Foreign Exchange Matters" above with respect to
     inflation in Mexico.   

     Strategic Review.  KCSI, as a holding company, is responsible for the
     management of its primary assets - investments in its subsidiaries. 
     Accordingly, KCSI management continually evaluates how to utilize the
     strength of the Company's business lines and capabilities, provide for
     future growth opportunities, and achieve the Company's financial
     objectives.  This process has resulted in many significant actions,
     including:  the Company's investment and involvement in the Mexican rail
     privatization; the December 1996 Gateway Western acquisition; the October
     1996 Southern Capital joint venture transactions; the current common stock
     repurchase program; a continuing commitment to the mutual fund industry;
     and the October 1995 DST public offering. 

     The Company's recent announcement to separate its Transportation and
     Financial Asset Management segments continues this process.  A separation
     of the two segments through a spin-off of the Financial Asset Management
     businesses would allow management of each segment to focus on achieving
     their full potential as stand-alone entities. 

     1995 through 1997 have been, and future years will be, affected by these
     strategic activities.  KCSI management's analysis and evaluation of the
     Company's strategic alternatives are expected to continue to present growth
     opportunities in future years.

     

     Item 7(a).  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
                 ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Not Applicable

     

     Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     Index to Financial Statements
                                                               Page

     Management Report on Responsibility for Financial Reporting 49

     Financial Statements:

       Report of Independent Accountants......................   49
       Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three
        years ended December 31, 1997.........................   50
       Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1997,
        1996 and 1995.........................................   51
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three
        years ended December 31, 1997.........................   52
       Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders'
        Equity for the three years ended December 31, 1997....   53
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.............   54

     Financial Statement Schedules:

       All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, insignificant
       or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
       statements or notes thereto.

       The consolidated financial statements and related notes, together with
       the Report of Independent Accountants, of DST Systems, Inc. (an
       approximate 41% owned affiliate of the Company accounted for under the
       equity method) for the years ended December 31, 1997, which are included
       in the DST Systems, Inc. Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997
       (Commission File No. 1-14036) and have been incorporated by reference in
       this Form 10-K as Exhibit 99.1.

     

     Management Report on Responsibility for Financial Reporting
        
     The accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes of
     Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries were prepared by
     management in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
     appropriate in the circumstances.  In preparing the financial statements,
     management has made judgments and estimates based on currently available
     information.  Management is responsible for not only the financial
     information, but also all other information in this Annual Report on Form
     10-K.  Representations contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form
     10-K are consistent with the consolidated financial statements and related
     notes thereto.
      
     The Company has a formalized system of internal accounting controls
     designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and
     that its financial records are reliable.  Management monitors the system
     for compliance, and the Company's internal auditors measure its
     effectiveness and recommend possible improvements thereto. In addition, as
     part of their audit of the consolidated financial statements, the 
     Company's independent accountants, who are selected by the stockholders, 
     review and test the internal accounting controls on a selective basis to 
     establish the extent of their reliance thereon in determining the nature, 
     extent and timing of audit tests to be applied.
      
     The Board of Directors pursues its oversight role in the area of financial
     reporting and internal accounting control through its Audit Committee. 
     This committee, composed solely of non-management directors, meets
     regularly with the independent accountants, management and internal
     auditors to monitor the proper discharge of responsibilities relative to
     internal accounting controls and to evaluate the quality of external
     financial reporting.


     Report of Independent Accountants
      
     To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
     Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc.
      
     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the
     related consolidated statements of operations, of changes in stockholders'
     equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the
     financial position of Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc. and its
     subsidiaries at December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, and the results of their
     operations and their cash flows for the years then ended in conformity 
     with generally accepted accounting principles.  These financial state-
     ments are the responsibility of the Company's management; our 
     responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
     based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of these statements in 
     accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which require that
     we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
     whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  
     An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
     amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the 
     accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
     and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We 
     believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion 
     expressed above.
      
     As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
     December 31, 1997 the Company changed its method of evaluating the
     recoverability of goodwill.  We concur with the change in accounting.


     /s/Price Waterhouse
     Kansas City, Missouri
     February 26, 1998

     
                        KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                               Years Ended December 31
                    Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Amounts

     
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.     

     
                         KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
                             CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                   at December 31
                    Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Amounts
  


             See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

  
                        KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                               Years Ended December 31
                                 Dollars in Millions


            See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

     

                        KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                    Dollars in Millions, Except per Share Amounts
        

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

   

                        KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
                     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
      
     Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies
      
     Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc. ("Company" or "KCSI") is a
     diversified holding company, comprising businesses engaged in railroad
     transportation, through The Kansas City Southern Railway Company ("KCSR")
     and Gateway Western Railway Company ("Gateway Western") and Financial
     Asset Management, through Janus Capital Corporation ("Janus") and Berger
     Associates, Inc. ("Berger").  Additionally, the Company has significant
     equity investments.  Note 14 further describes the operations of the
     Company.
      
     The accounting and financial reporting policies of the Company conform 
     with generally accepted accounting principles.  The preparation of 
     financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
     principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that 
     affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of 
     contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, 
     and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting 
     period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates. 

     Use of the term "Company" as described in these Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements means Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc. as a
     holding company and all of its consolidated subsidiary companies. 
     Significant accounting and reporting policies are described below.

     Effective January 1, 1997, the Company realigned its business segments to
     better define the core industries in which it operates.  The various
     components comprising the segment formerly known as Corporate & Other have
     been assigned to either the Transportation or Financial Asset Management
     segment.
      
     * Transportation includes:  KCSR; Gateway Western; Transportation-related
       Holding Company amounts (Kansas City Southern Lines, Inc. - "KCSL");
       and Transportation-related subsidiaries and equity investments,
       including Grupo Transportacion Ferroviaria Mexicana, S.A. de C.V.
       ("Grupo TFM," formerly  Transportacion Ferroviaria Mexicana, S. de R.L.
       de C.V.), Southern Capital Corporation, LLC ("Southern Capital"), and
       Mexrail, Inc. ("Mexrail").
      
     * Financial Asset Management includes: Janus; Berger; the Company's
       approximate 41% interest in DST Systems, Inc. ("DST"); and Financial
       Asset Management-related KCSI Holding Company amounts. 

     Prior year information has been realigned to reflect the new segment
     approach.

     During third quarter 1997, the Company formed KCSL as a holding company 
     for KCSR and all other transportation-related subsidiaries and 
     affiliates.  KCSL was organized to provide separate control, management 
     and accountability for all transportation operations and businesses.
      
     As a result of the public offering of DST, formerly a wholly-owned and
     consolidated subsidiary of the Company, and associated transactions
     completed in November 1995, the Company reduced its ownership in DST to
     approximately 41% (see Note 2). Accordingly, the Company accounted for its
     investment in DST under the equity method for the year ended December 31,
     1995 retroactive to January 1, 1995.

     Principles of Consolidation.  The consolidated financial statements
     generally include all majority owned subsidiaries.  All significant
     intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 

     
                                      
     The equity method of accounting is used for all entities in which the
     Company or its subsidiaries have significant influence, but not more than
     50% voting control interest; the cost method of accounting is generally
     used for investments of less than 20% voting control interest. In December
     1996 and the first four months of 1997, Gateway Western was accounted for
     under the equity method as a majority-owned unconsolidated subsidiary 
     while the Company awaited approval from the Surface Transportation Board
     ("STB") for the acquisition of Gateway Western.  The STB approved the
     Company's acquisition of Gateway Western effective May 5, 1997. 
     Subsequently, Gateway Western was included as a consolidated subsidiary of
     the Company effective January 1, 1997.  See Note 2 for additional
     information on the Gateway Western acquisition.
      
     Cash Equivalents.  Short-term liquid investments with an initial maturity
     of generally three months or less are considered cash equivalents. 
     Carrying value approximates market value due to the short-term nature of
     these investments.

     Inventories.  Materials and supplies inventories for transportation
     operations are valued at average cost.
      
     Properties and Depreciation.  Properties are stated at cost. Additions and
     renewals constituting a unit of property are capitalized and all 
     properties are depreciated over the estimated remaining life of such 
     assets.  Ordinary maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as 
     incurred.
      
     The cost of transportation equipment and road property normally retired,
     less salvage value, is charged to accumulated depreciation.  Conversely,
     the cost of industrial and other property retired, and the cost of
     transportation property abnormally retired, together with accumulated
     depreciation thereon, are eliminated from the property accounts and the
     related gains or losses are reflected in earnings.
      
     Depreciation for transportation operations is computed using composite
     straight-line rates for financial statement purposes. The STB approves the
     depreciation rates used by KCSR.  KCSR evaluates depreciation rates for
     properties and equipment and implements approved rates. Periodic revisions
     of rates have not had a material effect on operating results.  Unit
     depreciation methods, employing both accelerated and straight-line rates,
     are employed in other business segments.  Accelerated depreciation is used
     for income tax purposes.  The ranges of annual depreciation rates for
     financial statement purposes are:
     

     The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121
     "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
     Assets to be Disposed Of" ("SFAS 121") effective January 1, 1996.  The
     new statement establishes accounting standards for the impairment of long-
     lived assets, certain identifiable intangibles, and goodwill, as well as
     for long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles which are to be
     disposed.  If events or changes in circumstances of a long-lived asset
     indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, the
     Company must estimate the future cash flows expected to result from the 
     use of the asset and its eventual disposition.  If the sum of the expected
     future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest) is lower than the
     carrying amount of the asset, an impairment loss must be recognized to the
     extent that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.  The
     adoption of SFAS 121 did not have a material effect on the Company's
     financial position or results of operations.  However, see Note 3 below
     with respect to certain KCSR assets held for disposal at 
     December 31, 1997.

     

     Revenue Recognition.  Revenue is recognized by the Company's consolidated
     railroad operations based upon the percentage of completion of a commodity
     movement.  Revenue is recognized by Janus and Berger primarily as a
     percentage of the assets under management. Other subsidiaries, in general,
     recognize revenue when the product is shipped or as services are 
     performed.

     Advertising.  The Company expenses all advertising as incurred.  Direct
     response advertising for which future economic benefits are probable and
     specifically attributable to the advertising is not material.
      
     Intangibles. Intangibles principally represent the excess of cost over the
     fair value of net underlying assets of acquired companies using purchase
     accounting and are amortized using the straight-line method over periods
     ranging from 5 to 40 years.  

     On an annual basis, the Company reviews the recoverability of goodwill. In
     response to changes in the competitive and business environment in the 
     rail industry, the Company revised its methodology for evaluating goodwill
     recoverability effective December 31, 1997.  The change in this method of
     measurement relates to the level at which assets are grouped from the
     business unit level to the investment component level.  At the same time,
     there were changes in the estimates of future cash flows used to measure
     goodwill recoverability.  The effect of the change in method of applying
     the accounting principle is inseparable from the changes in estimate. 
     Accordingly, the combined effects have been reported in the accompanying
     consolidated financial statements as a change in estimate.  The Company
     believes that the new methodology represents a preferable method of
     accounting because it more closely links the fair value estimates to the
     asset whose recoverability is being evaluated.  The policy change did not
     impact the Company's Financial Asset Management businesses as their
     goodwill has always been evaluated on an investment component basis.

     As a result of the changes discussed above, the Company determined that 
     the aggregate carrying value of the goodwill and other intangible assets
     associated with the 1993 MidSouth purchase exceeded their fair value. 
     Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $91.3 million in
     the fourth quarter of 1997.  Due to the fact that the change in accounting
     is inseparable from the changes in estimates, the pro forma effects of
     retroactive application cannot be determined.

     Derivative Financial Instruments.  In 1996, the Company entered into
     foreign currency contracts in order to reduce the impact of fluctuations in
     the value of the Mexican peso on its investment in Grupo TFM.  The Company
     follows the requirements outlined in Statement of Financial Accounting
     Standards No. 52 "Foreign Currency Translation" ("SFAS 52"), and related
     authoritative guidance.  Accordingly, gains and losses related to hedges of
     the Company's investment in Grupo TFM were deferred and recognized as
     adjustments to the carrying amount of the investment when the hedged
     transaction occurred.

     Any gains and losses qualifying as hedges of existing assets or 
     liabilities are included in the carrying amounts of those assets or 
     liabilities and are ultimately recognized in income as part of those 
     carrying amounts.  Any gains or losses on derivative contracts that do 
     not qualify as hedges are recognized currently as other income.

     See Note 12 for additional information with respect to derivative 
     financial instruments and purchase commitments.  

     Income Taxes.  Deferred income tax effects of transactions reported in
     different periods for financial reporting and income tax return purposes
     are recorded under the liability method of accounting for income taxes. 
     This method gives consideration to the future tax consequences of the
     deferred income tax items and immediately recognizes changes in income tax
     laws upon enactment.  The income statement effect is generally derived 
     from changes in deferred income taxes on the balance sheet.

     

     Treasury Stock.  The excess of par over cost of the Preferred shares held
     in Treasury is credited to capital surplus. Common shares held in Treasury
     are accounted for as if they were retired and the excess of cost over par
     value of such shares is charged to capital surplus, if available, and then
     to retained earnings.
      
     Stock Plans.  Proceeds received from the exercise of stock options or
     subscriptions are credited to the appropriate capital accounts in the year
     they are exercised.

     The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
     Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation"
     ("SFAS 123") in October 1995.  This statement allows companies to
     continue under the approach set forth in Accounting Principles Board
     Opinion No. 25 "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25"),
     for recognizing stock-based compensation expense in the financial
     statements, but encourages companies to adopt the fair value method of
     accounting for employee stock options.  The Company has elected to retain
     its accounting approach under APB 25, and has presented the applicable pro
     forma disclosures in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements
     pursuant to the requirements of SFAS 123.

     Indebtedness with respect to the leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan
     ("ESOP") was retired in full during 1995.  All shares held in the ESOP
     are treated as outstanding for purposes of computing the Company's 
     earnings per share.
      
     Earnings Per Share.  The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
     Standards No. 128 "Earnings per Share" ("SFAS 128") in 1997.  The
     statement specifies the computation, presentation and disclosure
     requirements for earnings per share.  The statement requires the
     computation of earnings per share under two methods: "basic" and
     "diluted."  Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income
     available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common
     shares outstanding during the period.  Diluted earnings per share is
     computed giving effect to all dilutive potential common shares that were
     outstanding during the period (i.e., the denominator used in the basic
     calculation is increased to include the number of additional common shares
     that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential shares had been
     issued).  SFAS 128 requires the Company to present basic and diluted per
     share amounts for income (loss) from continuing operations and for net
     income (loss) on the face of the statements of operations. All prior 
     period earnings per share data have been restated.

     Stock options to employees represent the only difference between the
     weighted average shares used for the basic computation compared to the
     diluted computation.  Because of the net loss in 1997, all options were
     anti-dilutive for the year ended December 31, 1997.  The weighted average
     of options to purchase 3,502,290 and 1,604,925 shares of the Company's
     common stock were outstanding during 1996 and 1995 but were not included 
     in the respective years' computation of diluted earnings per share because
     the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the 
     common shares.
      


     The Company's Series B Preferred stock, issued in 1993, has a $200 per
     share liquidation preference and is convertible to common stock at a ratio
     of twelve to one (see Note 9).

     

     On July 29, 1997, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a 3-for-1
     split in the Company's common stock effected in the form of a stock
     dividend.  All share and per share data has been restated to reflect this
     split.   
     

     Retained earnings include equity in unremitted earnings of unconsolidated
     affiliates of $111.9, $99.2 and $34.7 million at December 31, 1997, 1996
     and 1995, respectively.
      
     New Accounting Pronouncements.  In June 1997, Statement of Financial
     Accounting Standards No. 130 "Reporting Comprehensive Income" ("SFAS
     130") and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131
     "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information"
     ("SFAS 131") were issued.  SFAS 130 establishes standards for reporting
     and disclosure of comprehensive income and its components in the financial
     statements.  SFAS 131 establishes standards for reporting information 
     about operating segments in the financial statements.  The reporting and
     disclosure required by these statements must be included in the Company's
     financial statements beginning in 1998.  The Company is reviewing SFAS 130
     and SFAS 131 and expects to adopt them by the required dates, which are
     December 31, 1998.

     In Issue No. 96-16, the Emerging Issues Task Force, ("EITF 96-16") of the
     Financial Accounting Standards Board, reached a consensus that substantive
     minority rights which provide the minority shareholder with the right to
     effectively control significant decisions in the ordinary course of an
     investee's business could impact whether the majority shareholder should
     consolidate the investee.  Management is currently evaluating the rights of
     the minority shareholders of certain consolidated subsidiaries to 
     determine the impact, if any, that application of EITF 96-16 will have
     on the Company's consolidated financial statements in 1998.


     Note 2. Acquisitions and Dispositions
      
     Grupo Transportacion Ferroviaria Mexicana, S.A. de C.V.  In June 1996, the
     Company and Transportacion Maritima Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. ("TMM") formed
     Grupo Transportacion Ferroviaria Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. ("Grupo TFM,"
     formerly  Transportacion Ferroviaria Mexicana, S. de R.L. de C.V.).  Grupo
     TFM was formed to participate in the privatization of the Mexican rail
     industry.

     On December 6, 1996, Grupo TFM, TMM and the Company announced that the
     Mexican Government had awarded to Grupo TFM the right to purchase 80% of
     the common stock of TFM, S.A. de C.V. ("TFM," formerly Ferrocarril del
     Noreste, S.A. de C.V.) for approximately 11.072 billion Mexican pesos
     (approximately $1.4 billion U.S. based on the U.S. dollar/Mexican peso
     exchange rate on the award date). TFM holds the concession to operate
     Mexico's "Northeast Rail Lines" for 50 years, with the option of a 50
     year extension (subject to certain conditions). 

     The Northeast Rail Lines are a strategically important rail link to Mexico
     and the North American Free Trade Agreement ("NAFTA") corridor.  The
     lines are estimated to transport approximately 40% of Mexico's rail cargo
     and are located next to primary north/south truck routes.  The Northeast
     Rail Lines directly link Mexico City and Monterrey, as well as Guadalajara
     (through trackage rights), with the ports of

     

     Lazaro Cardenas, Veracruz, Tampico, and the cities of Matamoros and Nuevo
     Laredo.  Nuevo Laredo is a primary transportation gateway between Mexico
     and the United States.  The Northeast Rail Lines connect in Laredo, Texas
     to the Union Pacific Railroad and the Texas Mexican Railway Company ("Tex-
     Mex").  The Tex-Mex is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mexrail, a 49% owned
     equity investment of the Company.  The Tex-Mex links to KCSR at Beaumont,
     Texas through trackage rights.  With the KCSR and Tex-Mex interchange at
     Beaumont, and through KCSR's connections with major rail carriers at
     various other points, KCSR has developed a NAFTA rail system which is
     expected to facilitate the economic integration of the North American
     marketplace. 

     On January 31, 1997, Grupo TFM paid the first installment of the purchase
     price (approximately $565 million U.S. based on the U.S. dollar/Mexican
     peso exchange rate) to the Government, representing approximately 40% of
     the purchase price. This initial installment of the TFM purchase price was
     funded by Grupo TFM through capital contributions from TMM and the 
     Company.  The Company contributed approximately $297 million to Grupo TFM,
     of which approximately $277 million was used by Grupo TFM as part of the 
     initial installment payment.  The Company financed this contribution using
     borrowings under existing lines of credit.

     On June 23, 1997, Grupo TFM completed the purchase of 80% of TFM through
     the payment of the remaining $835 million U.S. to the Government.  This
     payment was funded by Grupo TFM using a significant portion of the funds
     obtained from: (i) senior secured term credit facilities ($325 million
     U.S.); (ii) senior notes and senior discount debentures ($400 million
     U.S.);(iii) proceeds from the sale of 24.5% of Grupo TFM to the Government
     (approximately $199 million U.S. based on the U.S. dollar/Mexican peso
     exchange rate on June 23, 1997); and (iv) additional capital contributions
     from TMM and the Company (approximately $1.4 million from each partner). 
     Additionally, Grupo TFM entered into a $150 million revolving credit
     facility for general working capital purposes.  The Government's interest
     in Grupo TFM is in the form of limited voting right shares, and the
     purchase agreement includes a call option for TMM and the Company, which 
     is exercisable at the original amount (in U.S. dollars) paid by the 
     Government plus interest based on one-year U.S. Treasury securities.

     In February and March 1997, the Company entered into two separate forward
     contracts - $98 million in February 1997 and $100 million in March 1997 -
     to purchase Mexican pesos in order to hedge against a portion of the
     Company's exposure to fluctuations in the value of the Mexican peso versus
     the U.S. dollar. In April 1997, the Company realized a $3.8 million pretax
     gain in connection with these contracts.  This gain was deferred, and has
     been accounted for as a component of the Company's investment in Grupo 
     TFM. These contracts were intended to hedge only a portion of the 
     Company's exposure related to the final installment of the purchase price 
     and not any other transactions or balances.

     Concurrent with the financing transactions, Grupo TFM, TMM and the Company
     entered into a Capital Contribution Agreement ("Contribution Agreement")
     with TFM, which includes a possible capital call of $150 million from TMM
     and the Company if certain performance benchmarks, outlined in the
     agreement, are not met. The Company would be responsible for approximately
     $74 million of the capital call. The term of the Contribution Agreement is
     three years.  In a related agreement between Grupo TFM, TFM and the
     Government, among others, the Government has agreed to contribute up to
     $37.5 million of equity capital to Grupo TFM if TMM and the Company are
     required to contribute under the capital call provisions of the
     Contribution Agreement prior to July 16, 1998. In the event the Government
     has not made any contributions by such date, the Government has committed
     up to July 31, 1999 to make additional capital contributions to Grupo TFM
     (of up to an aggregate amount of $37.5 million) on a proportionate basis
     with TMM and the Company if capital contributions are required.  Any
     capital contributions to Grupo TFM from the Government would be used to
     reduce the contribution amounts required to be paid by TMM and the Company
     pursuant to the Contribution Agreement.   As of December 31, 1997, no
     additional contributions from the Company have been requested or made.

     

     At December 31, 1997, the Company's investment in Grupo TFM was
     approximately $288 million.  With the sale of 24.5% of Grupo TFM to the
     Government, the Company's interest in Grupo TFM declined from 49% to
     approximately 37% (with TMM and a TMM affiliate owning the remaining
     38.5%).  The Company accounts for its investment in Grupo TFM under the
     equity method.

     Gateway Western Acquisition.  In May 1997, the  Surface Transportation
     Board ("STB") approved the Company's acquisition of Gateway 
     Western, a regional rail carrier with operations from Kansas City, 
     Missouri to East St. Louis and Springfield, Illinois and haulage 
     rights between Springfield and Chicago, from the Southern Pacific 
     Rail Corporation.  Prior to the STB approval from acquisition in 
     December 1996, the Company's investment in Gateway Western was 
     treated as a majority-owned unconsolidated subsidiary accounted for
     under the equity method.  Upon approval from the STB, the assets,
     liabilities, revenues and expenses were included in the Company's
     consolidated financial statements.  The consideration paid for Gateway
     Western (including various acquisition costs and liabilities) was
     approximately $12.2 million, which exceeded the fair value of the
     underlying net assets by approximately $12.1 million.  The resulting
     intangible is being amortized over a period of 40 years.

     Under a prior agreement with The Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway
     Company, Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation has the option of
     purchasing the assets of Gateway Western (based on a fixed formula in the
     agreement) through the year 2004.

     Assuming the transaction had been completed January 1, 1996, inclusion of
     Gateway Western results on a pro forma basis, as of and for the year ended
     December 31, 1996, would not have been material to the Company's
     consolidated results of operations.

     Berger Ownership Interest.  As a result of certain transactions during
     1997, the Company increased its ownership in Berger to 100%.  In January
     and December 1997, Berger purchased, for treasury, the common stock of
     minority shareholders.  Also in December 1997, the Company acquired
     additional Berger shares from a minority shareholder through the issuance
     of 330,000 shares of KCSI common stock.  These transactions resulted in
     approximately $17.8 million of intangibles, which will be amortized over
     their estimated economic life of 15 years.  However, see discussion of
     impairment of certain of these intangibles in Note 3.

     Pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Agreement") in connection
     with the acquisition of a controlling interest in Berger in 1994,
     additional purchase price payments - totaling approximately $62.4 million 
     (of which $39.7 million remains unpaid) - may be required of the Company
     upon Berger attaining certain levels (up to $10 billion) of assets under
     management, as defined in the Agreement, over a five year period. In 1997,
     1996 and 1995, contingent payments were made totaling $3.1, $23.9 and $3.1
     million, respectively, resulting in adjustment to the purchase price
     recorded, and therefore, an increase in intangibles.  The intangible
     amounts are being amortized over their estimated economic life of 15 
     years.

     Southern Capital Corporation, LLC Joint Venture.  In October 1996, the
     Company and GATX Capital Corporation ("GATX") completed the transactions
     for the formation and financing of a joint venture to perform certain
     leasing and financing activities.  The venture, Southern Capital
     Corporation, LLC ("Southern Capital"), was formed through a GATX
     contribution of $25 million in cash, and a Company contribution (through
     its subsidiaries KCSR and Carland, Inc.) of $25 million in net assets,
     comprising a negotiated fair value of locomotives and rolling stock and
     long-term indebtedness owed to KCSI and its subsidiaries. In an associated
     transaction, Southern Leasing Corporation (an indirect wholly-owned
     subsidiary of the Company prior to dissolution in October 1996), sold to
     Southern Capital approximately $75 million of loan portfolio assets and
     rail equipment at fair value which approximated historical cost. 

     As a result of these transactions and subsequent repayment by Southern
     Capital of indebtedness owed to KCSI and its subsidiaries, the Company
     received cash which exceeded the net book value of its assets by

     

     approximately $44.1 million.  Concurrent with the formation of the joint
     venture, KCSR entered into operating leases with Southern Capital for the
     majority of the rail equipment acquired by or contributed to Southern
     Capital.  Accordingly, this excess fair value over book value is being
     recognized over the terms of the leases (approximately $4.9 million in
     1997).

     The cash received by the Company was used to reduce outstanding
     indebtedness by approximately $217 million, after consideration of
     applicable income taxes, through repayments on various lines of credit and
     subsidiary indebtedness.  The Company reports its 50% ownership interest 
     in Southern Capital under the equity method of accounting.  See Notes 4
     and 5 for additional information.

     DST Public Offering.  On October 31, 1995, DST and the Company effected an
     initial public offering for a total of 22 million shares of DST common
     stock.  The initial offering price was $21 per share.  Of the 22 million
     shares, 19,450,000 and 2,550,000 were offered by DST and the Company,
     respectively.  On November 6, 1995, an over-allotment option, granted by
     the Company to the underwriters, for an additional 3,300,000 DST shares
     owned by the Company was exercised, effectively completing the DST
     offering.   The approximate $384.0 million net proceeds received by DST
     were used to reduce outstanding indebtedness to the Company, borrowings on
     bank credit lines, and for working capital.  The approximate $276 million
     in proceeds received by the Company from sale of DST stock and repayment of
     indebtedness by DST were used for repayment of debt, repurchase of Company
     common stock and general corporate purposes.  In conjunction with the
     offering, the Company completed an exchange of 4,253,508 shares of DST
     common stock for 5,460,000 shares of Company common stock held by the DST
     portion of the ESOP.  The 5,460,000 shares received in the exchange have
     been accounted for as treasury shares by the Company.  With the completion
     of all associated transactions, the Company's ownership in DST was reduced
     to approximately 41%, and a pretax gain of approximately $296.3 million 
     was recognized during fourth quarter 1995.  The Company recorded approxi-
     mately $78.6 million in income taxes currently payable and $73.1 million 
     in deferred income taxes in connection with the public offering and 
     associated transactions, resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately
     $144.6 million.

     Upon completion of the public offering, DST was no longer included in the
     Company's consolidation, and was accounted for as an equity investment (in
     accordance with the Company's accounting policy described more fully in
     Note 1) in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended
     December 31, 1995 as if it was an unconsolidated subsidiary as of January
     1, 1995.

     Mexrail Investment.  In November 1995, the Company purchased 49% of the
     common stock of Mexrail from TMM.  Mexrail owns 100% of the Tex-Mex, as
     well as certain other assets.  The Tex-Mex operates a 157 mile rail line
     extending from Corpus Christi to Laredo, Texas, with trackage rights to
     Beaumont, Texas.  The purchase price of $23 million was financed through
     the Company's existing lines of credit.  The investment is accounted for
     under the equity method.  The transaction resulted in the recording of
     intangibles (approximately $9.8 million) as the purchase price exceeded 
     the fair value of underlying net assets.  The intangible amounts are being
     amortized over a period of 40 years.  Assuming the transaction had been
     completed January 1, 1995, inclusion of Mexrail results on a pro forma
     basis, as of and for the year ended December 31, 1995, would not have been
     material to the Company's consolidated results of operations.  

     DST Transactions.  On August 1, 1996, The Continuum Company, Inc.
     ("Continuum"), formerly an approximate 23% owned DST equity affiliate,
     merged with Computer Sciences Corporation ("CSC," a publicly traded
     company) in a tax-free share exchange.  In exchange for its ownership
     interest in Continuum, DST received approximately 4.3 million shares
     (representing an approximate 6% interest) of CSC common stock.

     As a result of the transaction, the Company's earnings for the year ended
     December 31, 1996 include approximately $47.7 million (after-tax), or 
     $0.41 per diluted share, representing the Company's proportionate share of
     the one-time gain recognized by DST in connection with the merger.  
     Continuum

     

     ceased to be an equity affiliate of DST, thereby eliminating any future
     Continuum equity affiliate earnings or losses.  DST recognized equity
     losses in Continuum of $4.9 million for the first six months of 1996 and
     $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1995.

     On January 31, 1995, DST completed the sale of its 50% interest in
     Investors Fiduciary Trust Company Holdings, Inc. ("IFTC"), which
     wholly-owns Investors Fiduciary Trust Company, to State Street 
     Corporation ("State Street").  At closing, DST received 2,986,111 shares 
     of State Street common stock in a tax-free exchange (representing an 
     approximate 4% ownership interest in State Street).  As a result of this 
     transaction, equity earnings from DST in 1995 include a net gain of $4.7 
     million, after consideration of appropriate tax effects.  With the closing
     of the transaction, IFTC ceased to be an unconsolidated affiliate of DST 
     and no further equity in earnings of IFTC have been recorded by DST.


     Note 3.  Restructuring, Asset Impairment and Other Charges

     As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in re-
     sponse to changes in the competitive and business environment in the rail
     industry, the Company revised its methodology for evaluating goodwill
     recoverability effective December 31, 1997.  As a result of this revised
     methodology (as well as certain changes in estimate), the Company
     determined that the aggregate carrying value of the goodwill and other in-
     tangible assets associated with the 1993 MidSouth purchase exceeded their
     fair value (measured by reference to the net present value of future cash
     flows). Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $91.3
     million.

     In connection with the review of its intangible assets, the Company
     determined that the carrying value of the goodwill associated with Berger
     exceeded its fair value (measured by reference to various valuation
     techniques commonly used in the investment management industry) as a 
     result of below-peer performance and growth of the core Berger funds. 
     Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $12.7 million.

     During the fourth quarter of 1997, Transportation management committed to
     dispose, as soon as  practicable, certain under-performing branch lines
     acquired in connection with the 1993 MidSouth purchase, as well as certain
     of the Company's non-operating real estate.  Accordingly, in accordance
     with SFAS 121, the Company recognized losses aggregating $38.5 million
     which represents the excess of carrying value over fair value less cost to
     sell.  Results of operations related to these assets included in the
     accompanying consolidated financial statements cannot be separately
     identified.

     In accordance with SFAS 121, the Company periodically evaluates the
     recoverability of its operating properties.  As a result of continuing
     operating losses and a further decline in the customer base of the
     Transportation segment's bulk coke handling facility (Pabtex) the Company
     determined that the long-lived assets related thereto may not be fully
     recoverable.  Accordingly, the Company recognized an impairment loss of
     $9.2 million representing the excess of carrying value over fair value.

     Additionally, the Company recorded expenses aggregating $44.7 million
     related to restructuring and other costs.  This amount includes
     approximately $27.1 related to the termination of a union productivity 
     fund (which required KCSR to pay certain employees when reduced crew 
     levels were used) and employee separations, as well as, $17.6 million 
     of other costs related to reserves for leases, contracts, impaired invest-
     ments and other reorganization costs.

     

     Note 4. Supplemental Cash Flow Disclosures
      
     Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information.
     

     Supplemental Schedule of Noncash Investing and Financing Activities.  As
     discussed in Note 2, the Company purchased a portion of the Berger 
     minority interest.  The Company issued 330,000 shares of its common 
     stock, valued at $10.1 million, in exchange for the increased investment 
     in Berger.

     In connection with the Southern Capital joint venture formation, the
     Company (through its subsidiaries KCSR, Carland, Inc. and Southern Leasing
     Corporation) contributed/sold to Southern Capital rail equipment, current
     and non-current loan portfolio assets, and long-term indebtedness owed to
     KCSI and its subsidiaries (see Note 2).  Southern Capital repaid the
     indebtedness owed KCSI and its subsidiaries with borrowings under Southern
     Capital's credit facility.  Cash received by KCSI from Southern Capital of
     approximately $224 million is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of
     Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 1996 as proceeds from disposal
     of property ($184 million) and proceeds from disposal of other investments
     ($40 million).  The Company accrued for expected income taxes on the
     transaction and, as described in Note 2, deferred the excess cash received
     over the book value of the assets contributed and sold.

     The Company accrued a liability for the donation of 300,000 shares of DST
     common stock to a charitable trust in December 1995.  These shares were
     delivered to the charitable trust in January 1996, resulting in a 
     reduction in the Company's investment in DST and associated liabilities.

     Company subsidiaries and affiliates hold various investments which are
     accounted for as "available for sale" securities as defined in Statement
     of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115 "Accounting for Certain
     Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" ("SFAS 115").  The Company
     records its proportionate share of any unrealized gains or losses related
     to these investments, net of deferred taxes, in stockholders' equity. 
     Stockholders' equity increased $25.9, $18.5 and $8.2 million in 1997, 1996
     and 1995, respectively, as a result of unrealized gains related to these
     investments.

     During 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company issued 245,550, 305,400 and 
     161,850 shares of KCSI Common stock, respectively, under various offerings
     of the Employee Stock purchase Plan ("ESOP").  These shares, totaling a 
     purchase price of $3.1, $3.8 and $2.1 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
     respectively, were subscribed and paid for through employee payroll deduc-
     tions in years preceding the issuance of stock.

     In connection with the DST public offering in fourth quarter 1995, the
     Company exchanged DST shares for 5,460,000 shares of KCSI common stock
     owned by the ESOP with a value of approximately $84.8 million. No cash was
     exchanged in connection with this transaction.

     At December 31, 1995, the Company had repurchased $11.9 million of its
     common stock for which cash had not been exchanged prior to year end.  The
     Company recorded a liability for these repurchases, with an offsetting
     reduction of stockholders' equity.

     As described in greater detail in Note 7, the Company issued $100 million
     in Debentures in 1995.  As part of this transaction, the Company incurred
     $2.2 million in discount and underwriting fees which were transferred
     directly to the underwriter.  The discount and underwriting fees represent
     non-cash amounts, which are being amortized over the term of the
     Debentures.

     

     Note 5. Investments
     
  (a)  As a result of the DST public offering and associated transactions
       completed in November 1995 (discussed in Note 2), the Company's
       investment in DST was reduced to approximately 41%.  Fair market value
       at December 31, 1997 (based on the New York Stock Exchange closing
       market price) was approximately $865.0 million

  (b)  During 1996, purchase price allocations were completed, and resulted
       in reclassification of $9.1 million from investments to intangibles,
       representing excess purchase price over fair value of underlying net
       assets

  (c)  In June 1997, the Mexican Government purchased approximately 24.5% of
       Grupo TFM, reducing the Company's ownership in Grupo TFM from 49% to
       approximately 37% (see Note 2)

  (d)  Midland, comprising Midland Data Systems, Inc. and Midland Loan
       Services, L.P., both formerly 45% owned KCSI affiliates, was sold in
       April 1996

  (e)  Fair market value is not readily determinable for investments other
       than noted above, and in the opinion of management, market value
       approximates carrying value

     Additionally, DST holds investments in the common stock of State Street 
     and CSC, among others, which are accounted for as "available for sale"
     securities as defined by SFAS 115.  The Company records its proportionate
     share of any unrealized DST gains or losses related to these investments,
     net of deferred taxes, in stockholders' equity.

     Transactions With and Between Unconsolidated Affiliates.  The Company and
     its subsidiary, KCSR, paid certain expenses on behalf of Grupo TFM during
     1997.  In addition, the Company has a management services agreement with
     Grupo TFM to provide certain consulting and management services. The total
     amount, $2.6 million, is reflected as an accounts receivable in the
     Company's consolidated balance sheet.
 
     In connection with the October 1996 formation of the Southern Capital 
     joint venture, KCSR entered into operating leases with Southern Capital 
     for locomotives and rolling stock at rental rates management believes re-
     flect market.  KCSR paid Southern Capital $23.5 and 4.5 million under 
     these operating leases in 1997 and 1996, respectively.  Additionally, 
     Southern Group, Inc. ("SGI"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of KCSR, entered 
     into a contract with Southern Capital to manage the loan portfolio assets 
     held by Southern Capital, as well as to perform general administrative and
     accounting functions for the venture.  Payments under this contract were
     approximately $1.7 million in 1997 and $.3 million in 1996. 

     Throughout 1996, the Company repurchased KCSI common stock owned by DST's
     portion of the ESOP.  In total, 1,605,000 shares were repurchased for
     approximately $24.2 million.

     

     Together, Janus and Berger recognized approximately $5.3, $5.4 and $4.5
     million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, in expenses associated with
     various services provided by DST and its subsidiaries and affiliates.

     Janus recorded $7.1, $5.9 and $4.8 million in revenues for the years ended
     December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, representing management
     fees earned from IDEX.

     DST had loans outstanding to the Company throughout the first ten months 
     of 1995, which were repaid in connection with the public offering.  The
     Company recognized approximately $8.8 million in interest income related 
     to this indebtedness during 1995.  Additionally, DST paid a special 
     dividend of $150 million to the Company in May 1995.

     

     




     (i)Significant increase in 1996 over 1995 is attributable to the one-time
        gain recorded by DST as a result of the merger of its Continuum
        investment in third quarter 1996 (see Note 2)

      

     Generally, the difference between the carrying amount of the Company's
     investment in unconsolidated affiliates and the underlying equity in net
     assets is attributable to certain equity investments whose carrying 
     amounts have been reduced to zero, and report a net deficit.  In 
     addition, with respect to the Company's investment in Grupo TFM, the 
     effects of foreign currency transactions and capitalized interest prior 
     to June 23, 1997, which are not recorded on the investees books, also 
     result in these differences.  However, in 1995, the larger difference 
     between the carrying amount and the underlying equity in net assets of 
     unconsolidated affiliates was a result of initial purchase price 
     allocations related to the Mexrail acquisition.  Upon completion of the 
     purchase price allocation in 1996, $9.1 million was reclassified from 
     investments to intangibles, representing excess purchase price over fair 
     value of underlying net assets (see Note 2).
      
     Other.  Interest income on cash and equivalents and short-term investments
     was $3.8, $4.9 and $2.8 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
      

     Note 6. Other Balance Sheet Captions
     

     

     

     

     As discussed in Note 3, in accordance with SFAS 121, the Company recorded a
     charge representing long-lived assets held for disposal and impairment of
     assets. 

     

     As discussed in Note 1, effective December 31, 1997, the Company changed
     its method of evaluating the recoverability of goodwill.  Also, see Note 3
     for discussion of goodwill impairment recorded during fourth quarter 1997.

     

     

     See Note 3 for discussion of reserves established for restructuring and
     other charges.


     Note 7. Long-Term Debt
     

     

     

     On May 5, 1995, the Company established a new credit agreement in the
     amount of $400 million.  The credit agreement replaced approximately $420
     million of then existing Company credit agreements which had been in place
     for varying periods since 1992.  Proceeds of the facility have been and 
     are anticipated to be used for general corporate purposes.  The agreement
     contains a facility fee ranging from .07 - .25% per annum, interest rates
     below prime and terms ranging from one to five years.  The Company also 
     has various other lines of credit lines totaling $160 million.  These
     additional lines, which are available for general corporate purposes, have
     interest rates below prime and terms of less than one year.  At December
     31, 1997, the Company had $313.0 million outstanding under its various
     lines of credit.  Among other provisions, the agreements limit subsidiary
     indebtedness and sale of assets, and require certain coverage ratios to be
     maintained.

     As discussed in Note 2, in January 1997, the Company made an approximate
     $297 million capital contribution to Grupo TFM, of which approximately 
     $277 million was used by Grupo TFM for the purchase of TFM.  This payment 
     was funded using borrowings under the Company's lines of credit.

     Public Debt Transactions.  On December 18, 1995, the Company issued $100
     million of 7% Debentures due 2025.  The Debentures are redeemable at the
     option of the Company at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption
     price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of such
     Debentures or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled
     payments of principal and interest thereon discounted to the date of
     redemption on a semiannual basis at the Treasury Rate (as defined in the
     Debentures agreement) plus 20 basis points, and in each case accrued
     interest thereon to the date of redemption.  The net proceeds of this
     transaction were used to repay indebtedness on the Company's existing 
     lines of credit and for the repurchase of KCSI common stock.

     Other Company public indebtedness includes $100 million of 5.75% Notes due
     in 1998; $100 million of 6.625% Notes due in 2005; $100 million of 7.875%
     Notes due 2002; and $100 million of 8.8% Debentures due 2022. The various
     Notes are not redeemable prior to their respective maturities.  The 8.8%
     Debentures are redeemable on or after July 1, 2002 at a premium of 104.04%,
     which declines to par on or after July 1, 2012.

     These various debt transactions were issued at a total discount of $4.1
     million.  This discount is being amortized over the respective debt
     maturities on a straight-line basis, which is not materially different 
     from the interest method.  Deferred debt issue costs incurred in
     connection with these various transactions (totaling approximately 
     $4.8 million) are also being amortized on a straight-line basis over 
     the respective debt maturities.

     KCSI ESOP.  In 1988, the Company established a $39 million leveraged ESOP
     (see Note 9).  Related indebtedness was guaranteed by the Company.
      
     In 1995, the Company retired the remaining ESOP indebtedness through
     contributions totaling $13.2 million, which included $9.0 million in
     accelerated payments.
      

     

     KCSR Indebtedness.  KCSR has purchased rolling stock under conditional
     sales agreements, equipment trust certificates and capitalized lease
     obligations, which equipment has been pledged as collateral for the 
     related indebtedness.

     Other Agreements, Guarantees, Provisions and Restrictions. As previously
     noted, the Company has debt agreements containing restrictions on
     subsidiary indebtedness, advances and transfers of assets, and sale and
     leaseback transactions, as well as requiring compliance with various
     financial covenants.  At December 31, 1997, the Company was in compliance
     with the provisions and restrictions of these agreements.  Because of
     certain financial covenants contained in the credit agreements, however,
     maximum utilization of the Company's available lines of credit may be
     restricted.  Unrestricted retained earnings at December 31, 1997 were
     $204.7 million.
      
     Leases and Debt Maturities.  The Company and its subsidiaries lease
     transportation equipment, and office and other operating facilities under
     various capital and operating leases.  Rental expenses under operating
     leases were $64, $42 and $30 million for the years 1997, 1996 and 1995,
     respectively.  As more fully described in Note 2, in connection with the
     Southern Capital joint venture transactions completed in October 1996, 
     KCSR entered into operating leases with Southern Capital for locomotives 
     and railroad rolling stock.  Accordingly, 1997 rental expense under 
     operating leases was higher than previous years.

     


     Fair Value of Long-Term Debt.  Based upon the borrowing rates currently
     available to the Company and its subsidiaries for indebtedness with 
     similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of long-term debt was
     approximately $947, $663 and $679 million at December 31, 1997, 1996 and
     1995, respectively.

     

     Note 8. Income Taxes
      
     Under the liability method of accounting for income taxes specified by
     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 "Accounting for Income
     Taxes," the deferred tax liability is determined based on the difference
     between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities as
     measured by the enacted tax rates which will be in effect when these
     differences reverse.  Generally, deferred tax expense is the result of
     changes in the liability for deferred taxes.

     

     


     

     

     

     Based upon the Company's history of operating earnings and its expecta-
     tions for the future, management has determined that operating income of
     the Company will, more likely than not, be sufficient to recognize fully 
     the above gross deferred tax assets.

     

      
     Tax Carryovers.  At December 31, 1997, the Company had $4.0 million of
     alternative minimum tax credit carryover generated by MidSouth and Gateway
     Western prior to acquisition by the Company.  These credits can be carried
     forward indefinitely and are available on a "tax return basis" to reduce
     future federal income taxes payable.

     

     The amount of federal NOL carryover generated by MidSouth and Gateway
     Western prior to acquisition was $67.8 million. The Company utilized
     approximately $24.1 and $31.9 million of these NOL's in 1997 and 1996,
     respectively, leaving approximately $11.8 million of carryover available,
     with expiration dates beginning in the year 2005.  The use of
     preacquisition net operating losses and tax credit carryovers is subject to
     limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code.  The Company does not
     anticipate that these limitations will affect utilization of the 
     carryovers prior to their expiration.
      
     Tax Examinations.  Examinations of the consolidated federal income tax
     returns by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") have been completed for
     the years 1990-1992 and the IRS has proposed certain tax assessments for
     these years.  For years prior to 1988, the statute of limitations has
     closed, and for 1988-1989, all issues raised by the IRS examinations have
     been resolved.  In addition, other taxing authorities have also completed
     examinations principally through 1992, and have proposed additional tax
     assessments for which the Company believes it has recorded adequate
     reserves.
      
     Since most of these asserted tax deficiencies represent temporary
     differences, subsequent payments of taxes will not require additional
     charges to income tax expense.  In addition, accruals have been made for
     interest (net of tax benefit) for estimated settlement of the proposed tax
     assessments.  Thus, management believes that final settlement of these
     matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
     consolidated results of operations or financial condition.

     Note 9. Stockholders' Equity
     

     Stock Option Plans. Employee Stock Option Plans established in 1978, 1983,
     1987 and 1991, as amended, provide for the granting of options to purchase
     up to 58.8 million shares (after stock splits) of the Company's common
     stock by officers and other designated employees. In addition, the Company
     established a 1993 Directors' Stock Option Plan with a maximum of 360,000
     shares for grant.  Such options have been granted at 100% of the average
     market price of the Company's stock on the date of grant and generally may
     not be exercised sooner than one year, nor longer than ten years following
     the date of the grant, except that options outstanding for six months or
     more, with limited rights, become

     

     immediately exercisable upon certain defined circumstances constituting a
     change in control of the Company.  The Plans include provisions for stock
     appreciation rights and limited rights ("LRs").  All outstanding options
     include LRs, except for options granted to non-employee Directors.

     

     

     


     Shares available for future grants at December 31, 1997 aggregated
     10,483,867.

     

     Stock Purchase Plan.  The ESPP, established in 1977, provides to
     substantially all full-time employees of the Company, certain subsidiaries
     and certain other affiliated entities, the right to subscribe to an
     aggregate of 22.8 million shares of common stock.  The purchase price for
     shares under any stock offering is to be 85% of the average market price 
     on either the exercise date or the offering date, whichever is lower, but 
     in no event less than the par value of the shares.  At December 31, 1997,
     there were approximately 11.8 million shares available for future
     offerings.
     

     

     The weighted-average fair value of purchase rights granted under the Tenth
     and Ninth Offerings of the ESPP were $3.56 and $3.49, respectively.  There
     were no offerings in 1997.

     Forward Stock Purchase Contract.  During 1995, the Company entered into a
     forward stock purchase contract ("the contract") as a means of securing a
     potentially favorable price for the repurchase of six million shares of 
     its common stock in connection with the stock repurchase program 
     authorized by the Company's Board of Directors on April 24, 1995.  During 
     1997 and 1996, the Company purchased (post-split) 2.4 and 3.6 million 
     shares, respectively, under this arrangement at an aggregate price of 
     $39 and $56 million (including transaction premium), respectively.  The 
     contract contained provisions which allowed the Company to elect a net 
     cash or net share settlement in lieu of physical settlement of the shares;
     however, all shares were physically settled.  The transaction was recorded
     in the Company's financial statements upon settlement of the contract in
     accordance with the Company's accounting policies described in Note 1.

     Employee Stock Ownership Plan.  In 1987 and 1988, KCSI and DST established
     leveraged ESOPs for employees not covered by collective bargaining agree-
     ments by collectively purchasing $69 million of KCSI common stock from
     Treasury at a then current market price of $49 per share ($4.08 per share
     effected for stock splits).  During 1990, the two plans were merged into
     one plan known as the KCSI ESOP.  The indebtedness was retired in full
     during 1995.  In October 1995, the ESOP became a multiple employer plan
     covering both KCSI employees and DST employees, and was renamed The
     Employee Stock Ownership Plan.  KCSI contributions to its portion of the
     ESOP are based on a percentage (determined by the Compensation Committee of
     the Board of Directors) of wages earned by eligible employees.

     
      
     The Company's employee benefit expense for the ESOP aggregated $2.9, $2.4
     and $5.7 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  Interest incurred
     on the indebtedness was $0.8 million in 1995.  Dividends used to service
     the ESOP indebtedness were $1.6 million in 1995.
      
     Employee Plan Funding Trust.  On October 1, 1993, KCSI transferred one
     million shares of KCSI Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Series B
     Preferred Stock") to the Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc. Employee
     Plan Funding Trust ("the Trust"), a grantor trust established by KCSI. 
     The purchase price of the stock (based upon an independent valuation) was
     $200 million, which the Trust financed through KCSI.  The indebtedness of
     the Trust to KCSI is repayable over 27 years with interest at 6% per year,
     with no principal payments in the first three years.  The Trust, which is
     administered by an independent bank trustee and consolidated into the
     Company's financial statements, will repay the indebtedness to KCSI
     utilizing dividends and other investment income, as well as other cash
     obtained from KCSI.  As the debt is reduced, shares of the Series B
     Preferred Stock, or shares of common stock acquired on conversion, may be
     released and available for distribution to various KCSI employee benefit
     plans, including its ESOP, Stock Option Plan and Stock Purchase Plans. 
     Principal payments totaling $21.1 million have been made since inception;
     however, no shares have been released or are available for distribution to
     these plans.  Only shares that have been released and allocated to
     employees are considered for purposes of computing diluted earnings per
     share.
      
     The Series B Preferred Stock, which has a $10 per share (5%) annual
     dividend and a $200 per share liquidation preference, is convertible into
     common stock at an initial ratio of twelve shares of common stock for each
     share of Series B Preferred Stock.  The Series B Preferred Stock is
     redeemable after April 1, 1995 at a specified premium and under certain
     other circumstances.
      
     The Series B Preferred Stock can be held only by the Trust or its
     beneficiaries - the employee benefit plans of KCSI.  The full terms of the
     Series B Convertible Preferred Stock are set forth in a Certificate of 
     Designations approved by the Board of Directors and filed in Delaware.
      
     Treasury Stock.  The Company issued shares of common stock from Treasury -
     2,031,162 in 1997, 1,557,804 in 1996 and 1,569,960 in 1995  - to fund the
     exercise of options and subscriptions under various employee stock option
     and purchase plans.  Treasury stock previously acquired had been accounted
     for as if retired.  The Company purchased shares as follows:  2,863,983 in
     1997, 9,829,599 in 1996 and 14,935,371 in 1995 .
        

     Note 10. Minority Interest
      
     Purchase Agreements.  Agreements between KCSI and Janus minority owners
     contain, among other provisions, mandatory stock purchase provisions
     whereby under certain circumstances, KCSI would be required to purchase
     the minority interest of Janus.

     In late 1994, the Company was notified that certain Janus minority owners
     made effective the mandatory purchase provisions for a certain percentage
     of their ownership.  In the aggregate, the value of the shares made
     effective for mandatory purchase totaled $59 million.  Concurrent with the
     notification of these mandatory purchase provisions, the Company 
     negotiated the early termination of certain Janus compensation arrange-
     ments, which began in 1991.  These compensation arrangements, which were 
     scheduled to be fully vested at the end of 1996, permitted individuals to 
     earn units (which vested over time) based upon Janus earnings, and would 
     have continued to accrue benefits in subsequent years.  The negotiated 
     termination resulted in payments of $48 million in cash by Janus, of which
     approximately $21  million had been accrued.

     

     In early 1995, the Janus employees whose compensation arrangements were
     terminated used their after-tax net proceeds to purchase certain portions
     of the shares made available due to the mandatory purchase notification
     discussed above. In addition, the Janus minority group was restructured to
     allow for minority ownership by other key Janus employees. These employees
     also purchased portions of the minority shares (available as a result of
     the mandatory purchase notification) through payment of $10.5 million in
     cash and recourse loans financed by KCSI.  The remaining minority shares
     made effective for mandatory purchase were purchased by Janus ($6.1
     million, as treasury stock) and KCSI ($12.7 million). 

     As a result of KCSI's acquisition of additional Janus shares and the
     reduction of total outstanding Janus shares (from Janus' treasury
     purchase), KCSI increased its ownership in Janus from approximately 81% to
     83% in January 1995.  Additional purchases were made by minority holders
     during 1995, partially financed through recourse loans by KCSI in the
     original amount of $8.8 million.  The Company also purchased shares,
     thereby maintaining its respective ownership percentage.  The KCSI share
     purchases resulted in the recording of intangibles as the purchase price
     exceeded the value of underlying tangible assets.  The intangibles are
     being amortized over their estimated economic lives.

     The purchase prices of these mandatory stock purchase provisions are based
     upon a multiple of earnings and/or fair market value determinations
     depending upon specific agreement terms.  If all of the provisions of the
     Janus minority owner agreements became effective, KCSI would be required to
     purchase the respective minority interests at a cost currently estimated at
     approximately $337 million.


     Note 11. Profit Sharing and Other Postretirement Benefits
      
     Profit Sharing.  Qualified profit sharing plans are maintained for most
     employees not included in collective bargaining agreements.  Contributions
     for the Company and its subsidiaries are made at the discretion of the
     Boards of Directors in amounts not to exceed the maximum allowable for
     federal income tax purposes.  Profit sharing expense was $2.1 and $1.8
     million in 1997 and 1996, respectively. There was no profit sharing 
     expense for the year ended December 31, 1995.

     401(k) Plan.  Effective January 1, 1996, the Company transferred its
     participating employees from the DST 401(k) Employee Savings Plan into the
     Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc. 401(k) Plan and Trust Agreement
     ("401(k) plan").  The Company's 401(k) plan permits participants to make
     contributions by salary reduction pursuant to section 401(k) of the
     Internal Revenue Code.  The Company matches contributions up to a maximum
     of 3% of compensation.  In connection with the required match, the
     Company's contribution to the plan was $1.3 and $1.2 million in 1997 and
     1996, respectively.

     Other Postretirement Benefits.  The Company adopted Statement of Financial
     Accounting Standards No. 106 "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
     Benefits Other Than Pensions" ("SFAS 106"), effective January 1, 1993. 
     The Company and several of its subsidiaries provide certain medical, life
     and other postretirement benefits other than pensions to its retirees. 
     With the exception of the Gateway Western plans, which we discussed below,
     the medical and life plans are available to employees not covered under
     collective bargaining arrangements, who have attained age 60 and rendered
     ten years of service.  Individuals employed as of December 31, 1992 were
     excluded from a specific service requirement.  The medical plan is
     contributory and provides benefits for retirees, their covered dependents
     and beneficiaries.  Benefit expense begins to accrue at age 40.  The
     medical plan was amended effective January 1, 1993 to provide for annual
     adjustment of retiree contributions, and also contains, depending on the
     plan coverage selected, certain deductibles, copayments, coinsurance and
     coordination with Medicare.  The life insurance plan is non-contributory
     and covers retirees only.  The Company's policy, in most cases, is to fund
     benefits payable under these plans as the obligations become due.  
     However, certain plan assets (e.g., money market funds) do exist with 
     respect to life insurance benefits.


     

     


     

     The Company's health care costs, excluding Gateway Western, are limited to
     the increase in the Consumer Price Index ("CPI") with a maximum annual
     increase of 5%.  Accordingly, health care costs in excess of the CPI limit
     will be borne by the plan participants, and therefore assumptions 
     regarding health care cost trend rates are not applicable.

     

     Gateway Western's benefit plans are slightly different from those of the
     Company and other subsidiaries.  Gateway Western provides contributory
     health, dental and life insurance benefits to substantially all of its
     active and retired employees, including those covered by collective
     bargaining agreements. Effective January 1, 1998, existing Gateway Western
     management employees converted to the Company's benefit plans.  For 1997,
     the assumed annual rate of increase in health care costs for Gateway
     Western employees choosing a preferred provider organization was 8% and 7%
     for those choosing the health maintenance organization option, decreasing
     over five years to 6% and 5%, respectively, to remain level thereafter.

     The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the
     Gateway Western amounts represented.  An increase in the assumed health
     care cost trend rates by one percent in each year would increase the
     accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by $.4 million.  The effect
     of this change on the aggregate of the service and interest cost 
     components of the net periodic postretirement benefit is immaterial.

     

     Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies
      
     Litigation Reserves.  In the opinion of management, claims or lawsuits
     incidental to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries have been
     adequately provided for in the consolidated financial statements.

     Bogalusa Cases
     In July 1996, the Company was named as one of twenty-seven defendants in
     various lawsuits in Louisiana and Mississippi arising from the explosion of
     a rail car loaded with chemicals in Bogalusa, Louisiana on October 23,
     1995.  As a result of the explosion, nitrogen dioxide and oxides of
     nitrogen were released into the atmosphere over parts of that town and the
     surrounding area causing evacuations and injuries.  Approximately 25,000
     residents of Louisiana and Mississippi have asserted claims to recover
     damages allegedly caused by exposure to the chemicals.

     The Company neither owned nor leased the rail car or the rails on which it
     was located at the time of the explosion in Bogalusa. The Company did, 
     however, move the rail car from Jackson to Vicksburg, Mississippi, where 
     it was loaded with chemicals, and back to Jackson where the car was 
     tendered to the Illinois Central Railroad Company ("IC").  The explosion 
     occurred more than 15 days after the Company last transported the rail 
     car.  The car was loaded by the shipper in excess of its standard weight 
     when it was transported by the Company to interchange with the IC.

     The lawsuits arising from the chemical release have been scheduled for
     trial in the fall of 1998.  The Company sought dismissal of these suits in
     the trial courts, which was denied in each case.  Appeals are pending in
     the appellate courts of Louisiana and Mississippi.

     The Company believes that its exposure to liability in these cases is
     remote.  If the Company were to be found liable for punitive damages in
     these cases, such a judgment could have a material adverse effect on the
     financial condition of the Company.

     Diesel Fuel Commitments.  KCSR has a program to hedge against fluctuations
     in the price of its diesel fuel purchases.  Any gains or losses associated
     with changes in market value of these hedges are deferred and recognized 
     in the period in which they occur as a component of fuel cost in the 
     period in which the hedged fuel is purchase and used.  To the extent 
     KCSR hedges portions of its fuel purchases, it may not fully benefit from 
     decreases in fuel prices.

     Beginning in 1998, KCSR hedged approximately 37% of its anticipated 1998
     fuel requirements.  The hedge transactions represent fuel swaps for
     approximately two million gallons per month.  These contracts have
     expiration dates through February 28, 1999 and are correlated to market
     benchmarks.  Hedge positions are monitored to ensure that they will not
     exceed actual fuel requirements in any period.  Additionally, KCSR entered
     into purchase commitments for fuel aggregating approximately 27% of total
     1998 anticipated fuel usage.

     As of December 31, 1995, the Company had commitments to purchase
     approximately $14 million of diesel fuel over the subsequent twelve month
     period, representing approximately 50% of projected fuel requirements for
     1996.  The Company entered into minimal commitments for 1997.  

     Foreign Exchange Matters.  As discussed in Note 1, in connection with the
     Company's investment in Grupo TFM, a Mexican company, the Company follows
     the requirements outlined in SFAS 52 (and related authoritative guidance)
     with respect to financial accounting and reporting for foreign currency
     transactions and for translating foreign currency financial statements 
     from Mexican pesos into U.S. dollars.

     

     The purchase price paid by Grupo TFM for 80% of the common stock of TFM was
     fixed in Mexican pesos; accordingly, the U.S. dollar equivalent fluctuated
     as the U.S. dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate changed. The Company's
     capital contribution (approximately $298 million U.S.) to Grupo TFM in
     connection with the initial installment of the TFM purchase price was made
     based on the U.S. dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate on January 31, 1997.

     Grupo TFM paid the remaining 60% of the purchase price in Mexican pesos on
     June 23, 1997.  As discussed above, the final installment was funded using
     proceeds from Grupo TFM debt financing and the sale of 24.5% of Grupo TFM
     to the Mexican Government.  In the event that the proceeds from these
     arrangements would not have provided funds sufficient for Grupo TFM to 
     make the final installment of the purchase price, the Company may have 
     been required to make additional capital contributions.  Accordingly, 
     in order to hedge a portion of the Company's exposure to a fluctuations 
     in the value of the Mexican peso versus the U.S. dollar, the Company 
     entered into two separate forward contracts to purchase Mexican pesos - 
     $98 million in February 1997 and $100 million in March 1997.  In April 
     1997, the Company realized a $3.8 million pretax gain in connection with 
     these contracts.  This gain was deferred until the final installment of 
     the TFM purchase price was made in June 1997, at which time, it was 
     accounted for as a component of the Company's investment in Grupo TFM.  
     These contracts were intended to hedge only a portion of the Company's 
     exposure related to the final installment of the purchase price and not 
     any other transactions or balances.

     Mexico's economy is currently classified as "highly inflationary" as
     defined in SFAS 52.  Accordingly, the U.S. dollar is assumed to be Grupo
     TFM's functional currency, and any gains or losses from translating Grupo
     TFM's financial statements into U.S. dollars will be included in the
     determination of its net income.  Any equity earnings or losses from Grupo
     TFM included in the Company's results of operations will reflect the
     Company's share of such translation gains and losses. 
     The Company continues to evaluate existing alternatives with respect to
     utilizing foreign currency instruments to hedge its U.S. dollar investment
     in Grupo TFM as market conditions change or exchange rates fluctuate.  At
     December 31, 1997, the Company had no outstanding foreign currency hedging
     instruments.

     Environmental Liabilities.  The Company's transportation operations are
     subject to extensive regulation under environmental protection laws and 
     its land holdings have been used for transportation purposes or leased to
     third-parties for commercial and industrial purposes.  The Company records
     liabilities for remediation and restoration costs related to past
     activities when the Company's obligation is probable and the costs can be
     reasonably estimated.  Costs of ongoing compliance activities to current
     operations are expensed as incurred.

     The Company's recorded liabilities for these issues represent its best
     estimates (on an undiscounted basis) of remediation and restoration costs
     that may be required to comply with present laws and regulations.  At
     December 31, 1997, these recorded liabilities were not material.  Although
     these costs cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that
     the ultimate outcome of identified matters will not have a material 
     adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations or 
     financial condition.

     Panama Railroad Concession.  The Government of Panama has granted a
     concession to the Panama Canal Railway Company ("PCRC"), a joint venture
     of KCSI and Mi-Jack Products, Inc., to operate a railroad between Panama
     City and Colon.  Upon completion of certain infrastructure improvements,
     the PCRC will operate an approximate 47-mile railroad running parallel to
     the Panama Canal and connecting the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. The PCRC
     has committed to making at least $30 million in capital improvements and
     investments in Panama over the next five year period.  The Company expects
     its contribution related to the PCRC project to be less than $10 million. 
     PCRC is in the process of evaluating the overall needs and requirements of
     the project and alternative financing opportunities.

     

     Note 13. Control
      
     Subsidiaries and Affiliates.  In connection with its acquisition of an
     interest in Janus, the Company entered into an agreement which provides 
     for preservation of a measure of management autonomy at the subsidiary  
     level and for rights of first refusal on the part of minority 
     stockholders, Janus and the Company with respect to certain sales of
     Janus stock by the minority stockholders.  The agreement also requires 
     the Company to purchase the shares of minority stockholders in certain 
     circumstances.  In addition, in the event of a "change of ownership" of 
     the Company, as defined in the agreement, the Company may be required to 
     sell its stock of Janus to the minority stockholders or to purchase such 
     holders' Janus stock.  Purchase and sales transactions under the 
     agreements are to be made based upon a multiple of the net earnings of 
     Janus and/or fair market value determinations, as defined therein.  See 
     Note 10 for further details.

     Under the Investment Company Act of 1940, certain changes in ownership of
     Janus or Berger may result in termination of its investment advisory
     agreements with the mutual funds and other accounts it manages, requiring
     approval of fund shareholders and other account holders to obtain new
     agreements.

     DST, an approximate 41% owned unconsolidated affiliate of the Company, has
     a Stockholders' Rights Agreement.  Under certain circumstances following a
     "change in control" of KCSI, as defined in DST's Stockholders' Rights
     Agreement, substantial dilution of the Company's interest in DST could
     result.  The Company is party to certain agreements with TMM covering the 
     Grupo TFM and Mexrail ventures, which contain "change of control" 
     provisions, provisions intended to preserve Company's and TMM's 
     proportionate ownership of the ventures, and super majority provisions 
     with respect to voting on certain significant transactions.  Such agree-
     ments also provide a right of first refusal in the event that either party
     initiates a divestiture of its equity interest in Grupo TFM or Mexrail.  
     Under certain circumstances, such agreements could affect the Company's 
     ownership percentage and rights in these equity affiliates.

     Employees.  The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have entered into
     agreements with employees whereby, upon defined circumstances constituting
     a change in control of the Company or subsidiary, certain stock options
     become exercisable, certain benefit entitlements are automatically funded
     and such employees are entitled to specified cash payments upon termina-
     tion of employment.
      
     Assets.  The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have established
     trusts to provide for the funding of corporate commitments and entitlements
     of officers, directors, employees and others in the event of a specified
     change in control of the Company or subsidiary.  Assets held in such trusts
     at December 31, 1997 were not material.  Depending upon the circumstances
     at the time of any such change in control, the most significant factor of
     which would be the highest price paid for KCSI common stock by a party
     seeking to control the Company, funding of the Company's trusts could be
     very substantial.
      
     Debt.  Certain loan agreements and debt instruments entered into or
     guaranteed by the Company and its subsidiaries provide for default in the
     event of a specified change in control of the Company or particular
     subsidiaries of the Company.

     

     Stockholder Rights Plan.  On September 19, 1995, the Board of Directors of
     the Company declared a dividend distribution of one Right for each
     outstanding share of the Company's common stock, $.01 par value per share
     (the "Common Stock"), to the stockholders of record on October 12, 1995.
     Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company
     1/1,000th of a share of Series A Preferred Stock (the "Preferred Stock")
     or in some circumstances, Common Stock, other securities, cash or other
     assets as the case may be, at a price of $210 per share, subject to
     adjustment.

     The Rights, which are automatically attached to the Common Stock, are not
     exercisable or transferable apart from the Common Stock until the tenth
     calendar day following the earlier to occur of (unless extended by the
     Board of Directors and subject to the earlier redemption or expiration of
     the Rights): (i) the date of a public announcement that an acquiring person
     acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 20
     percent or more of the outstanding shares of the Common Stock of the
     Company (or 15 percent in the case that such person is considered an
     "adverse person"), or (ii) the commencement or announcement of an
     intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer that would result 
     in an acquiring person beneficially owning 20 percent or more of such 
     outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company (or 15 percent in the 
     case that such person is considered an "adverse person").  Until 
     exercised, the Right will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company, 
     including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends. 
     In connection with certain business combinations resulting in the 
     acquisition of the Company or dispositions of more than 50% of 
     Company assets or earnings power, each Right shall thereafter 
     have the right to receive, upon the exercise thereof at the then 
     current exercise price of the Right, that number of shares of the 
     highest priority voting securities of the acquiring company (or certain 
     of its affiliates) that at the time of such transaction would have a 
     market value of two times the exercise price of the Right.  The Rights 
     expire on October 12, 2005, unless earlier redeemed by the Company as 
     described below.

     At any time prior to the tenth calendar day after the first date after the
     public announcement that an acquiring person has acquired beneficial
     ownership of 20 percent (or 15 percent in some instances) or more of the
     outstanding shares of the Common Stock of the Company, the Company may
     redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.005 per
     Right.  In addition, the Company's right of redemption may be 
     reinstated following an inadvertent trigger of the Rights (as determined 
     by the Board) if an acquiring person reduces its beneficial ownership 
     to 10 percent or less of the outstanding shares of Common Stock
     of the Company in a transaction or series of transactions not involving 
     the Company.

     The Series A Preferred shares purchasable upon exercise of the Rights will
     have a cumulative quarterly dividend rate set by the Board of Directors or
     equal to 1,000 times the dividend declared on the Common Stock for such
     quarter. Each share will have the voting rights of one vote on all matters
     voted at a meeting of the stockholders for each 1/1,000th share of
     preferred stock held by such stockholder.  In the event of any merger,
     consolidation or other transaction in which the common shares are
     exchanged, each Series A Preferred share will be entitled to receive an
     amount equal to 1,000 times the amount to be received per common share. In
     the event of a liquidation, the holders of Series A Preferred shares will
     be entitled to receive $1,000 per share or an amount per share equal to
     1,000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of
     Common Stock.  The shares will not be redeemable.  The vote of holders of
     a majority of the Series A Preferred shares, voting together as a class,
     will be required for any amendment to the Company's Certificate of
     Incorporation which would materially and adversely alter or change the
     powers, preferences or special rights of such shares.

     

     Note 14. Industry Segments
      
     The Company's two segments, aligned to reflect the Company's current
     operations, are as follows:
      
     Transportation.  The Company operates a Class I Common Carrier railroad
     system through its wholly-owned subsidiary, KCSR.  As a common carrier,
     KCSR's customer base includes utilities and a wide range of companies in
     the petroleum/chemical, agricultural and paper processing industries, among
     others.  The railroad system operates primarily in the United States, from
     the Midwest to the Gulf of Mexico and on an East-West axis from Dallas,
     Texas to Meridian, Mississippi.  In addition, the Company's wholly-owned
     subsidiary Gateway Western, operates a regional common carrier rail system
     primarily on an East-West axis from East St. Louis, Illinois to Kansas
     City, Missouri.  Like KCSR, Gateway Western serves customers in a wide
     range of industries.

     KCSR and Gateway Western's revenues and earnings are dependent on provid-
     ing reliable service to its customers at competitive rates, the general
     economic conditions in the geographic region it serves, and its ability to
     effectively compete against alternative forms of surface transportation,
     such as over-the-road truck transportation.  KCSR and Gateway Western's
     ability to construct and maintain its roadway in order to provide safe and
     efficient transportation service is important to its ongoing viability as
     a rail carrier.  Additionally, the containment of costs and expenses is
     important in maintaining a competitive market position, particularly with
     respect to employee costs as approximately 85% of KCSR and Gateway
     Western's combined employees are covered under various collective
     bargaining agreements.  The Transportation segment also includes 
     the Company's equity investment in Grupo TFM, a Mexican entity.  
     Grupo TFM has certain risks associated with operating in Mexico, 
     including, among others, foreign currency exchange, cultural 
     differences, varying labor and operating practices, and differences 
     between the U.S. and Mexican economies. 

     Also included in the Transportation segment are several less material
     subsidiaries (most of which provide support and/or services for KCSR), as
     well as equity earnings from investments in certain unconsolidated
     affiliates other than Grupo TFM (including Southern Capital and Mexrail),
     holding company expenses, intercompany eliminations, and miscellaneous
     investment activities.

     Financial Asset Management.  Janus (an 83% owned subsidiary) and Berger (a
     wholly-owned subsidiary) manage investments for mutual funds and private
     accounts.  Both companies operate throughout the United States, as well as
     in parts of Europe, with headquarters in Denver, Colorado.  Janus assets
     under management at December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 were $67.8, $46.7 and
     $31.1 billion, respectively.  Berger assets under management at December
     31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 were $3.8, $3.6 and $3.4 billion, respectively. 
      
     Financial Asset Management revenues and operating income are driven
     primarily by growth in assets under management, and a decline in the stock
     and bond markets and/or an increase in the rate of return of alternative
     investments could negatively impact results.  In addition, the mutual fund
     market, in general, faces increasing competition as the number of mutual
     funds continues to increase, marketing and distribution channels become
     more creative and complex, and investors place greater emphasis on
     published fund recommendations and investment category rankings. 

     DST is included as an equity investment reported in the Financial Asset
     Management segment.  DST provides sophisticated information processing and
     computer software services and products, primarily to mutual funds,
     insurance providers, banks and other financial services organizations. DST
     operates throughout the United States, with its base of operations in the
     Midwest and, through certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates,
     internationally in Canada, Europe, Africa and the Pacific Rim.  The earn-
     ings of DST are dependent in part upon the further growth of the mutual
     fund industry in the United States, DST's ability to continue to adapt its
     technology to meet increasingly complex and rapidly changing requirements

     

     and various other factors including, but not limited to: reliance on a
     centralized processing facility; further development of international
     businesses; continued equity in earnings from joint ventures; and
     competition from other third party providers of similar services and
     products as well as from in-house providers.

     Segment Financial Information.  Sales between segments were not material in
     1997, 1996 or 1995.  The year ended December 31, 1995 reflects DST as an
     unconsolidated affiliate as of January 1, 1995 as a result of the DST
     public offering and associated transactions completed in November 1995, as
     discussed in Note 2.  Certain amounts in prior years' segment information
     have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.


     

     

     

     

     

     Note 15. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
      
     Quarterly financial data follows.  Certain amounts in the quarterly
     financial data have been reclassified to conform to the current year
     presentation.

     Fourth Quarter 1997 includes an after-tax charge of $158.1 million, ($1.47
     per basic and diluted share) representing restructuring, asset impairment
     and other charges.  See detailed discussion in Notes 1, 3 and 6.
      
     
      
 (i)   The various components of the Statement of Operations have been
       restated from those reported in the Company's Form 10-Q for the three
       months ended March 31, 1997.  This restatement is attributable to the
       inclusion of Gateway Western as an unconsolidated wholly-owned
       subsidiary during first quarter 1997 pending approval of the Company's
       acquisition of Gateway Western from the STB.  Upon receiving STB
       approval in May 1997, Gateway Western was included in the Company's
       consolidated financial statements retroactive to January 1, 1997.
      
 (ii)  The accumulation of 1997's four quarters for Basic and Diluted
       earnings (loss) per share does not total the Basic and Diluted loss per
       share, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 1997 due to the
       repurchase and issuance of Company's common stock throughout the year as
       well as the anti-dilutive nature of options in the year ended December
       31, 1997 EPS calculation.

     

     Third Quarter 1996 includes a one-time after-tax gain of $47.7 million (or
     $.42 per basic share, $.41 per diluted share), representing the Company's
     proportionate share of the one-time gain recognized by DST in connection
     with the merger of Continuum, formerly a DST unconsolidated equity
     affiliate, with Computer Sciences Corporation in a tax-free share exchange
     (see Note 2).

     
      

 (i)   The accumulation of 1996's four quarters for Basic and Diluted
       earnings per share is greater than the Basic and Diluted earnings per
       share, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 1996 due to
       significant repurchases of Company common stock throughout the year.

     

    Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
               Financial Disclosure

     None.


     

                                      Part III

     The Company has incorporated by reference certain responses to the Items 
     of this Part III pursuant to Rule 12b-23 under the Exchange Act and  
     General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K.  The Company's definitive proxy 
     statement for the annual meeting of stockholders scheduled for April 30,
     1998 ("Proxy Statement") will be filed no later than 120 days after 
     December 31, 1997.

     Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Company

     (a) Directors of the Company

     The information set forth in response to Item 401 of Regulation S-K under
     the heading "Proposal 1 - Election of Four Directors" and "The Board of
     Directors" in the Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
     reference in partial response to this Item 10.

     (b) Executive Officers of the Company

     The information set forth in response to Item 401 of Regulation S-K under
     "Executive Officers of the Company," an unnumbered Item in Part I
     (immediately following Item 4, Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
     Holders), of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference in partial
     response to this Item 10.

     The information set forth in response to Item 405 of Regulation S-K under
     the heading "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
     of 1934" in the Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
     reference in partial response to this Item 10.


     Item 11.  Executive Compensation

     The information set forth in response to Item 402 of Regulation S-K under
     "Management Compensation and Compensation of Directors" in the Company's
     Proxy Statement, (other than The Compensation and Organization Committee
     Report on Executive Compensation and the Stock Performance Graph), is
     incorporated by reference in response to this Item 11.


     Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     The information set forth in response to Item 403 of Regulation S-K under
     the heading "Principal Stockholders and Stock Owned Beneficially by
     Directors and Certain Executive Officers" in the Company's Proxy Statement
     is hereby incorporated by reference in response to this Item 12.

     The Company has no knowledge of any arrangement the operation of which may
     at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the Company.


     Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The information set forth in response to Item 404 of Regulation S-K under
     the heading "Transactions with Management" in the Company's Proxy
     Statement is incorporated herein by reference in response to this Item 13.

     
                                       Part IV


     Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

     (a) List of Documents filed as part of this Report

     (1) Financial Statements

     The financial statements and related notes, together with the report of
     Price Waterhouse LLP dated February 26, 1998, appear in Part II Item 8,
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.

     (2) Financial Statement Schedules

     The schedules and exhibits for which provision is made in the applicable
     accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission appear in
     Part II Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, under the
     Index to Financial Statements of this Form 10-K.

     (3)       List of Exhibits

     (a) Exhibits

     The Company has incorporated by reference herein certain exhibits as
     specified below pursuant to Rule 12b-32 under the Exchange Act.

     (2) Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or
         succession
         (Inapplicable)

     (3) Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws

         Articles of Incorporation

         3.1   Exhibit 4 to Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 
               originally filed September 19, 1986 (Commission File No. 
               33-8880), Certificate of Incorporation as amended through May
               14, 1985, is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.1

         3.2   Exhibit 4.1 to Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
               October 1, 1993 (Commission File No. 1-4717), 
               Certificate of Designation dated September 29, 1993
               Establishing Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, par value
               $1.00, is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.2

         3.3   Exhibit 3.1 to Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
               December 31, 1994 (Commission File No. 1-4717), 
               Amendment to Company's Certificate of Incorporation
               to set par value for common stock and increase the
               number of authorized common shares dated May 6, 1994, is hereby
               incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.3

         3.4   Exhibit 3.4 to Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
               December 31, 1996 (Commission File No. 1-4717), 
               Amended Certificate of Designation Establishing
               the New Series A Preferred Stock, par value $1.00, dated November
               7, 1995, is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.4

     


         3.5   The Certificate of Amendment dated May 12, 1987 of the 
               Company's Certificate of Incorporation adding the 
               Sixteenth paragraph, is attached to this Form 10-K as 
               Exhibit 3.5

         Bylaws

         3.6   Exhibit 3.1 to Company's Form 10-Q for the period 
               ended September 30, 1997 (Commission File No. 1-4717), 
               Company's By-Laws, as amended and restated May 1, 1997,
               is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.6

     (4) Instruments Defining the Right of Security Holders, Including
     Indentures

         4.1   The Fourth, Seventh, Eighth, Twelfth, 
               Thirteenth, Fifteenth and Sixteenth paragraphs
               of Exhibit 3.1 hereto are incorporated by reference as
               Exhibit 4.1

         4.2   Article I, Sections 1,3 and 11 of Article II, 
               Article V and Article VIII of Exhibit 3.6
               hereto are incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.2

         4.3   The Certificate of Designation dated September 29, 1993 
               establishing Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, 
               par value $1.00, which is attached hereto as 
               Exhibit 3.2, is incorporated by reference as Exhibit
               4.3

         4.4   The Amended Certificate of Designation dated 
               November 7, 1995 establishing the New Series A
               Preferred Stock, par value $1.00, which is attached hereto as
               Exhibit 3.4, is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.4

         4.5   Exhibit 4 to Company's Form S-3 filed June 19, 1992 
               (Commission File No. 33-47198), the Indenture to a $300 
               million Shelf Registration of Debt Securities
               dated July 1, 1992, is hereby incorporated by reference as
               Exhibit 4.5

         4.6   Exhibit 4(a) to Company's Form S-3 filed March 29, 1993 
               (Commission File No. 33-60192), the Indenture to a $200 
               million Medium Term Notes Registration of Debt Securities 
               dated July 1, 1992, is hereby incorporated by
               reference as Exhibit 4.6

         4.7   Exhibit 99 to Company's Form 8-A dated October 24, 1995 
               (Commission File No. 1-4717), which is the Stockholder Rights 
               Agreement by and between the Company and Harris Trust and 
               Savings Bank dated as of September 19, 1995, is hereby 
               incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.7

     (9) Voting Trust Agreement
         (Inapplicable)

     (10)Material Contracts

         10.1  Exhibit I to Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               December 31, 1987 (Commission File No. 1-4717), The Director
               Indemnification Agreement, is hereby incorporated by reference 
               as Exhibit 10.1

         10.2  Exhibit B to Company's Definitive Proxy Statement for 1987 
               Annual Stockholder Meeting dated April 6, 1987, The Director
               Indemnification Agreement, is hereby incorporated by reference 
               as Exhibit 10.2

         


         10.3  The Indenture dated July 1, 1992 to a $300 million Shelf
               Registration of Debt Securities, which is incorporated by
               reference as Exhibit 4.5 hereto, is hereby incorporated by
               reference as Exhibit 10.3

         10.4  Exhibit H to Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               December 31, 1987 (Commission File No. 1-4717), The Officer
               Indemnification Agreement, is hereby incorporated by reference 
               as Exhibit 10.4

         10.5  Exhibit 10.1 to Company's Form 10-Q for the period ended March
               31, 1997 (Commission File No. 1-4717), The Kansas City Southern
               Railway Company Directors' Deferred Fee Plan as adopted August
               20, 1982 and the amendment thereto effective March 19, 1997 to
               such plan, is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.5

         10.6  Exhibit 10.4 to Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               December 31, 1990 (Commission File No. 1-4717), Description of
               the Company's 1991 incentive compensation plan, is hereby
               incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.6

         10.7  The Indenture dated July 1, 1992 to a $200 million Medium Term
               Notes Registration of Debt Securities, which is incorporated as
               Exhibit 4.6 hereto, is hereby incorporated by reference as
               Exhibit 10.7

         10.8  Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period
               ended June 30, 1997 (Commission File No. 1-4717), Five-Year
               Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated
               May 2, 1997, by and between the Company and the lenders named
               therein, is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.8

         10.9  Exhibit 10.4 in the DST Systems, Inc. Registration Statement on
               Form S-1 dated October 30, 1995, as amended (Registration 
               No. 33-96526), Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, dated 
               October 23, 1995, by and between the Company and DST Systems, 
               Inc., is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.9

         10.10 Exhibit 10.6 to the DST Systems, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 1995 (Commission File No. 1-
               14036), the 1995 Restatement of The Employee Stock Ownership 
               Plan and Trust Agreement, is hereby incorporated by reference as
               Exhibit 10.10

         10.11 Exhibit 4.1 to the DST Systems, Inc. Registration Statement on
               Form S-1 dated October 30, 1995, as amended (Registration No.33-
               96526), The Registration Rights Agreement dated October 24, 1995
               by and between DST Systems, Inc. and the Company, is hereby
               incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.11

         10.12 Exhibit 10.1 to Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1995 (Commission File No. 1-4717), Employment Agreement, as
               amended and restated January 1, 1996, by and between the
               Company, The Kansas City Southern Railway Company and Michael 
               R. Haverty, is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.12

         10.13 Exhibit 10.14 to Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1996 (Commission File No. 1-4717), 1983 Employee Stock 
               Option Plan, as amended and restated September 26, 1996, is 
               hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.13
     

         10.14 Exhibit 10.15 to Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1996 (Commission File No. 1-4717), 1987 Employee Stock 
               Option Plan, as amended and restated September 26, 1996, is 
               hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.14

         10.15 Exhibit 10.18 to Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1996 (Commission File No. 1-4717), Directors Deferred Fee
               Plan, adopted August 20, 1982, amended and restated February 1,
               1997, is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.15

         10.16 Exhibit 10.19 to Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1996 (Commission File No. 1-4717), The Kansas City Southern
               Industries, Inc. Executive Plan (amended and restated), as
               restated January 1, 1992, is hereby incorporated by reference as
               Exhibit 10.16

         10.17 Exhibit 10.20 to Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1996 (Commission File No. 1-4717), Amendment No. 1 as of May
               15, 1995, to the Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc. Executive
               Plan (restated), as restated January 1, 1992, is hereby
               incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.17

         10.18 Exhibit 10.21 to Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1996 (Commission File No. 1-4717), Amendment No. 2 dated
               January 23, 1997, to the Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc.
               Executive Plan (restated), as restated January 1, 1992, is 
               hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.18

         10.19 1991 Stock Option and Performance Award Plan, as amended and
               restated September 18, 1997, is attached to this Form 10-K as
               Exhibit 10.19

         10.20 Employment Agreement, as amended and restated September 18, 
               1997, by and between the Company and Landon H. Rowland is 
               attached to this Form 10-K as Exhibit 10.20

         10.21 Employment Agreement, as amended and restated September 18, 
               1997, by and between the Company and Joseph D. Monello is 
               attached to this Form 10-K as Exhibit 10.21

         10.22 Employment Agreement, as amended and restated September 18,
               1997, by an between the company and Danny R. Carpenter is 
               attached to this Form 10-K as Exhibit 10.22

     (11) Statement Re Computation of Per Share Earnings
         (Inapplicable)

     (12) Statements Re Computation of Ratios

         12.1  The Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges prepared
               pursuant to Rule 14(a)(3) under the Exchange Act is attached to
               this Form 10-K as Exhibit 12.1

     (13) Annual Report to Security Holders, Form 10-Q or Quarterly Report to
          Security Holders
         (Inapplicable)

     (16) Letter Re Change in Certifying Accountant
         (Inapplicable)

     

     (18) Letter Re Change in Accounting Principles

         18.1  A letter from the Company's independent accountant, Price
               Waterhouse LLP, discussing the change in methodology for
               evaluating the recoverability of goodwill to a preferable
               alternative method is attached to this Form 10-K at Exhibit 18.1

     (21) Subsidiaries of the Company

         21.1  The list of the Subsidiaries of the Company prepared pursuant to
               Rule 14(a)(3) under the Exchange Act is attached to this Form 
               10-K as Exhibit 21.1

     (22) Published Report Regarding Matters Submitted to Vote of Security
          Holders
         (Inapplicable)

     (23) Consents of Experts and Counsel

         23.1  The Consent of Independent Accountants prepared pursuant to Rule
               14(a)(3) under the Exchange Act is attached to this Form 10-K as
               Exhibit 23.1

     (24) Power of Attorney
         (Inapplicable)

     (27) Financial Data Schedule
      
         27.1  The Financial Data Schedule prepared pursuant to Rule 14(a)(3)
               under the Exchange Act is attached to this Form 10-K as Exhibit
               27.1

     (28) Information from Reports Furnished to State Insurance Regulatory
          Authorities
         (Inapplicable)

     (99) Additional Exhibits

         99.1  The consolidated financial statements of DST Systems, Inc.
               (including the notes thereto and the Report of Independent
               Accountants thereon) set forth under Item 8 of the DST Systems,
               Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
               1997 (Commission File No. 1-14036), as listed under Item 14(a)(2)
               herein, are hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.1

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

     The Company did not file any Form 8-K's during the three months ended
     December 31, 1997.

     

     SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed
     on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc.

     March 13, 1998                          By: / s / L.H. Rowland
                                              L.H. Rowland, Chairman, 
                                            President, Chief Executive 
                                               Officer and Director

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
     report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
     Company and in the capacities indicated on March 13, 1998.

             Signature               Capacity


           /s/ L.H. Rowland          Chairman, President, Chief Executive
             L.H. Rowland              Officer and Director

           /s/ M.R. Haverty          Executive Vice President and Director
             M.R. Haverty           

           /s/J.D. Monello           Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
             J.D. Monello              (Principal Financial Officer)

           /s/ L.G. Van Horn         Vice President and Comptroller
            L.G. Van Horn              (Principal Accounting Officer)

          /s/ A.E. Allinson          Director
            A.E. Allinson

          /s/ P.F. Balser            Director
             P.F. Balser

          /s/ J.E. Barnes            Director
             J.E. Barnes

          /s/ M.G. Fitt              Director
             M.G. Fitt

         /s/ J.R. Jones              Director
            J.R. Jones

        /s/ J.F. Serrano             Director
           J.F. Serrano

       /s/ M.I. Sosland              Director
          M.I. Sosland

     

                        KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
                             1997 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
                                  INDEX TO EXHIBITS


                                                        Regulation S-K
     Exhibit                                            Item 14(a)(3)
       No.                      Document                  Exhibit No.



     10.19        1991 Stock Option and Performance 
                  Award Plan, as amended
                  and restated September 18, 1997              10


     10.20        Employment Agreement as amended 
                  and restated September 18, 1997, 
                  by and between the Company and
                  Landon H. Rowland                            10


     10.21        Employment Agreement as amended 
                  and restated September 18, 1997, 
                  by and between the Company and
                  Joseph D. Monello                            10


     10.22        Employment Agreement as amended 
                  and restated September 18, 1997, 
                  by and between the Company and
                  Danny R. Carpenter                           10


     12.1         Computation of Ratio of Earnings 
                  to Fixed Charges                             12


     18.1         Letter of Preferability from 
                  Independent Accountants regarding
                  revision in method of evaluating the 
                  recoverability of goodwill                   18


     21.1         Subsidiaries of the Company                  21

     23.1         Consent of Independent Accountants           23

     27.1         Financial Data Schedule                      27


                            _____________________________





