
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR YEAR ENDED 12/31/98


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934       For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

[ ]      TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from ____ to ____

                          Commission file number 1-4717

                      KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
               (Exact name of Company as specified in its charter)

                        Delaware                          44-0663509
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
  incorporation or organization)                

114 West 11th Street, Kansas City, Missouri                       64105
 (Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip Code)

         Company's telephone number, including area code (816) 983-1303

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:
                                                       Name of each exchange on
      Title of each class                                   which registered
Preferred Stock, Par Value $25 Per                      New York Stock Exchange
Share, 4%, Noncumulative   

Common Stock, $.01 Per Share Par Value                  New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Company (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the  Company  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X] NO [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Company's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy or  information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

Company  Stock.  The  Company's  common  stock is listed  on the New York  Stock
Exchange  under the  symbol  "KSU." As of March 8, 1999,  109,694,604  shares of
common stock and 242,710 shares of voting preferred stock were  outstanding.  On
such date, the aggregate  market value of the voting and  non-voting  common and
preferred stock was  $5,159,408,393  (amount computed based on closing prices of
preferred and common stock on New York Stock Exchange).

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
Portions of the following  documents are  incorporated  herein by reference into
Part of the Form 10-K as indicated:

Document                              Part of Form 10-K into which incorporated

Company's Definitive Proxy Statement                      Parts I, III 
for the 1999 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, which will be filed no 
later than 120 days after December 31, 1998






                      KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
                          1998 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

                                
                                                                         Page


                                     PART I

Item 1.      Business....................................................   1
Item 2.      Properties..................................................   5
Item 3.      Legal Proceedings...........................................   9
Item 4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.........   9
             Executive Officers of the Company...........................   9


                                     PART II

Item 5.      Market for the Company's Common Stock and
               Related Stockholder Matters...............................  11
Item 6.      Selected Financial Data.....................................  11
Item 7.      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
               Condition and Results of Operations ......................  13
Item 7(A)    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk..  56
Item 8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................  60
Item 9.      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
               Accounting and Financial Disclosure....................... 104


                                     PART III

Item 10.     Directors and Executive Officers of the Company............. 105
Item 11.     Executive Compensation...................................... 105
Item 12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
               Management................................................ 105
Item 13.     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.............. 105


                                     PART IV

Item 14.     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
               on Form 8-K............................................... 106
             Signatures.................................................. 111



                                       ii





                                     Part I

Item 1.  Business

(a)  GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF COMPANY BUSINESS

The  information  set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K under Part
II Item 7,  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and
Results of Operations, of this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference in partial
response to this Item 1.


(b)  INDUSTRY SEGMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Kansas  City  Southern  Industries,  Inc.  ("Company"  or  "KCSI")  reports  its
financial  information in two business  segments:  Transportation  and Financial
Services.

Kansas  City  Southern  Lines,   Inc.   ("KCSL")  is  the  holding  company  for
Transportation segment subsidiaries and affiliates. This segment includes, among
others,  The Kansas City Southern  Railway  Company  ("KCSR"),  Gateway  Western
Railway Company  ("Gateway  Western"),  and strategic joint venture interests in
Grupo Transportacion Ferroviaria Mexicana, S.A. de C.V.("Grupo TFM"), which owns
80% of the common stock of TFM, S.A. de C.V. ("TFM"), Mexrail, Inc. ("Mexrail"),
which wholly owns the Texas Mexican  Railway  Company ("Tex Mex"),  and Southern
Capital Corporation, LLC ("Southern Capital"), a 50% owned joint venture.

FAM  Holdings,  Inc.  ("FAM HC") has been formed for the purpose of becoming the
holding  company for the  subsidiaries  and affiliates  comprising the Financial
Services  segment.  The  primary  entities  included  in this  segment are Janus
Capital  Corporation  ("Janus" - 82% owned,  diluted),  Berger Associates,  Inc.
("Berger" - 100% owned) and Nelson Money  Managers  plc  ("Nelson" - 80% owned).
Additionally,  the  Company  owns an  approximate  32%  equity  interest  in DST
Systems,  Inc.  ("DST,"  formerly  a 41% owned  investment  prior to the  merger
transaction in December 1998 as discussed below).

The  information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K relative to
financial information by industry segment for the three years ended December 31,
1998 under Part II Item 7,  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of  Operations,  of this Form 10-K,  and Item 8, Financial
Statements and  Supplementary  Data, at Note 13 - Industry Segments of this Form
10-K, is incorporated by reference in partial response to this Item 1.


(c)  NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS

The  information  set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K under Part
II Item 7,  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and
Results of Operations, of this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference in partial
response to this Item 1.

Transportation

KCSL,  along  with its  principal  subsidiaries  and  joint  ventures,  owns and
operates a rail  network of  approximately  6,000 miles of main and branch lines
that links key  commercial  and  industrial  markets  in the  United  States and
Mexico.  Together with its strategic alliance with the Canadian National Railway
Company/Illinois  Central Corporation  ("CN/IC") and other marketing agreements,
KCSL's  reach has been  expanded  to  comprise  a  contiguous  rail  network  of
approximately  25,000  miles of main and branch  lines  connecting  Canada,  the
United States and Mexico.  The Company  believes that the economic growth within
the United States,  Mexico and Canada is developing along a north/south axis and
becoming   more   interconnected   and   interdependent   as  a  result  of  the
implementation of the North American Free Trade 



Agreement ("NAFTA").  In order to capitalize on the growing trade resulting from
NAFTA,  KCSL  has  transformed  itself  from a  regional  rail  carrier  into an
extensive North American transportation  network.  During the mid-1990's,  while
other  railroad  competitors  concentrated  on  enlarging  their  share  of  the
east/west  transcontinental  traffic in the  United  States,  KCSL  aggressively
pursued  acquisitions,   joint  ventures,   strategic  alliances  and  marketing
partnerships  with other  railroads  to achieve its goal of creating  the "NAFTA
Railway."

KCSL's  rail  network  connects  midwestern,   eastern  and  Canadian  shippers,
including  shippers  utilizing  Chicago and Kansas City -- the two largest  rail
centers in the United  States -- with the largest  industrial  centers of Canada
and Mexico,  including  Toronto,  Edmonton,  Mexico City and  Monterrey.  KCSL's
principal  subsidiary,  KCSR,  which  traces  its  origins  to 1887,  offers the
shortest  route  between  Kansas  City and major port  cities  along the Gulf of
Mexico in  Louisiana,  Mississippi  and Texas.  KCSR,  in  conjunction  with the
Norfolk Southern Railway Co. ("Norfolk Southern"), operates the most direct rail
route,  referred to as the "Meridian  Speedway,"  linking the Atlanta and Dallas
gateways for traffic moving between the rapidly-growing  southeast and southwest
regions of the United  States.  The "Meridian  Speedway"  also provides  eastern
shippers and other U.S. and Canadian  railroads with an efficient  connection to
Mexican markets.

In addition to KCSR,  KCSL's  railroad system includes  Gateway  Western,  which
links Kansas City with East St. Louis and Springfield, Illinois and provides key
interchanges  with the  majority  of  other  Class I  railroads,  as well as its
strategic joint venture interests in Grupo TFM and Mexrail, which provide direct
access to Mexico.

Through its joint  ventures in Grupo TFM and  Mexrail,  operated in  partnership
with  Transportacion   Maritima  Mexicana,   S.A.  de  C.V.  ("TMM"),  KCSL  has
established  a prominent  position in the growing  Mexican  market.  TFM's route
network provides the shortest  connection to the major industrial and population
areas of Mexico from  midwestern and eastern  points in the United States.  TFM,
which was  privatized  by the Mexican  government in June 1997,  passes  through
Mexican  states  comprising   approximately  69%  of  Mexico's   population  and
accounting for approximately  70% of Mexico's  estimated gross domestic product.
Tex Mex connects  with TFM at Laredo,  Texas,  (the single  largest rail freight
transfer  point  between  the United  States  and  Mexico),  other U.S.  Class I
railroads, as well as with KCSR at Beaumont, Texas.

As a result of the KCSR/CN/IC  strategic alliance to promote NAFTA traffic,  the
Company has gained  access to customers in Detroit,  Michigan and Canada as well
as more direct access to Chicago. Separate marketing agreements with the Norfolk
Southern  and I&M Rail Link,  LLC provide  KCSL with access to  additional  rail
traffic  to and from the  eastern  and upper  midwestern  markets  of the United
States.  KCSL's  system,  through  its core  network,  strategic  alliances  and
marketing  partnerships,  interconnects  with  all  Class I  railroads  in North
America.


Financial Services

The Financial Services segment includes Janus, Berger, Nelson and a 32% interest
in DST. Janus and Berger,  each  headquartered in Denver,  Colorado,  are United
States  investment   advisors   registered  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  ("SEC").  Janus  serves  as  an  investment  advisor  to  the  Janus
Investment Funds ("Janus Funds") and Janus Aspen Series ("Janus Aspen"), as well
as  to  institutional  and  individual  private  accounts   (including  pension,
profit-sharing  and other employee benefit plans,  trusts,  estates,  charitable
organizations,  endowments  and  foundations)  and other  investment  companies.
Berger is also engaged in the business of providing  financial asset  management
services and products,  principally  through  sponsorship  of a family of mutual
funds  (the  "Berger  Complex").  Nelson,  a United  Kingdom  company,  provides
investment  planning and investment  management services to individuals that are
retired or  contemplating  retirement.  DST,  together with its subsidiaries and
joint  ventures,  provides  sophisticated  information  processing  and computer
software services and products to the financial services industry  (primarily to
mutual  funds and  investment  managers),  communications  industries  and 


other  service  industries.  DST is  organized  into three  operating  segments:
financial services, customer management and output solutions.

Janus derives its revenues and net income  primarily from  diversified  advisory
services  provided to the Janus Funds,  Janus Aspen,  other  financial  services
firms  and  private  accounts.  In  order to  perform  its  investment  advisory
functions,   Janus  conducts  fundamental   investment  research  and  valuation
analysis.  In general,  Janus'  approach  tends to focus on  companies  that are
experiencing  or expected to experience  above average growth  relative to their
peers or the  economy,  or that are  realizing  or expected to realize  positive
change due to new product development, new management,  changing demographics or
regulatory  developments.  This approach  utilizes  research provided by outside
parties, as well as in-house research.

Janus has three wholly-owned  subsidiaries:  Janus Service  Corporation  ("Janus
Service"),  Janus Capital International,  Ltd. ("Janus International") and Janus
Distributors, Inc. ("Janus Distributors").

o    Pursuant  to  transfer  agency  agreements,  which are  subject  to renewal
     annually,  Janus Service provides full service  accounting,  recordkeeping,
     administration  and shareowner  services to the Janus Funds and Janus Aspen
     and their  shareholders.  To provide the  consistent  and reliable level of
     service required to compete effectively in the direct distribution channel,
     Janus Service maintains a highly trained group of telephone representatives
     and utilizes  leading edge technology to provide  immediate data to support
     call center and shareholder processing  operations.  This approach includes
     the  utilization of automated  phone lines and an interactive  Internet web
     site ("Virtual  Janus") both of which are integrated  into the  shareholder
     services system.  These customer service related enhancements provide Janus
     Service with additional capacity to handle the high shareholder volume that
     can be experienced during market volatility.

o    Janus  International is an investment  advisor registered with the SEC that
     executes  securities  trades  from  London,  England.  Beginning  in fourth
     quarter 1998,  Janus launched a series of funds  domiciled in Ireland,  the
     Janus World Funds PLC ("Janus World").

o    Pursuant to a  distribution  agreement,  Janus  Distributors  serves as the
     distributor  of the Janus Funds,  Janus World and certain  classes of Janus
     Aspen and is a registered broker-dealer.

Berger is an investment  advisor to the Berger Complex,  which includes a series
of Berger mutual  funds,  as well as  sub-advised  mutual funds and pooled asset
trusts. Berger derives its revenues and net income from these advisory services.
Additionally,  Berger is a 50% owner in a joint venture with the Bank of Ireland
Asset Management (U.S.) Limited ("BIAM"). The joint venture, BBOI Worldwide LLC,
serves as the investment advisor to the Berger/BIAM Funds and Berger acts as the
sub-administrator.

Nelson  provides two distinct,  but  interrelated  services to individuals  that
generally  are  retired  or  contemplating  retirement:  investment  advice  and
investment  management.  Clients are assigned a specific investment advisor, who
meets with each client  individually  and  conducts an analysis of the  client's
investment  objectives and then  recommends the  construction  of a portfolio to
meet those  objectives.  The design and  ongoing  maintenance  of the  portfolio
structure is the  responsibility  of the investment  advisor.  The selection and
management of the  instruments/securities  which constitute the portfolio is the
responsibility of Nelson's investment management team. Revenues are earned based
on a percentage of the initial  client  investment as well as from a monthly fee
based on the level of assets under management.

DST operates  throughout  the United  States,  with  operations  in Kansas City,
Northern  California  and  various  locations  on the  East  Coast,  as  well as
internationally in Canada,  Europe, Africa and the Pacific Rim. DST has a single
class of stock, its common stock, which is publicly traded on the New York Stock
Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange.  Prior to November 1995, KCSI owned all
of the  stock of DST.  In  November  1995,  a  public  offering  reduced  KCSI's
ownership interest in DST to approximately 41%. In December 1998, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of DST merged with USCS International,  Inc. The merger resulted in a
reduction of KCSI's ownership of DST to  approximately  32%. KCSI reports DST as
an equity investment in the consolidated financial statements.



Employees.  As of December 31, 1998, the approximate number of employees of KCSI
and its majority owned subsidiaries was as follows:




Item 2.  Properties

In the opinion of  management,  the various  facilities,  office space and other
properties  owned  and/or  leased  by the  Company  (and  its  subsidiaries  and
affiliates) are adequate for existing operating needs.


TRANSPORTATION (KCSL)

KCSR
KCSR owns and operates  approximately  2,756 miles of main and branch lines, and
approximately  1,175 miles of other tracks,  in a nine state  region,  including
Missouri,  Kansas,  Arkansas,   Oklahoma,   Mississippi,   Alabama,   Tennessee,
Louisiana,  and Texas.  Approximately  215 miles of main and branch lines and 85
miles of other tracks are operated by KCSR under trackage rights and leases.

Kansas City  Terminal  Railway  Company  (of which KCSR is a partial  owner with
other railroads) owns and operates approximately 80 miles of track, and operates
an additional eight miles of track under trackage rights in greater Kansas City,
Missouri.  KCSR also leases for operating  purposes  certain  short  sections of
trackage  owned by various  other  railroad  companies  and jointly owns certain
other facilities with such railroads.

KCSR and the Union Pacific  Railroad  ("UP") have a haulage and trackage  rights
agreement,  which gives KCSR access to Nebraska and Iowa, and additional  routes
in Kansas, Missouri and Texas for movements of certain limited types of traffic.
The  haulage  rights  require  the UP to move KCSR  traffic  in UP  trains;  the
trackage rights allow KCSR to operate its trains over UP tracks.

KCSR,  in support of its  transportation  operations,  owns and operates  repair
shops,  depots and office  buildings along its  right-of-way.  A major facility,
Deramus Yard, is located in Shreveport,  Louisiana and includes a general office
building,  locomotive  repair shop, car repair shops,  customer  service center,
material warehouses and fueling facilities totaling approximately 227,000 square
feet. KCSR owns a 107,800 square foot major diesel locomotive repair facility in
Pittsburg,  Kansas and freight and truck maintenance  buildings in Dallas, Texas
totaling  approximately 125,200 square feet. KCSR and KCSI executive offices are
located in an eight story  office  building  in Kansas  City,  Missouri  and are
leased from a subsidiary of the Company.  Other facilities owned by KCSR include
a 21,000 square foot car repair shop in Kansas City,  Missouri and approximately
15,000 square feet of office space in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

KCSR owns and operates seven intermodal facilities. These facilities are located
in Dallas and Port Arthur,  Texas; Kansas City,  Missouri;  Sallisaw,  Oklahoma;
Shreveport and New Orleans, Louisiana; and Jackson, Mississippi. The facility in
Port  Arthur  is owned and  operated  jointly  with the  Norfolk  Southern.  The
facility  in Jackson  was  completed  in December  1996.  The various  locations
include  strip  tracks,  cranes and other  equipment  used in  facilitating  the
transfer and movement of trailers and containers.








As of December 31, 1998, KCSR's fleet of locomotives and rolling stock consisted
of 426 diesel  locomotives,  of which 108 were owned, 298 leased from affiliates
and 20 leased from  non-affiliates,  as well as 15,691  freight  cars,  of which
3,998  were  owned,   3,113  leased  from   affiliates  and  8,580  leased  from
non-affiliates.  A  significant  portion of the  locomotives  and rolling  stock
leased from affiliates  include  equipment  leased through Southern  Capital,  a
joint venture with GATX Capital Corporation formed in October 1996.

Some of the owned equipment is subject to liens created under  conditional sales
agreements,  equipment  trust  certificates  and leases in  connection  with the
original purchase or lease of such equipment.  KCSR indebtedness with respect to
equipment trust  certificates,  conditional  sales agreements and capital leases
totaled approximately $78.8 million at December 31, 1998.




Maintenance expenses for Way and Structure and Equipment (pursuant to regulatory
accounting rules, which include depreciation) for the three years ended December
31, 1998 and as a percent of KCSR revenues are as follows (dollars in millions):





  * Way  and  structure   expenses   include  $33.5  million  related  to  asset
    impairments.  See Part II Item 7,  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Form 10-K for further
    discussion.

Gateway Western
Gateway  Western  operates  a 402 mile rail line  extending  from  Kansas  City,
Missouri to East St.  Louis and  Springfield,  Illinois.  Additionally,  Gateway
Western has  restricted  haulage  rights  extending  to Chicago,  Illinois.  The
Gateway  Western  acquisition  provides  interchanges  with various eastern rail
carriers and gave the Company access to the St. Louis rail gateway.  The Surface
Transportation  Board approved the Company's  acquisition of Gateway  Western in
May 1997.


Mexrail
Mexrail, a 49% owned KCSI affiliate,  owns 100% of the Tex Mex and certain other
assets,  including the northern  U.S.  half of a rail traffic  bridge at Laredo,
Texas spanning the Rio Grande river. Grupo TFM operates the southern half of the
bridge. This bridge is a significant entry point for rail traffic between Mexico
and the U.S.  The Tex Mex  operates a 157 mile rail line  extending  from Corpus
Christi to Laredo,  Texas,  and also has  trackage  rights  (from Union  Pacific
Railroad) totaling  approximately 360 miles between Corpus Christi and Beaumont,
Texas.

The Tex Mex is  currently  in the  process  of  constructing  a new rail yard in
Laredo,  Texas.  Phase I of the  project  was  completed  in  December  1998 and
includes  four  tracks  comprising  approximately  6.5  miles.  Phase  II of the
project,  which consists of two new intermodal tracks totaling approximately 2.8
miles, is expected to be completed in March 1999.  Ground work for an additional
ten tracks has been completed;  however,  construction on the tracks has not yet
begun.  Current  capacity of the yard is  approximately  800 freight cars.  Upon
completion of all tracks, expected capacity will be 2,000 freight cars.



Grupo  TFM  Grupo TFM owns 80% of the  common  stock of TFM.  TFM holds the
concession to operate  Mexico's  "Northeast  Rail Lines" for 50 years,  with the
option of a 50 year  extension  (subject to certain  conditions).  TFM  operates
approximately  2,661 miles of main line and an  additional  838 miles of sidings
and spur tracks, and main line under trackage rights. Approximately 80% of TFM's
main line  consists of welded rail.  TFM has the right to operate the rail,  but
does not own the land,  roadway or associated  structures.  331  locomotives are
owned by TFM and approximately 4,034 freight cars are either owned by TFM or



leased from  affiliates.  89 locomotives  and 2,846 freight cars are leased
from  non-affiliates.  Grupo TFM  (through  TFM) also has office  space at which
various operational,  accounting, managerial and other activities are performed.
The primary  facilities  are located in Mexico City and Monterrey,  Mexico.  TFM
leases  140,354  square feet of office  space in Mexico City and owns an 115,157
square foot facility in Monterrey.  Grupo TFM was a 37% owned KCSI  affiliate at
December 31, 1998.

Other Transportation
Southern Group, Inc. leases  approximately  4,150 square feet of office space in
downtown Kansas City, Missouri from an affiliate of DST.

The  Company  is an 80% owner of  Wyandotte  Garage  Corporation,  which  owns a
parking  facility in downtown  Kansas  City,  Missouri.  The facility is located
adjacent to the Company's and KCSR's  executive  offices,  and consists of 1,147
parking spaces utilized by the employees of the Company and its  affiliates,  as
well as the general public.

Trans-Serve,  Inc.  operates  a  railroad  wood tie  treating  plant in  Vivian,
Louisiana under an industrial  revenue bond lease  arrangement with an option to
purchase.  This facility includes buildings totaling approximately 12,000 square
feet.

Pabtex,  Inc. owns a 70 acre coal and petroleum  coke bulk handling  facility in
Port Arthur, Texas.

Mid-South  Microwave,  Inc. owns and operates a microwave system,  which extends
essentially along the right-of-way of KCSR from Kansas City, Missouri to Dallas,
Beaumont  and Port  Arthur,  Texas and New  Orleans,  Louisiana.  This system is
leased to KCSR.

Other  subsidiaries  of the  Company  own  approximately  8,000 acres of land at
various points adjacent to the KCSR right-of-way.  Other properties also include
a 354,000  square foot  warehouse  at  Shreveport,  Louisiana,  a bulk  handling
facility at Port Arthur,  Texas, and several former railway  buildings now being
rented to non-affiliated companies, primarily as warehouse space.

The Company owns 1,025 acres of property  located on the  waterfront in the Port
Arthur, Texas area, which includes 22,000 linear feet of deep water frontage and
three docks.  Port Arthur is an uncongested  port with direct access to the Gulf
of Mexico. Approximately 75% of this property is available for development.


FINANCIAL SERVICES (FAM HC)

Janus
Janus leases from  non-affiliates  340,000  square feet of office space in three
facilities for investment,  administrative,  marketing,  information technology,
and shareowner processing  operations,  and approximately 33,500 square feet for
mail  processing  and storage  requirements.  These  corporate  offices and mail
processing facilities are located in Denver,  Colorado. In September 1998, Janus
opened a 51,500 square foot investor  service and data center in Austin,  Texas.
Janus also leases 2,200 square feet of office space in Westport, Connecticut for
development  of the Janus World Funds PLC and 2,500  square feet of office space
in London,  England for securities research and trading. In December 1998, Janus
closed its investor service center in Kansas City,  Missouri to focus efforts on
providing quality service through various electronic communication avenues.

Berger
Berger  leases  approximately  29,800  square  feet of office  space in  Denver,
Colorado from a non-affiliate for its administrative and corporate functions.



Nelson
Nelson  leases  8,000  square  feet of office  space in  Chester,  England,  the
location of its corporate  headquarters,  investment  operations  and one of its
marketing offices. During 1998, Nelson acquired additional office space adjacent
to its Chester location to accommodate  expansion  efforts.  Also, Nelson leases
five branch marketing  offices totaling  approximately  8,500 square feet in the
following locations in England: London, Lichfield, Bath, Durham and Edinburgh.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

The  information  set forth in response to Item 103 of Regulation S-K under Part
II Item 7,  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and
Results of Operations,  "Other - Litigation and  Environmental  Matters" of this
Form 10-K is  incorporated by reference in response to this Item 3. In addition,
see discussion in Part II Item 8, Financial  Statements and Supplementary  Data,
at Note 11 - Commitments and Contingencies of this Form 10-K.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were  submitted to a vote of security  holders during the three month
period ended December 31, 1998.

Executive Officers of the Company

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K and instruction 3 to paragraph
(b) of  Item  401 of  Regulation  S-K,  the  following  list is  included  as an
unnumbered  Item in Part I of this Form 10-K in lieu of being included in KCSI's
Definitive  Proxy  Statement  which  will be filed no later  than 120 days after
December 31, 1998. All executive  officers are elected annually and serve at the
discretion  of the Board of Directors  (or in the case of Mr. T. H. Bailey,  the
Janus Board of  Directors).  Certain of the executive  officers have  employment
agreements with the Company.

Name                   Age             Position(s)
L.H. Rowland           61       Chairman, President and
                                  Chief Executive Officer of the Company
M.R. Haverty           54       Executive Vice President, Director
T.H. Bailey            61       Chairman, President and
                                  Chief Executive Officer of
                                  Janus Capital Corporation
P.S. Brown             62       Vice President, Associate General
                                  Counsel and Assistant Secretary
R.P. Bruening          60       Vice President, General Counsel and
                                  Corporate Secretary
D.R. Carpenter         52       Vice President - Finance
W.K. Erdman            40       Vice President - Corporate Affairs
A.P. McCarthy          52       Vice President and Treasurer
J.D. Monello           54       Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
L.G. Van Horn          40       Vice President and Comptroller


The  information  set forth in the Company's  Definitive  Proxy Statement in the
description  of the Board of  Directors  with  respect  to Mr.  Rowland  and Mr.
Haverty is incorporated herein by reference.

Mr. Bailey has  continuously  served as Chairman,  President and Chief Executive
Officer of Janus Capital Corporation since 1978.



Mr. Brown has continuously  served as Vice President,  Associate General Counsel
and Assistant Secretary since July 1992.

Mr.  Bruening has  continuously  served as Vice  President,  General Counsel and
Corporate  Secretary  since July 1995.  From May 1982 to July 1995, he served as
Vice President and General Counsel.  He also serves as Senior Vice President and
General Counsel of KCSR.

Mr. Carpenter has continuously served as Vice President - Finance since November
1996. He was Vice President - Finance and Tax from May 1995 to November 1996. He
was Vice President - Tax from June 1993 to May 1995.  Prior to June 1993, he was
a member in the law firm of Watson & Marshall L.C., Kansas City, Missouri.

Mr. Erdman has continuously  served as Vice President - Corporate  Affairs since
April 1997.  From  January  1997 to April 1997 he served as Director - Corporate
Affairs. From 1987 to January 1997 he served as Chief of Staff for United States
Senator from Missouri, Christopher ("Kit") Bond.

Mr. McCarthy has  continuously  served as Vice President and Treasurer since May
1996. He was Treasurer from December 1989 to May 1996.

Mr.  Monello  has  continuously  served as Vice  President  and Chief  Financial
Officer  since March 1994.  From October  1992 to March 1994,  he served as Vice
President - Finance.

Mr. Van Horn has continuously served as Vice President and Comptroller since May
1996. He was Comptroller from October 1992 to May 1996.

There are no arrangements or understandings  between the executive  officers and
any  other  person  pursuant  to which  the  executive  officer  was or is to be
selected as an officer,  except with respect to the executive  officers who have
entered into employment  agreements,  which agreements designate the position(s)
to be held by the executive officer.

None of the above officers are related to one another by family.






                                     Part II

Item 5.  Market for the Company's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

The information set forth in response to Item 201 of Regulation S-K on the cover
(page i) under the heading  "Company  Stock,"  and in Part II Item 8,  Financial
Statements  and  Supplementary  Data,  at Note  14 -  Quarterly  Financial  Data
(Unaudited) of this Form 10-K is incorporated  by reference in partial  response
to this Item 5.

The  payment  and  amount  of  dividends  will  be  reviewed   periodically  and
adjustments  considered  that are  consistent  with growth in real  earnings and
prevailing  business  conditions.  In July 1997, the Board  authorized a 3-for-1
split in the Company's common stock.
Unrestricted  retained  earnings of the Company at December 31, 1998 were $480.9
million.

As of March 8, 1999,  there were 5,709  holders of the  Company's  common  stock
based upon an accumulation of the registered stockholder listing.


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data
(in millions, except per share and ratio data)

The  selected  financial  data  below  should  be read in  conjunction  with the
consolidated  financial statements and the related notes thereto, and the Report
of Independent Accountants thereon, included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and
such data is qualified by reference thereto.



(i)  Includes  a  one-time  non-cash  charge  of $36.0  million  ($23.2  million
     after-tax,  or $0.21 per basic and diluted share) resulting from the merger
     of a wholly-owned subsidiary of DST with USCS International, Inc. ("USCS").
     The merger was accounted for by DST under the pooling of interests  method.
     The charge  reflects the  Company's  reduced  ownership of DST (from 41% to
     approximately 32%), together with the Company's  proportionate share of DST
     and  USCS  fourth  quarter  merger-related  charges.  See  note  2  to  the
     consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

(ii) Includes $196.4 million ($158.1 million  after-tax,  or $1.47 per basic and
     diluted  share)  of  restructuring,  asset  impairment  and  other  charges
     recorded during fourth quarter 1997. The charges  reflect:  a $91.3 million
     impairment  of  goodwill  associated  with KCSR's  acquisition  of MidSouth
     Corporation in 1993; $38.5 million of long-lived  assets held for disposal;
     $9.2 million of 




     impaired long-lived assets; approximately $27.1 million in reserves related
     to termination of a union  productivity fund and employee  separations;  a
     $12.7 million  impairment  of goodwill  associated  with the  Company's  
     investment in Berger;  and $17.6  million of other  reserves for leases, 
     contracts  and other reorganization costs. See Notes 1 and 3 to the 
     consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

(iii)Includes a one-time  after-tax  gain of $47.7  million  (or $0.42 per basic
     share, $0.41 per diluted share),  representing the Company's  proportionate
     share of the one-time gain  recognized by DST in connection with the merger
     of The  Continuum  Company,  Inc.,  formerly  a DST  unconsolidated  equity
     affiliate,  with Computer Sciences Corporation in a tax-free share exchange
     (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K).

(iv) Reflects  DST as an  unconsolidated  affiliate as of January 1, 1995 due to
     the DST public offering and associated  transactions  completed in November
     1995, which reduced the Company's ownership of DST to approximately 41% and
     resulted  in  deconsolidation  of  DST  from  the  Company's   consolidated
     financial  statements.  The public  offering  and  associated  transactions
     resulted  in a $144.6  million  after-tax  gain (or $1.14 per basic  share,
     $1.10 per diluted share) to the Company.

(v)  Reflects DST as a consolidated subsidiary. See (iv) above for discussion of
     DST public offering in 1995.

(vi) Financial information from which the ratio of earnings to fixed charges was
     computed  for the year  ended  December  31,  1998  includes  the  one-time
     non-cash  charge  resulting  from the DST and USCS merger  discussed in (i)
     above. If the ratio was computed to exclude this charge,  the 1998 ratio of
     earnings to fixed charges would have been 4.75.

(vii)Financial  information  from which the ratio of earnings  to fixed  charges
     was   computed  for  the  year  ended   December  31,  1997   includes  the
     restructuring,  asset impairment and other charges discussed in (ii) above.
     If the ratio was  computed  to  exclude  these  charges,  the 1997 ratio of
     earnings to fixed charges would have been 3.60.

(viii) Financial  information  from which the ratio of earnings to fixed charges
     was  computed  for the year  ended  December  31,  1995  reflects  DST as a
     majority owned  unconsolidated  subsidiary through October 31, 1995, and an
     unconsolidated   41%  owned  affiliate   thereafter,   in  accordance  with
     applicable U.S.  Securities and Exchange  Commission rules and regulations.
     If the ratio was  computed  to exclude the  one-time  pretax gain of $296.3
     million  associated  with the November 1995 public  offering and associated
     transactions,  the 1995 ratio of earnings to fixed  charges would have been
     3.04.



All years reflect the 3-for-1  common stock split to  shareholders  of record on
August 25, 1997, paid September 16, 1997.

Certain prior year  information has been restated to conform to the current year
presentation.  All years reflect the reclassification of certain  income/expense
items from "Revenues" and "Costs and Expenses" to a separate  "Other,  net" line
item in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The  information  set forth in response to Item 301 of Regulation S-K under Part
II Item 7,  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and
Results of Operations, of this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference in partial
response to this Item 6.







Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

OVERVIEW

The  discussion  set forth below,  as well as other  portions of this Form 10-K,
contains comments not based upon historical fact. Such forward-looking  comments
are based upon  information  currently  available to management and management's
perception  thereof as of the date of this Form 10-K. Readers can identify these
forward-looking  comments  by the use of such  verbs  as  expects,  anticipates,
believes or similar verbs or conjugations  of such verbs.  The actual results of
operations of Kansas City Southern  Industries,  Inc. ("KCSI" or the " Company")
could materially differ from those indicated in  forward-looking  comments.  The
differences  could be caused by a number of  factors or  combination  of factors
including, but not limited to, those factors identified in the Company's Current
Report on Form 8-K dated November 12, 1996 and its  Amendment,  Form 8-K/A dated
June 3,  1997,  which  have been filed  with the U.S.  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  (Files No. 1-4717) and are hereby  incorporated by reference herein.
Readers are strongly  encouraged to consider  these factors when  evaluating any
forward-looking  comments.  The  Company  will not  update  any  forward-looking
comments set forth in this Form 10-K.

The discussion  herein is intended to clarify and focus on the Company's results
of operations,  certain changes in its financial  position,  liquidity,  capital
structure and business  developments for the periods covered by the consolidated
financial  statements  included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  This discussion
should be read in conjunction with these consolidated financial statements,  the
related  notes  and  the  Report  of  Independent  Accountants  thereon,  and is
qualified by reference thereto.

KCSI, a Delaware corporation organized in 1962, is a diversified holding company
with principal  operations in rail  transportation and financial  services.  The
Company supplies its various subsidiaries with managerial, legal, tax, financial
and accounting services,  in addition to managing other "non-operating" and more
passive investments.

The Company's business  activities by industry segment and principal  subsidiary
companies are:

Transportation.     The     Transportation     segment     consists    of    all
Transportation-related subsidiaries and investments, including:

*    The  Kansas  City  Southern  Railway  Company   ("KCSR"),   a  wholly-owned
     subsidiary  of the  Company,  operating a Class I Common  Carrier  railroad
     system;
*    Gateway  Western  Railway  Company  ("Gateway  Western"),   a  wholly-owned
     subsidiary  of  KCS   Transportation   Company   ("KCSTC,"  a  wholly-owned
     subsidiary of the Company), operating a regional railroad system;
*    Southern Group,  Inc.  ("SGI"),  a wholly-owned  subsidiary of KCSR, owning
     100% of Carland,  Inc. and managing the loan portfolio for Southern Capital
     Corporation, LLC ("Southern Capital," a 50% owned joint venture);
*    Equity investments in Southern Capital,  Grupo  Transportacion  Ferroviaria
     Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. ("Grupo TFM" ), a 37% owned affiliate, Mexrail, Inc.
     ("Mexrail") a 49% owned affiliate  along with its wholly owned  subsidiary,
     The Texas Mexican  Railway  Company  ("Tex Mex"),  and Panama Canal Railway
     Company ("PCRC"), a 50% owned joint venture;
*    Various other consolidated subsidiaries;
*    Kansas City Southern Lines, Inc. ("KCSL"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
     Company, serving as a holding company for Transportation-related entities;





Financial Services.  The Financial Services segment consists of all subsidiaries
engaged in the  management of  investments  for mutual funds,  private and other
accounts, as well as any Financial Services-related investments. Included are:

*    Janus Capital Corporation ("Janus"), an 82% owned subsidiary, diluted;
*    Berger Associates, Inc. ("Berger"), a wholly-owned subsidiary;
*    Nelson Money Managers plc ("Nelson"), an 80% owned subsidiary
*    DST Systems,  Inc. ("DST"), an approximate 32% owned equity investment (see
     ownership interest discussion below);
*    FAM Holdings,  Inc.  ("FAM HC"), a  wholly-owned  subsidiary of the Company
     formed  for the  purpose  of  becoming  a  holding  company  for  Financial
     Services-related subsidiaries and affiliates.

Upon the  completion  of a public  offering of DST common  stock and  associated
transactions  in November 1995, the Company's  ownership of DST was reduced from
100% to  approximately  41%. As discussed  below, the fourth quarter 1998 merger
between a wholly-owned  subsidiary of DST and USCS International,  Inc. ("USCS")
reduced KCSI's ownership of DST to approximately  32% and resulted in a one-time
pretax non-cash charge of approximately $36.0 million.

All per share  information  included  in this Item 7 is  presented  on a diluted
basis, unless specifically identified otherwise.



RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

DST Merger.  On December 21, 1998,  DST and USCS announced the completion of the
merger of USCS with a wholly-owned DST subsidiary.  The merger, accounted for as
a pooling of interests by DST,  expands DST's  presence in the output  solutions
and customer  management  software and  services  industries.  USCS is a leading
provider of customer management software to the cable television and convergence
industries. Under the terms of the merger, USCS became a wholly-owned subsidiary
of DST. DST issued  approximately 13.8 million shares of its common stock in the
transaction.

The issuance of additional DST common shares reduced KCSI's  ownership  interest
from 41% to  approximately  32%.  Additionally,  the Company recorded a one-time
pretax non-cash charge of approximately  $36.0 million ($23.2 million after-tax,
or $0.21 per share),  reflecting the Company's  reduced ownership of DST and the
Company's  proportionate  share of DST and USCS  fourth  quarter  merger-related
costs. KCSI accounts for its investment in DST under the equity method.


Option to Purchase Mexican Government's  Ownership Interest in TFM, S.A. de
C.V.  ("TFM").  On January 28, 1999,  the  Company,  along with other direct and
indirect  owners of TFM,  entered into a preliminary  agreement with the Mexican
Government  ("Government").  As part of that agreement, an option was granted to
the Company,  Transportacion  Maritima Mexicana,  S.A. de C.V. ("TMM") and Grupo
Servia,  S.A.  de C.V.  ("Grupo  Servia")  to  purchase  all or a portion of the
Government's 20% ownership interest in TFM at a discount. The option to purchase
all or a portion of the  Government's  interest expires on November 30, 1999. If
the purchase of at least 35% of the  Government's  stock is not completed by May
31,  1999,  the entire  option will expire on that date.  If the option is fully
exercised,  the Company's  additional  cash investment is not expected to exceed
$88  million.  As part of this  agreement  and as a condition  to exercise  this
option,  the parties have agreed to settle the  outstanding  claims  against the
Government regarding a refund of Mexican Value Added Tax (VAT) payments. TFM has
also agreed to sell to the Government a small section of redundant  trackage for
inclusion in another railroad  concession.  In addition,  under the terms of the
agreement,  the Government  would be released from its capital call  obligations
(as described below in "Results of Operations") at the moment that the option is
exercised  in whole or in part.  Furthermore,  TFM,  TMM,  Grupo  Servia and the
Company  have  agreed  to sell,  in a public  offering,  a  direct  or  indirect
participation  in at least  the same  percentage  currently  represented  by the
shares exercised in this option, by October 31, 2003, at the latest,  subject to
market conditions. The 



option and the other  described  agreements are  conditioned on the parties
entering into a final written agreement and obtaining all necessary consents and
authorizations.

Planned  Separation of the Company Business Segments.  As previously  disclosed,
the Company announced its intention to separate the Transportation and Financial
Services  segments  through a proposed  dividend  of the stock of a new  holding
company for its Financial Services  businesses (the  "Separation").  On February
27, 1998, a filing was made with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") requesting
a favorable  tax ruling on the proposed  Separation.  On October 20,  1998,  the
Company announced that a favorable ruling on the initial  structure  proposed to
the IRS was not expected and,  accordingly,  KCSI withdrew its request for a tax
ruling.  As a result,  the  Separation  did not occur during 1998 as  previously
contemplated.  The  Company  resubmitted  a request  for a tax ruling in January
1999. Subject to receipt of a favorable ruling from the IRS and consideration of
other  relevant  factors,  the Separation is expected to occur before the end of
1999.

Additionally,  in  contemplation of the Separation,  the Company's  stockholders
approved a reverse stock split at a special  stockholders'  meeting held on July
15,  1998.  The  Company  will not  effect the  reverse  stock  split  until the
Separation is completed.


Houston Emergency Service Order. On October 31, 1997 the Surface  Transportation
Board ("STB") issued an emergency service order which took effect on November 5,
1997 and extended  through  August 2, 1998. On July 31, 1998,  the STB announced
that it would not extend the emergency service order. This decision provided for
a "45-day wind down" period until  September 17, 1998,  during which the Tex Mex
continued to provide service under the terms of the emergency  service order. As
a result of this emergency  service  order,  Tex Mex revenues  increased  during
fourth  quarter  1997 and  through the first  three  quarters of 1998.  However,
expenses   associated   with   accommodating   the   increase   in  traffic  and
congestion-related problems of the UP system offset this revenue increase.

As previously  disclosed,  the KCSR and Tex Mex,  along with the Texas  Railroad
Commission and several shipper advocate groups, filed the Houston Area Consensus
Plan  ("Consensus  Plan") with the STB during second quarter 1998. The Consensus
Plan sought to provide  the Tex Mex with  permanent  access to the  Houston/Gulf
Coast  markets and to expand  neutral  switching  to hundreds  of  shippers.  On
December 21, 1998,  the STB  announced its ruling  against the  Consensus  Plan,
denying the Tex Mex permanent access to the Houston area.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

In addition to the developments mentioned above,  consolidated operating results
from 1996 to 1998 were affected by the following significant developments.

Acquisition of Nelson.  On April 20, 1998, the Company completed its acquisition
of 80% of Nelson, an investment  advisor and manager based in the United Kingdom
("UK"). Nelson has six offices throughout the UK and offers planning based asset
management  services directly to private clients.  Nelson managed  approximately
$1.2 billion of assets as of December 31, 1998. The  acquisition,  accounted for
as a purchase,  was completed using a combination of cash, KCSI common stock and
notes  payable.  The total  purchase price was  approximately  $33 million.  The
purchase  price is in excess of the fair market  value of the net  tangible  and
identifiable intangible assets received and this excess was recorded as goodwill
to be amortized  over a period of 20 years.  Assuming the  transaction  had been
completed  January 1, 1998,  inclusion of Nelson's results on a pro forma basis,
as of and for the year ended December 31, 1998,  would not have been material to
the Company's consolidated results of operations.





Marketing  Alliance  with  Canadian  National  Railway  Company  ("CN")/Illinois
Central  Corporation  ("IC").  On April 16,  1998,  KCSR,  CN and IC announced a
15-year  marketing  alliance that offers shippers new  competitive  options in a
rail  freight  transportation  network  that links key  north-south  continental
freight  markets.  The marketing  alliance did not require approval from the STB
and was effective immediately.  This alliance connects points in Canada with the
major U.S.  Midwest markets of Detroit,  Chicago,  Kansas City and St. Louis, as
well as key Southern  markets of Memphis,  Dallas and  Houston.  It also provide
shippers with access to Mexico's rail system through Grupo TFM.

In addition to providing  access to key north-south  international  and domestic
U.S.  traffic  corridors,  the railways'  seek to increase  business in existing
markets,  primarily  automotive  and  intermodal,  but also in other key carload
markets,  including those for chemical and forest products.  Traffic  increases,
although not significant in 1998,  have already been evident and  Transportation
management expects this alliance to provide opportunities for revenue growth and
position  the railway as a key  provider of rail  service to the North  American
Free Trade Agreement ("NAFTA") corridor.

Under a separate access agreement, subject to STB approval of the proposed CN-IC
merger,  CN and KCSR plan  investments in  automotive,  intermodal and transload
facilities  at Memphis,  Dallas,  Kansas City and Chicago to  capitalize  on the
growth  potential  represented  by the  marketing  alliance.  Access to proposed
terminals  would  be  assured  for the  25-year  life  span  of the  facilities,
regardless  of any change in corporate  control.  Under the terms of this access
agreement,  KCSR would  extend its rail system in the Gulf area and, in the year
2000,  gain  access  to three  additional  chemical  customers  in the  Geismar,
Louisiana  industrial area, one of the largest chemical  production areas in the
world,  through a haulage  agreement.  Management expects this access to provide
additional  revenue  opportunities  for  the  Company.   Prior  to  this  access
agreement,  the Company received  preliminary STB approval for construction of a
nine-mile  rail line from  KCSR's main line into the  Geismar  industrial  area,
which  the  chemical  manufacturers  requested  be built to  provide  them  with
competitive  rail  service.  The Company will continue to hold the option of the
Geismar build-in provided that it is able to obtain the requisite approvals.


Voluntary  Coordination  Agreement  with the Norfolk  Southern  Railway  Company
("Norfolk  Southern").   The  Company  entered  into  a  Voluntary  Coordination
marketing  agreement  with the  Norfolk  Southern  that  allows  the  Company to
capitalize on the east-west  corridor between Meridian,  Mississippi and Dallas,
Texas through  incremental  traffic volume gained through  interchange  with the
Norfolk  Southern.  This  agreement  provides the Norfolk  Southern  run-through
service  with access to Dallas and Mexico  while  avoiding  the  congested  rail
gateways of Memphis, Tennessee and New Orleans, Louisiana. In addition, KCSR and
Norfolk  Southern have a new joint intermodal  operation at Port Arthur,  Texas,
which  provides  an  alternative  route for traffic  from the Houston  market by
utilizing KCSR's rail network.


Termination of the Kansas City Southern  Industries,  Inc. Employee Plan Funding
Trust ("EPFT" or "Trust").  Effective September 30, 1998, the Company terminated
the EPFT,  which was  established  as a grantor trust for the purpose of holding
shares of KCSI Series B Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred Stock")
for the benefit of various KCSI employee  benefit plans,  including the Employee
Stock  Ownership  Plan,  Stock  Option Plans and Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan
(collectively,  "Benefit  Plans").  The EPFT was  administered by an independent
bank trustee  ("Trustee") and included in the Company's  consolidated  financial
statements.

In 1993, KCSI  transferred one million shares of Series B Preferred Stock to the
EPFT for a purchase price of $200 million  (based on an independent  valuation),
which the Trust financed  through KCSI. The indebtedness of the EPFT to KCSI was
repayable  over 27  years  with  interest  at 6% per  annum,  with no  principal
payments  for the first three  years.  Principal  payments  from the EPFT to the
Company of $21.3 million since the date of inception  decreased the indebtedness
to $178.7  million,  plus accrued  interest,  on the date of  termination.  As a
result of these principal payments, 127,638 shares of Series B Preferred



Stock  were  released  from the  Trust's  suspense  account  and  available  for
distribution  to  the  Benefit  Plans.  None  of  these  shares,  however,  were
distributed prior to termination of the EPFT.

In accordance  with the agreement to terminate  the EPFT,  the Company  received
872,362 shares of Series B Preferred Stock in full repayment of the indebtedness
from the Trust. In addition,  the remaining 127,638 shares of Series B Preferred
Stock were converted by the Trustee into KCSI Common Stock, at the rate of 12 to
1,  resulting  in the  issuance to the EPFT of  1,531,656  shares of such Common
Stock.  This Common  Stock was then  transferred  by the Trustee to KCSI and the
Company  has set these  shares  aside for use in  connection  with the KCSI 1991
Stock Option and Performance Award Plan, as amended and restated  effective July
15, 1998. Following the foregoing transactions, the EPFT was terminated.

The  impact of the EPFT  termination  on the  Company's  consolidated  financial
statements  was a  reclassification  among the  components of the  stockholders'
equity accounts,  with no change in the  consolidated  assets and liabilities of
the Company.


Restructuring,  Asset  Impairment  and Other  Charges.  In  connection  with the
Company's  review  of its  accounts  for the year  ended  December  31,  1997 in
accordance with its established  accounting policies, as well as a change in the
Company's  methodology for evaluating the recoverability of goodwill during 1997
(as  set  forth  in Note 1 to the  consolidated  financial  statements),  $196.4
million of  restructuring,  asset  impairment  and other  charges were  recorded
during fourth quarter 1997. After  consideration  of related tax effects,  these
charges reduced consolidated earnings by $158.1 million, or $1.47 per share. The
charges included:

o    A  $91.3  million  impairment  of  goodwill  associated  with  KCSR's  1993
     acquisition  of  MidSouth  Corporation  ("MidSouth").  In  response  to the
     changing competitive and business environment in the rail industry, in 1997
     the  Company   revised  its  accounting   methodology  for  evaluating  the
     recoverability  of  intangibles  from a business unit approach to analyzing
     each of the  Company's  significant  investment  components.  Based on this
     analysis,  the  remaining  purchase  price in excess  of fair  value of the
     MidSouth assets acquired was not recoverable.
o    A $38.5 million charge  representing  long-lived  assets held for disposal.
     Certain branch lines on the MidSouth route and certain  non-operating  real
     estate were  designated for sale.  During 1998, one of the branch lines was
     sold for a pretax gain of approximately  $2.9 million.  Efforts are ongoing
     to procure bids on the other branch line and non-operating real estate.
o    Approximately  $27.1 million in reserves  related to termination of a union
     productivity fund and employee separations. The union productivity fund was
     established in connection with prior collective  bargaining  agreements and
     required  KCSR to pay  employees  when reduced  crew levels were used.  The
     termination  of this fund has resulted in a reduction of salaries and wages
     expense for the year ended December 31, 1998 of approximately $4.8 million.
     During 1998,  approximately  $23.1 million in cash  payments  reduced these
     reserves and approximately  $2.5 million of the reserves were reduced based
     primarily on changes in the  estimate of claims made  relating to the union
     productivity  fund.  Approximately  $1.5 million of accruals related to the
     union  productivity  fund and employee  separations  remain at December 31,
     1998.
o    A $12.7  million  impairment  of  goodwill  associated  with the  Company's
     investment  in  Berger.  In  connection  with the  Company's  review of the
     carrying value of its various assets,  management determined that a portion
     of the intangibles  recorded in connection with the Berger  investment were
     not recoverable,  primarily due to below-peer performance and growth of the
     core Berger funds.
o    A $9.2 million  impairment  of assets at Pabtex,  Inc. (a subsidiary of the
     Company)  as a result of  continued  operating  losses and a decline in its
     customer base.
o    Approximately  $17.6  million  of other  charges  and  reserves  related to
     leases,  contracts,  impaired investments and other  reorganization  costs.
     Based on the  Company's  review  of its  assets  and  liabilities,  certain
     charges were  recorded to reflect  recoverability  and/or  obligation as of
     December 31, 1997. During 1998, approximately $8.0 million in cash payments
     were made leaving approximately $5.0 million accrued at December 31, 1998.



Operating  Difficulties of the Union Pacific Railroad. As reported in the press,
the Union Pacific  Railroad ("UP")  experienced  difficulties  with its railroad
operations,  reportedly  linked  to  its  acquisition  of the  Southern  Pacific
Railroad  ("SP").  UP is one of KCSR's largest  interchange  partners.  The UP's
difficulties  resulted in overall traffic congestion of the U.S. railroad system
and impacted  KCSR's ability to  interchange  traffic with UP, both for domestic
and  international  traffic (i.e., to and from Mexico).  This system  congestion
resulted  in certain  equipment  shortages  due to KCSR's  rolling  stock  being
retained within the UP system for unusually  extended periods of time, for which
UP remits car hire amounts.  During the fourth  quarter of 1997,  KCSR agreed to
accept certain UP trains in diverted traffic to assist in the easing of the UP's
system congestion, resulting in revenues of approximately $3.9 million.


Grupo TFM. As disclosed  previously,  Grupo TFM, a joint  venture of the Company
and TMM,  was awarded the right to purchase  80% of the common  stock of TFM for
approximately  11.072 billion Mexican pesos (approximately $1.4 billion based on
the U.S.  dollar/Mexican  peso exchange rate on December 5, 1996). TFM holds the
concession to operate over Mexico's  Northeast Rail Lines for 50 years, with the
option of a 50 year extension (subject to certain conditions).

The remaining 20% of TFM was retained by the Government, which has the option of
selling its 20% interest through a public  offering,  or selling it to Grupo TFM
after  October  31,  2003 at the  initial  share  price  paid by Grupo  TFM plus
interest  computed at the Mexican  Base Rate (the  Unidad de  Inversiones  (UDI)
published by Banco de Mexico). In the event that Grupo TFM does not purchase the
Government's  20%  interest in TFM, the  Government  may require TMM and KCSI to
purchase the  Government's  holdings in proportion to each partner's  respective
ownership interest in Grupo TFM (without regard to the Government's  interest in
Grupo TFM - see below).

On January 31, 1997, Grupo TFM paid the first  installment of the purchase price
(approximately $565 million based on the U.S. dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate)
to the Government,  representing  approximately  40% of the purchase price. This
initial  installment  of the TFM purchase  price was funded by Grupo TFM through
capital  contributions  from  TMM  and  the  Company.  The  Company  contributed
approximately $298 million to Grupo TFM, of which approximately $277 million was
used by  Grupo  TFM as part of the  initial  installment  payment.  The  Company
financed this contribution using borrowings under existing lines of credit.

On June 23,  1997,  Grupo TFM  completed  the purchase of 80% of TFM through the
payment of the remaining $835 million to the Government. This payment was funded
by Grupo TFM using a significant  portion of the funds obtained from: (i) senior
secured  term credit  facilities  ($325  million);  (ii) senior notes and senior
discount  debentures  ($400  million);  (iii) proceeds from the sale of 24.6% of
Grupo  TFM to the  Government  (approximately  $199  million  based  on the U.S.
dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate on June 23, 1997); and (iv) additional capital
contributions  from TMM and the Company  (approximately  $1.4  million from each
partner).  Additionally,  Grupo TFM entered into a $150 million revolving credit
facility for general  working capital  purposes.  The  Government's  interest in
Grupo  TFM is in the form of  limited  voting  right  shares,  and the  purchase
agreement  includes a call option for TMM and the Company,  which is exercisable
at the original  amount (in U.S.  dollars) paid by the Government  plus interest
based on one-year U.S. Treasury securities.

In  February  and March 1997,  the Company  entered  into two  separate  forward
contracts  - $98 million in  February  1997 and $100  million in March 1997 - to
purchase  Mexican  pesos in order to hedge  against a portion  of the  Company's
exposure  to  fluctuations  in the value of the  Mexican  peso  versus  the U.S.
dollar.  In April  1997,  the  Company  realized a $3.8  million  pretax gain in
connection with these contracts.  This gain was deferred, and has been accounted
for as a component of the  Company's  investment in Grupo TFM.  These  contracts
were intended to hedge only a portion of the Company's  exposure  related to the
final  installment  of the  purchase  price  and not any other  transactions  or
balances.



Concurrent  with the  financing  transactions,  Grupo TFM,  TMM and the  Company
entered into a Capital Contribution  Agreement  ("Contribution  Agreement") with
TFM,  which  includes a possible  capital  call of $150 million from TMM and the
Company if certain performance  benchmarks,  outlined in the agreement,  are not
met.  The Company  would be  responsible  for  approximately  $74 million of the
capital  call.  The term of the  Contribution  Agreement  is three  years.  In a
related agreement between Grupo TFM, TFM and the Government,  among others,  the
Government  agreed to contribute up to $37.5 million of equity  capital to Grupo
TFM if TMM and the Company were  required to  contribute  under the capital call
provisions of the Contribution  Agreement prior to July 16, 1998. As of July 16,
1998, no additional  contributions  from the Company were requested or made and,
therefore,  the Government did not contribute additional equity capital to Grupo
TFM. The Government also committed that if it had not made any  contributions by
July  16,  1998,  it  would,  up to  July  31,  1999,  make  additional  capital
contributions  to Grupo TFM (of up to an aggregate amount of $37.5 million) on a
proportionate  basis  with TMM and the  Company  if  capital  contributions  are
required.  Any capital  contributions  to Grupo TFM from the Government would be
used to  reduce  the  contribution  amounts  required  to be paid by TMM and the
Company  pursuant to the  Contribution  Agreement.  As of  December  31, 1998 no
additional contributions from the Company have been requested or made.

At December 31, 1998,  the Company's  investment in Grupo TFM was  approximately
$285.1 million.  The Company's  interest in Grupo TFM is approximately 37% (with
TMM and a TMM affiliate  owning the remaining  38.4%).  The Company accounts for
its investment in Grupo TFM under the equity method.

See  "Recent  Developments"  above for  discussion  of the  Company's  option to
purchase a portion of the Government's interest in TFM.


I&M Rail Link.  During 1997,  KCSR entered into a marketing  agreement  with I&M
Rail Link,  LLC,  which  provides KCSR with access to customers  (primarily  new
grain origins) in the upper Midwest,  as well as Chicago and  Minneapolis.  This
agreement is similar to a haulage rights agreement, but without the restrictions
on traffic.  The Company believes this agreement  provides KCSR with the ability
to increase its traffic,  particularly  with respect to agricultural and mineral
products.


Berger Ownership Interest.  As a result of certain transactions during 1997, the
Company  increased  its  ownership in Berger to 100% from  approximately  80% at
December 31, 1996. In January and December 1997, Berger purchased, for treasury,
the common stock of minority  shareholders.  Also in December  1997, the Company
acquired  additional  Berger  shares  from a minority  shareholder  through  the
issuance of KCSI common stock.  In connection  with these  transactions,  Berger
granted  options to acquire  shares of Berger stock to certain of its employees.
At  December  31,  1998,  the  Company's  ownership  would have been  diluted to
approximately  91% if all of the outstanding  options had been exercised.  These
transactions resulted in approximately $17.8 million of goodwill, which is being
amortized over 15 years.  However,  see discussion of impairment of a portion of
this goodwill in "Restructuring, Asset Impairment and Other Charges" above.

The Company's 1994 acquisition of a controlling interest in Berger was completed
under a Stock  Purchase  Agreement  ("Agreement")  covering a  five-year  period
ending in October 1999.  Pursuant to the Agreement,  the Company may be required
to make  additional  purchase  price  payments (up to $36.6  million) based upon
Berger attaining certain incremental levels of assets under management up to $10
billion by October 1999. The Company made no payments under the Agreement during
1998. In 1997 and 1996, the Company made  additional  payments of $3.1 and $23.9
million,  respectively,  resulting in  adjustments  to the purchase  price.  The
goodwill amounts are amortized over 15 years.


Stock Split and 20% Increase in Quarterly  Common  Stock  Dividend.  On July 29,
1997, the Company's Board of Directors  ("Board")  authorized a 3-for-1 split in
the Company's  common stock effected in the form of a stock dividend.  The Board
also  voted  to  increase  the  quarterly   dividend  20% to



$0.04 per share (post-split).  Both dividends were paid on September 16, 1997 to
stockholders of record as of August 25, 1997. Amounts reported in this Form 10-K
reflect this stock split.


Common Stock  Repurchases.  The  Company's  Board has  authorized  management to
repurchase a total of 33 million  shares of KCSI common stock under two programs
- - the 1995  program for 24 million  shares and the 1996 program for nine million
shares.  During 1998,  there were no repurchases  under these  programs.  During
1997, the Company purchased  approximately 2.9 million shares (post-split) at an
aggregate  cost of  approximately  $50  million.  With these  transactions,  the
Company has repurchased  approximately 27.6 million shares of its common shares,
completing  the 1995 program and part of the 1996 program.  In  connection  with
these programs,  the Company  entered into a forward stock purchase  contract in
1995 for the  repurchase  of  shares,  which  was  completed  during  1997.  See
discussion in "Financial Instruments and Purchase Commitments" below.


Gateway Western. KCSTC acquired beneficial ownership of the outstanding stock of
Gateway  Western in December  1996.  The stock  acquired by KCSTC was held in an
independent voting trust until the Company received approval from the STB on the
acquisition  effective May 5, 1997. The  consideration  paid for Gateway Western
(including  various  acquisition costs and liabilities) was approximately  $12.2
million,  which  exceeded  the  fair  value  of the  underlying  net  assets  by
approximately $12.1 million.  The resulting intangible is being amortized over a
period of 40 years.

Because the Gateway  Western  stock was held in trust during first quarter 1997,
the  Company  accounted  for  Gateway  Western  under  the  equity  method  as a
wholly-owned  unconsolidated  subsidiary.  Upon STB approval of the acquisition,
the  Company  consolidated  Gateway  Western  in  the  Transportation   segment.
Additionally, the Company restated first quarter 1997 to include Gateway Western
as a  consolidated  subsidiary as of January 1, 1997,  and results of operations
for the year ended December 31, 1997 reflect this restatement.

Under a prior  agreement with The Atchison,  Topeka & Santa Fe Railway  Company,
Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation has the option of purchasing the assets
of Gateway Western (based on a fixed formula in the agreement)  through the year
2004.


Southern  Capital Joint  Venture.  In October 1996, the Company and GATX Capital
Corporation ("GATX") completed the formation and financing of a joint venture to
perform certain leasing and financing activities. The venture, Southern Capital,
was  formed  through a GATX  contribution  of $25  million in cash and a Company
contribution (through KCSR and Carland) of $25 million in net assets, comprising
a  negotiated  fair  value  of  locomotives  and  rolling  stock  and  long-term
indebtedness  owed to KCSI and its subsidiaries.  In an associated  transaction,
Southern Leasing Corporation (an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
prior to dissolution in October 1996) sold to Southern Capital approximately $75
million of loan portfolio assets and rail equipment.

As a result of these  transactions and subsequent  repayment by Southern Capital
of indebtedness  owed to KCSI and its  subsidiaries,  the Company  received cash
which exceeded the net book value of its assets by approximately  $44.1 million.
Concurrent with the formation of the joint venture,  KCSR entered into operating
leases with Southern Capital for the majority of the rail equipment  acquired by
or contributed  to Southern  Capital.  Accordingly,  this excess fair value over
book value is being recognized over the terms of the leases  (approximately $4.4
million in 1998 and $4.9 million in 1997).

The cash received by the Company was used to reduce outstanding  indebtedness by
approximately  $217 million,  after  consideration  of applicable  income taxes,
through repayments on various lines of credit and subsidiary  indebtedness.  The
Company reports its 50% ownership  interest in Southern Capital under the equity
method of accounting.



1998 and 1997 net income was  positively  impacted  as a result of the  Southern
Capital transaction.  Reduced  depreciation and interest expense,  together with
equity  earnings  from  Southern  Capital,  has more than offset the increase in
fixed lease expense related to the transaction.

Under a prior agreement,  GATX had an option to notify the Company of its intent
to cause  disposal  of the loan  portfolio  assets  of  Southern  Capital.  GATX
exercised its option with regard to this  agreement and the Company and GATX are
jointly reviewing  options for disposition of these loan portfolio  assets.  The
portfolio of rail assets would remain with Southern Capital. The disposal of the
loan portfolio assets is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's
results of operations, financial position or cash flows.


DST's Investment in Continuum.  On August 1, 1996, The Continuum  Company,  Inc.
("Continuum"),  formerly an approximate 23% owned DST equity  affiliate,  merged
with  Computer  Sciences  Corporation  ("CSC," a publicly  traded  company) in a
tax-free share  exchange.  In exchange for its ownership  interest in Continuum,
DST received  CSC common  stock,  which DST  accounts for as available  for sale
securities  as defined in Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 115
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" ("SFAS 115").

As  a  result  of  the  transaction,   the  Company's  1996  earnings   included
approximately $47.7 million  (after-tax),  or $0.41 per share,  representing the
Company's  proportionate  share  of  the  one-time  gain  recognized  by  DST in
connection with the merger.  Continuum  ceased to be an equity affiliate of DST,
thereby  eliminating  any  future  Continuum  equity  earnings  or  losses.  DST
recognized  equity  losses in Continuum of $4.9 million for the first six months
of 1996.


Railroad  Industry Trends and Competition.  During the period from 1996 to 1998,
the  railroad  industry  has  continued  to  experience  ongoing  consolidation.
Following the 1995 mergers involving the Burlington Northern,  Inc. and Santa Fe
Pacific  Corporation  ("BN/SF")  and the UP and the  Chicago  and North  Western
Transportation Company ("UP/CNW"),  in 1996, the UP merged with SP ("UP/SP"). In
1997, CSX Corporation  ("CSX") and Norfolk  Southern  completed  negotiations to
purchase  parts  of  Conrail,  Inc.  ("Conrail").  The  STB  has  approved  this
transaction.  Finally,  in February  1998,  the CN  announced  its  intention to
acquire the IC, which is still awaiting STB approval.

The Company believes that KCSR revenues were negatively  affected  (primarily in
1996 and early 1997) by the UP/SP and BN/SF mergers as a result of the increased
competition  which led to diversions  of rail traffic away from KCSR lines.  The
ongoing impact to KCSR of these mergers,  as well as the merger of the CN/IC and
the CSX/Norfolk Southern/Conrail transaction is uncertain.  Management believes,
however,  that because of its  investments and strategic  alliances,  it is well
positioned to attract additional rail traffic through its "NAFTA Railway."

In  addition to  competition  within the  railroad  industry,  highway  carriers
compete with KCSR  throughout  its operating  area.  Since  deregulation  of the
railroad  industry,  competition has resulted in extensive  downward pressure on
freight rates. Truck carriers have eroded the railroad industry's share of total
transportation revenues. However, rail carriers,  including KCSR, have placed an
emphasis on competing in the intermodal marketplace, working together to provide
end-to-end transportation of products.

Mississippi and Missouri River barge traffic,  among others,  also competes with
KCSR  in the  transportation  of bulk  commodities  such as  grains,  steel  and
petroleum products.

In response to the changing  competitive  and business  environment  in the rail
industry, in 1997 the Company revised its accounting  methodology for evaluating
the  recoverability  of  intangibles  from a business unit approach to analyzing
each of the Company's significant investment components. Based on this analysis,
$91.3  million of the  remaining  purchase  price in excess of fair value of the
MidSouth  assets  acquired was not  recoverable.  This charge was recorded as of
December 31, 1997.



See "Union Labor  Negotiations"  below for a  discussion  of the impact of labor
issues and regulations on competition in the transportation industry.


Berger Joint Venture. During 1996, Berger entered into a joint venture agreement
with Bank of Ireland Asset  Management  (U.S.) Limited,  a subsidiary of Bank of
Ireland,  to develop  and  market a series of  international  and global  mutual
funds. The new venture,  named BBOI Worldwide LLC ("BBOI"),  is headquartered in
Denver,  Colorado.  Regulatory  approvals were received in October 1996, and the
first no-load  mutual fund product - the  Berger/BIAM  International  Fund - was
introduced in fourth quarter 1996. Currently, BBOI manages five funds and assets
under  management  for these funds  totaled  $522  million at December  31, 1998
compared  with $161 million at December 31,  1997.  Berger  accounts for its 50%
investment in BBOI under the equity method.


Union Labor Negotiations. Approximately 84% of KCSR employees and 88% of Gateway
Western employees are covered under various collective bargaining agreements.

In 1996,  national labor  contracts  governing the KCSR were negotiated with all
major  railroad  unions,   including  the  United   Transportation   Union,  the
Brotherhood  of  Locomotive   Engineers,   the   Transportation   Communications
International  Union,  the Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employees,  and the
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. The provisions of
the various  labor  agreements,  which extend to December  31,  1999,  generally
include  periodic  general wage  increases,  lump-sum  payments to workers,  and
greater work rule flexibility,  among other provisions. These agreements did not
have a material  effect on the  Company's  consolidated  results of  operations,
financial  position or cash  flows.  As a result of the  operating  efficiencies
gained by the  existing  agreements,  management  believes the Company is better
positioned to compete  effectively  with  alternative  forms of  transportation.
Railroads continue,  however, to be restricted by certain remaining  restrictive
work rules and are thus  prevented  from  achieving  optimum  productivity  with
existing technology and systems. Currently,  informal discussions are being held
with certain national labor unions with regard to the next labor contract. These
discussions  are  preliminary  and  formal  negotiations  will not  begin  until
November  1999.  Management  does not expect that this process or the  resulting
labor  agreements  will have a material  impact on its  consolidated  results of
operations, financial condition or cash flows.

Labor  agreements  related to former  MidSouth  employees  covered by collective
bargaining agreements reopened for negotiations in 1996. These agreements entail
eighteen separate groups of employees and are not included in the national labor
contracts.  KCSR  management  is  currently in the process of meeting with these
unions  representing  its employees.  While these  discussions are ongoing,  the
Company does not anticipate that this process or the resulting labor  agreements
will have a material impact on its consolidated results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows.

The  majority  of  employees  of the Gateway  Western are covered by  collective
bargaining  agreements which extend through December 1999.  Unions  representing
machinists and electrical workers,  however,  are operating under 1994 contracts
and are currently in negotiations to extend these contracts. Negotiations on the
agreements  which  extend  through  December  1999 are expected to begin in late
1999. The Company does not anticipate  that this process or the resulting  labor
agreements  will  have  a  material  impact  on  its  consolidated   results  of
operations, financial condition or cash flows.

KCSR,  Gateway and other railroads  continue to be affected by labor regulations
which are more  burdensome  than those governing  non-rail  industries,  such as
trucking  competitors.  The  Railroad  Retirement  Act  requires  up to a 23.75%
contribution by railroad  employers on eligible wages, while the Social Security
and Medicare  Acts only require a 7.65%  employer  contribution  on similar wage
bases. Other programs,  such as The Federal Employees Liability Act (FELA), when
compared to worker's  compensation  laws,  vividly  illustrate  the  competitive
disadvantage placed upon the rail industry by federal labor regulations.  



During  1998,  the  Brotherhood  of  Locomotive  Engineers  and the  United
Transportation  Union,  the two unions  representing a majority of the Company's
employees,  have  agreed to merge.  Currently,  details of the merged  union are
being discussed and determined by the involved parties.  The merger of these two
unions is not  expected to have a material  impact on the  Company's  results of
operations, financial position or cash flows.


Safety and Quality Programs.  During 1997, KCSR continued its  implementation of
important safety and quality programs, including an extensive,  cross-functional
"Pro-Formance"  initiative focusing on continuous improvements in all aspects of
the organization. Because of the continued focus on safety and quality programs,
KCSR has experienced a decline in accident  related  statistics in recent years;
however  reportable  injuries  increased  slightly  during 1998.  Although total
derailments declined 18% from the period 1996-1998,  two significant derailments
experienced  during the latter  half of 1998 led to an  increase  in  derailment
costs during 1998. One of KCSR management's  primary objectives is to operate in
the safest  environment  possible  and efforts are ongoing to improve its safety
experience.  "Safety" and  "Quality"  programs  comprise two  important  ongoing
elements of KCSR  management's  goal of reducing  employee  injuries and related
benefits  are  expected to be  recurring  in nature and  realizable  over future
years.  Program  expenses  are not  anticipated  to have a  material  impact  on
operating results in future years.



INDUSTRY SEGMENT RESULTS 


(i)  Includes  a  one-time  non-cash  charge  of $36.0  million  ($23.2  million
     after-tax)  resulting from the merger of a  wholly-owned  subsidiary of DST
     with  USCS.  The  merger  was  accounted  for by DST under the  pooling  of
     interests  method.  The charge reflects the Company's  reduced ownership of
     DST  (from  41%  to  approximately   32%),   together  with  the  Company's
     proportionate share of DST and USCS fourth quarter merger-related  charges.
     See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.

(ii) Includes  $196.4 million  ($158.1  million  after-tax,  comprised of $141.9
     million  -Transportation  segment  and  $16.2  million  Financial  Services
     segment) of  restructuring,  asset  impairment  and other charges  recorded
     during fourth  quarter  1997.  The charges  reflect  impairment of goodwill
     associated  with KCSR's 1993  acquisition of the MidSouth and the Company's
     investment  in  Berger,  long-lived  assets  held  for  disposal,  impaired
     long-lived assets,  reserves related to termination of a union productivity
     fund and employee separations, and other reserves for leases, contracts and
     reorganization  costs.  See  Notes  1 and 3 to the  consolidated  financial
     statements in this Form 10-K. Additionally,  Transportation results for the
     year ended 1997 include revenues and expenses from Gateway Western.



(iii)Includes  a  one-time  after-tax  gain of $47.7  million  representing  the
     Company's  proportionate  share of the one-time  gain  recognized by DST in
     connection  with the  merger  of  Continuum  with  CSC  (see  Note 2 to the
     consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K).

Consolidated net income for 1998 increased to $190.2 million from a consolidated
loss of $14.1 million in 1997.  Exclusive of the 1998 and 1997 one-time charges,
consolidated  net income  grew $69.4  million,  or 48%, to $213.4  million  from
$144.0  million  in  1997,   reflecting   earnings   improvements  in  both  the
Transportation and Financial Services  segments.  Consolidated  revenues for the
year ended  December  31,  1998 were $226  million  (21%)  higher than 1997 as a
result of  increases  in both  segments.  Operating  income,  exclusive  of 1997
restructuring, asset impairment and other charges, increased $91.6 million (30%)
year to  year,  driven  by  higher  revenues  as well as  improved  consolidated
operating margins.

Consolidated  1997  revenues  increased  $211.0  million  over 1996,  reflecting
improvements in both the  Transportation and Financial Services segments year to
year, as well as the  inclusion of Gateway  Western  revenues.  While 1997 total
operating income  decreased from 1996 by 48%,  operating income exclusive of the
restructuring, asset impairment and other charges increased nearly $100 million,
indicative  of a  higher  rate of  revenue  growth  compared  to  expenses.  The
consolidated loss of $14.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1997 includes
$196.4 million ($158.1 million after-tax) in restructuring, asset impairment and
other  charges,  as  previously  discussed.  Consolidated  net  income of $150.9
million  for the year ended  1996  includes  a  one-time  gain of $47.7  million
resulting   from  the  Continuum   transaction.   Exclusive  of  these  amounts,
consolidated  net income in 1997 of $144.0  million was $40.8  million,  or 40%,
higher than 1996. This increase reflects  improvement in ongoing  operations for
both the  Transportation  and the Financial  Services  segments,  primarily from
higher revenues and improved operating margins.

A discussion of each business segment's results of operations follows.


TRANSPORTATION (KCSL)





Ongoing domestic  Transportation  segment earnings  increased $24.9 million,  or
90.9%,  to $52.3  million for the year ended  December 31, 1998.  This  increase
resulted from higher revenues, which grew $40.3 million, or 7.0% (primarily from
a 6.5% increase in revenues at KCSR) and lower  operating  costs as a percentage
of revenue.  The Transportation  segment's  operating income,  exclusive of 1997
restructuring,  asset  impairment and other charges,  increased  33.5% to $113.9
million  from  $85.3  million in 1997.  This  increase  was  driven by  improved
operating  margins as a result of a slower rate of growth in operating  expenses
compared to  revenues.  Exclusive  of  depreciation  and  amortization  and 1997
restructuring,  asset impairment and other charges, the Transportation segment's
operating  costs as a  percentage  of  revenues  decreased  by more than 2% as a
result of continuing  cost  containment  efforts.  The  termination of the union
productivity  fund resulted in a savings of  approximately  $4.8 million  during
1998 and these savings are expected to continue in the future.  Depreciation and
amortization  expenses  declined  $5.1  million,  or  8.3%,  chiefly  due to the
reduction of amortization and depreciation expense of approximately $5.6 million
arising from the  impairment of goodwill and certain  branch lines held for sale
recorded during December 1997,  partially offset by increased  depreciation from
property additions. See "Results of Operations" above for further discussion.

Ongoing domestic  Transportation  segment earnings of $27.4 million for the year
ended  December 31, 1997 were  compared to $16.3  million for the prior year, an
increase of $11.1  million or 68%.  This  increase was driven by revenue  growth
from $517.7 million to $573.2  million,  chiefly due to higher KCSR revenues and
the addition of the Gateway  Western,  partially  offset by the loss of revenues
from Southern Leasing Corporation,  which was dissolved in the fourth quarter of
1996. In addition, cost containment initiatives by management in the second half
of 1997 helped to increase operating margins and contributed to higher earnings.
Transportation  expenses,  exclusive of the restructuring,  asset impairment and
other  charges,  increased  $42.3  million,  or 9.5% to $487.9  million for 1997
compared  with  $445.6  million  for 1996.  The  increase  was  attributable  to
operating lease expenses resulting from the Southern Capital transaction and the
inclusion of Gateway Western expenses in 1997 (variable  operating expenses were
essentially  unchanged year to year).  Depreciation and amortization expenses in
1997 for the Transportation  segment decreased $1.1 million (1.7%) from 1996 due
to the transfer of assets to Southern Capital during the fourth quarter of 1996,
offset by the inclusion of Gateway Western.


Interest Expense and Other, net
Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 1998 increased $6.3 million, or
11.8%,  to $59.6 million as a result of the inclusion of a full year's  interest
associated  with the debt  related  to the  Company's  investment  in Grupo TFM,
partially  offset by a decrease in average debt  balances due to net  repayments
and a slight  decrease  in  interest  rates  relating  to the  lines of  credit.
Additionally  during 1997,  interest of $7.4 million was  capitalized as part of
the investment in Grupo TFM until operations  commenced (June 23, 1997).  Other,
net  increased  $8.7  million to $13.7  million for the year ended  December 31,
1998. Included in this increase is a one-time gain of $2.9 million (pretax) from
the sale of a branch line and $2.8  million of interest  related to a tax refund
in 1998.  Other  non-operating  real estate sales  comprised the majority of the
remaining increase.

The 1% increase in 1997  Transportation  interest  expense (to $53.3 million) is
due to interest  associated  with the  investment  in Grupo TFM,  together  with
interest on Gateway Western indebtedness,  offset by debt repayments made at the
end of 1996  associated  with  the  Southern  Capital  transaction.  Capitalized
interest related to the Company's Grupo TFM investment  totaled $7.4 million for
the year ended December 31, 1997, which ceased upon gaining  operational control
of TFM on June 23, 1997.  Other,  net decreased $2.9 million,  or 36.7%, to $5.0
million for 1997 from $7.9 million in 1996,  primarily  attributable to the 1996
one-time gain of approximately  $2.9 million recorded by KCSR in connection with
the sale of real estate.


Income Taxes
Income taxes  increased  $45.7 million from a 1997 benefit of $18.6 million to a
$27.1 million  expense for the year ended  December 31, 1998.  This  fluctuation
resulted  primarily  because of the  restructuring,  asset  



impairment and other charges in 1997.  Exclusive of these  charges,  income
tax expense from year to year increased by $9.6 million, or 54.8%, primarily due
to higher operating income in 1998.

Income taxes  decreased  $31.0  million from $12.4 million of expense in 1996 to
$18.6  million  of  benefit  for 1997,  primarily  as a result of the  impact of
restructuring, asset impairment and other charges on pretax income. Exclusive of
these charges,  income tax expense for 1997 would have been approximately  $17.5
million.


KCSL Subsidiaries

Following   is  a  detailed   discussion   of  the  primary   subsidiaries   and
unconsolidated affiliates comprising the Transportation segment. Results of less
significant subsidiaries have been omitted.


The Kansas City Southern Railway Company
KCSR  operates in a nine state region,  including  Missouri,  Kansas,  Arkansas,
Oklahoma,  Mississippi,  Alabama, Tennessee,  Louisiana, and Texas. KCSR has the
shortest  rail route  between  Kansas  City and the Gulf of Mexico,  serving the
ports of Beaumont and Port Arthur, Texas; and New Orleans,  Baton Rouge, Reserve
and West Lake Charles, Louisiana. Through haulage rights, KCSR has access to the
states of  Nebraska  and Iowa and  serves the ports of  Houston  and  Galveston,
Texas.  Kansas City,  Missouri,  as the second largest rail center in the United
States,  represents  an important  interchange  gateway for KCSR.  KCSR also has
interchange  gateways  in New  Orleans  and  Shreveport,  Louisiana;  Dallas and
Beaumont, Texas; and Jackson and Meridian, Mississippi.

Major  commodities  moved  by  KCSR  include  coal,  grain  and  farm  products,
petroleum,  chemicals,  paper and forest products,  intermodal, as well as other
general  commodities.  Management  believes that KCSR, in  conjunction  with the
Norfolk  Southern,  operates  the most  direct  rail  route,  referred to as the
"Meridian  Speedway," linking the Atlanta and Dallas gateways for traffic moving
between  the  rapidly-growing  southeast  and  southwest  regions  of the United
States.  The "Meridian  Speedway" also provides  eastern shippers and other U.S.
and Canadian  railroads with an efficient  connection to the Mexican markets and
has  allowed  KCSR  to  be  more  competitive  in  transcontinental   intermodal
transportation.

For the year ended  December  31, 1998,  KCSR's  contribution  to the  Company's
consolidated  earnings  increased  $25.6 million to $53.0  million,  compared to
$27.4 million  (exclusive of restructuring,  asset impairment and other charges)
in  1997.  This  increase  was  primarily  due to a $33.8  million  increase  in
revenues,  partially  offset by a $4.0  million  increase in variable  and fixed
operating costs.

Exclusive of the  restructuring,  asset impairment and other charges recorded in
fourth  quarter  1997,   KCSR   contributed   $27.4  million  to  the  Company's
consolidated  earnings  compared  to $17.1  million in 1996.  This  increase  is
primarily  due to a $25.3 million  increase in KCSR revenues  offset by a lesser
increase in variable and fixed operating costs.






Revenues



KCSR revenues for 1998 were $551.6 million,  a $33.8 million  increase over 1997
as a result of higher revenues in all major commodity groups. 1998 coal revenues
increased $15.0 million,  or 14.7%,  compared to 1997 while intermodal  revenues
were  7.3%  higher.  General  commodities,  led  by  an  increase  of  11.4%  in
agricultural and mineral products  revenues,  improved $17.0 million,  or nearly
5%. A portion  of  increased  revenues  relate to  traffic  with  Mexico,  which
increased approximately 118% during 1998, resulting in an additional $10 million
of  revenue.   Also,  increased  carloads  resulting  from  the  CN/IC  alliance
contributed to the higher revenues.

1997 KCSR revenues were $25.3 million,  or 5.1%,  higher than 1996 due to a 5.8%
increase in general  commodities  and a 7.2%  increase in  intermodal  revenues.
Agricultural and mineral products led general  commodities with a 13.3% increase
over 1996 comprised primarily of domestic and export grain and food products.

The following is a discussion of KCSR's major commodity groups.

Coal
Coal  continues  to be the  largest  single  commodity  handled  by KCSR,  which
delivers  coal to  seven  electric  generating  plants,  located  at  Amsterdam,
Missouri;  Flint Creek, Arkansas;  Welsh, Texas;  Mossville,  Louisiana;  Kansas
City,  Missouri;  Pittsburg,  Kansas;  and Hugo,  Oklahoma.  Two coal customers,
Southwestern Electric Power Company ("SWEPCO") and Entergy Gulf States (formerly
Gulf States Utility Company),  comprised approximately 81%, 82% and 83% of total
coal revenues generated by KCSR in 1998, 1997and 1996,  respectively.  KCSR also
delivers lignite to an electric generating plant at Monticello, Texas ("TUMCO").
KCSR's  contract with SWEPCO,  its largest  customer,  extends  through the year
2006. During 1998, coal revenues  increased  notably over prior years;  however,
historically coal revenues have a tendency to equalize on an annual basis.

Coal movements generated $117.6 million of revenue during 1998, a 14.7% increase
over 1997. This 1998 increase  resulted from higher unit coal traffic  (increase
in  carloads  of  nearly  16%)  arising  from  several  factors.   1)  In  1998,
unseasonably  warm weather  resulted in a higher  demand for  electric  power in
certain regions served by the KCSR and several utility customers  requested more
coal to  handle  this  increased  demand.  Additionally,  in order to  replenish
inventory levels depleted from this excess demand,  several locations  increased
their  coal  shipments.  2) During  1997,  unit coal  revenues  were  negatively




affected by unplanned  outages  (primarily  during first and second quarters) at
several  utilities  served by KCSR,  and first quarter  weather  problems  which
affected  carriers and the mines originating the coal. During 1998, the level of
unplanned  outages  declined and, thus,  more unit coal trains were delivered to
customers.  Additionally,  although KCSR  experienced  certain  weather  related
slow-downs due to flooding during fourth quarter 1998, it did not  significantly
impact coal  revenues.  3) 1998  results  reflect a full year of revenues  for a
utility  customer not served by KCSR until after the first quarter of 1997. Coal
accounted  for 22.4% of carload  revenues  during 1998  compared  with 20.9% for
1997.

Coal revenues  during 1997 were $102.6 million,  virtually  unchanged from 1996.
Coal traffic  comprised 20.9% of carload  revenues and 21.6% of carloads in 1997
compared  with  21.9% and 22.2%,  respectively,  in 1996  indicating  the growth
realized in other commodities.

Chemicals and Petroleum
Chemical and petroleum products,  serviced via tank and hopper cars primarily to
markets in the  Southeast  and  Northeast  through  interchange  with other rail
carriers,  as a combined group represent the largest  commodity to KCSR in terms
of revenue.  Management expects that revenues in this commodity group could grow
in future years as a result of KCSR's marketing  agreement with the CN/IC, which
is  expected  to provide  KCSR access to the  manufacturing  facilities  of BASF
Corporation, Shell Chemical Company and Borden Chemical and Plastics in Geismar,
Louisiana, a large industrial corridor.

Chemical and petroleum revenues increased $5.2 million to $138.3 million in 1998
compared to 1997.  Increases in  miscellaneous  chemicals and soda ash carloads,
coupled  with higher  revenues per carload for plastic and  petroleum  products,
were offset by lower  carloads for  plastics,  petroleum  products and petroleum
coke.  The higher  revenues  per carload for  plastics  and  petroleum  products
resulted from a  combination  of rate  increases and length of hauls,  while the
increased  miscellaneous chemical and soda ash carloads arose from the continued
strength of these  markets.  Shipments of plastic  products have  decreased as a
result of a  reduced  emphasis  on low  margin  business,  while  petroleum  and
petroleum  coke  carload  declines  are a result of  economic  turmoil  overseas
(primarily  Asia) affecting the export market.  Chemical and petroleum  products
accounted for 26.3% of total 1998 carload revenues compared with 27.1% for 1997.

During 1997,  chemical and petroleum  revenues  increased to $133.1 million from
$129.0 million.  This $4.1 million increase,  or 3.2%,  resulted  primarily from
increased revenues in plastics,  miscellaneous  chemical, soda ash and petroleum
shipments  offset by reduced  petroleum coke  shipments.  Chemical and petroleum
products  accounted for 27.1% of total 1997 carload revenues compared with 27.5%
for 1996.

Paper and Forest
KCSR,  whose rail line runs through the heart of the  southeastern  U.S.  timber
producing region,  serves eleven paper mills directly  (including  International
Paper Co. and Georgia Pacific,  Riverwood  International,  among others) and six
others  indirectly  through  short-line  connections,  and transports  pulpwood,
woodchips and raw fiber used in the production of paper, pulp and paperboard.

Paper and forest product  revenues  increased $2.4 million to $108.8 million for
1998,  primarily as a result of increased  carloads and revenues per carload for
pulp,  paper  and  lumber  products,  offset by a  reduction  in  pulpwood  chip
shipments. Improved lumber shipments have resulted from the strong home building
and remodeling market in 1998, while pulp/paper increases are primarily a result
of paper mill expansions for several  customers  served by KCSR.  Although paper
and forest  revenues  increased for 1998,  fourth quarter  carloads and revenues
decreased  compared  with  fourth  quarter  of 1997.  Paper and  forest  product
revenues  are  expected  to remain  somewhat  flat  during 1999 due to a reduced
demand for these products and higher current  inventories and stockpiles.  Paper
and forest traffic  comprised 20.7% of carload  revenues during 1998 compared to
21.7% in 1997.

Paper and forest products  revenues  increased $2.9 million,  or 2.8%, to $106.4
million for the year ended  December 31, 1997 from $103.5  million from the year
ended December 31, 1996 as a result of increased carloads for lumber/plywood and
higher  revenues  per carload for  pulpwood  and  woodchips  offset by 



decreased  pulpwood  and  woodchips  carloads.  Paper  and  forest  traffic
comprised 21.7% of carload revenues in 1997 as compared to 22.1% in 1996.

Agricultural and Mineral
Agricultural  and Mineral product  revenues for the year ended December 31, 1998
were $94.7  million,  an increase of $9.7 million,  or 11.4%,  compared to 1997.
Increased  carloads  for  most  agricultural  and  mineral  products,  including
domestic and export  grain,  food,  nonmetallic  ores,  cement,  glass and stone
contributed to the increase. Higher revenues per carload, most notably in export
grain and food products,  were  partially  offset by a reduction in revenues per
carload  from  domestic  grain  movements.  Changes in revenues  per carload are
primarily  due to mix in the length of haul.  A portion of the volume  increases
can be attributed to increased traffic flow with Mexico. Over the long-term, the
Company  expects to continue to supply carloads of grain to Mexico through Grupo
TFM because of Mexico's  reliance on imports of grain to meet its minimum needs.
Agricultural  and mineral  products  comprised 18.0% of carload revenues in 1998
compared with 17.3% in 1997.

Agricultural  and mineral products  revenues for 1997 increased $10 million,  or
13.3%,  compared  to 1996  primarily  as a result of higher  carloads  of grain,
especially corn, due to a strong harvest. Additionally,  carloads of nonmetallic
minerals increased approximately 18% over 1996 volume.  Agricultural and mineral
products  accounted  for 17.3% of carload  revenues in 1997 compared with 16% in
1996.

Intermodal
The intermodal  freight business consists of hauling freight containers or truck
trailers by a combination of water, rail and motor carriers,  with rail carriers
serving as the links between motor carriers and ports.  KCSR increased its share
of  the  U.S.  intermodal  traffic  primarily  through  the  acquisition  of the
MidSouth, which extended the Company's east/west line running from Dallas, Texas
to  Shreveport,  Louisiana to Meridian,  Mississippi.  During 1997,  the Company
committed to a plan to pursue  intermodal  business  based on  operating  margin
versus growth through  carload  volume.  This strategy  continues as the Company
increases its access to the intermodal  marketplace  through strategic alliances
with the Norfolk Southern and CN/IC.

During 1998,  intermodal  revenues  increased $3.1 million,  or 7.3%,  over 1997
primarily as a result of higher unit  shipments of  approximately  13% year over
year,  offset partially by a decrease in revenue per unit. Almost all of the 13%
volume growth related to containers.  Container  shipments have a lower rate per
unit shipped than trailers and, as a result revenues per unit shipped  declined.
Container  movements,  however,  also have more favorable  profit margins due to
their lower inherent cost structure  compared to trailers.  Intermodal  revenues
accounted for 8.8% of carload revenues in both 1998 and 1997.

Intermodal  revenues for 1997 of $43.2 million  increased $2.9 million,  or 7.2%
from 1996  revenues of $40.3  million  primarily as a result of increased  units
shipped,  offset by a slight decrease in revenue per unit.  Revenues from United
Parcel Service of America,  one of KCSR's largest  customers,  declined slightly
due to the  International  Brotherhood  of  Teamsters  strike  in  August  1997;
however,  the strike's overall impact on KCSR's operating  results and financial
condition was not  material.  Intermodal  traffic  accounted for 8.8% of carload
revenues in 1997 compared with 8.6% in 1996.

Certain segments of KCSR's freight traffic,  especially intermodal,  face highly
price  and  service  sensitive  competition  from  trucks,  although  management
believes recent  improvements in railroad  operating  efficiencies are lessening
the  truckers'  cost  advantages.  Trucks  are not  obligated  to  provide or to
maintain rights of way and do not have to pay real estate taxes on their routes.
In prior years, the trucking industry  diverted a substantial  amount of freight
from the railroads as truck operators' efficiency over long distances increased.
Because fuel costs  constitute a larger  percentage  of the trucking  industry's
costs, declining fuel prices  disproportionately  benefit trucking operations as
compared  to  railroad  operations.  Changing  regulations,  subsidized  highway
improvement   programs  and  favorable  labor   regulations  have  improved  the
competitive position of trucks as an alternative mode of surface  transportation
for many commodities.  In recent years,  railroad industry management has sought
avenues for improving its competitive  positions and forged alliances with truck
companies  in order to move more traffic by rail and provide  faster,  safer and
more




efficient  service  to  its  customers.  KCSR  has  streamlined  its  intermodal
operations in the last few years,  making its service  competitive both in price
and service with trucking, and has entered into agreements with several trucking
companies for through train intermodal service between Dallas and Meridian. KCSR
has  increased  its  intermodal  traffic  through its  connections  with eastern
railroads.

Other
KCSR's  remaining  freight  business  consists of scrap and slab  steel,  waste,
military equipment and automobiles. Other revenues accounted for 3.8% of carload
revenues  during  1998,  4.2%  during  1997,  and 4.0% in 1996 with no  material
variances. During the year ended December 31, 1997, KCSR accepted only a minimal
amount of diverted  UP trains as a result of traffic  congestion,  resulting  in
approximately  $3.9 million in revenue.  Revenue from these diverted  trains was
recorded in other miscellaneous revenues, not in other carload revenues.


Costs and Expenses




General
For the year ended December 31, 1998,  KCSR's costs and expenses  increased $4.0
million  compared with 1997,  exclusive of  restructuring,  asset impairment and
other  charges  recorded  during fourth  quarter 1997,  primarily as a result of
increased materials and supplies,  car hire, purchased services,  and casualties
and insurance,  largely offset by decreased salaries,  wages and benefits,  fuel
costs and  depreciation  and  amortization.  Salaries,  wages and  benefits  and
depreciation  and  amortization  expenses  declined as expected  primarily  as a
result of the restructuring,  asset impairment and other charges as discussed in
the "Results of Operations" above. Fuel costs decreased due to lower fuel prices
somewhat offset by higher usage.

1998 KCSR variable operating expenses declined 1.5% as a percentage of revenues,
exclusive  of 1997  restructuring,  asset  impairment  and other  charges.  This
improvement  relates  to the  increase  in  revenues  and  the  continuation  of
management's cost control initiatives.

Exclusive of restructuring, asset impairment and other charges of $163.8 million
in 1997,  total costs and expenses would have  increased only $19.3 million,  or
4.6% over 1996,  primarily  as a result of  increased  fuel costs and  operating
lease expenses. Diesel fuel usage increased due to both an increase in ton miles
and carloads,  while fuel prices were  essentially  unchanged.  Costs related to
fixed equipment  operating  leases increased as a result of the Southern Capital
transaction  (note,  however,  that the Company  records  equity  earnings  from
Southern Capital which partially mitigates this increase).




Overall,  1997 KCSR variable  operating  expenses,  exclusive of  restructuring,
asset  impairment and other  charges,  declined 2.9% as a percentage of revenues
from 1996  indicative  of a higher rate of growth for KCSR  revenues than costs.
The  improved  cost  structure   resulted  from  cost  containment   initiatives
implemented  by  management.  Improvements  in variable  expenses  were somewhat
offset by  increases  in fixed  expenses,  primarily  related to lease  expenses
associated  with  Southern  Capital in the fourth  quarter of 1996, as discussed
above.

Fuel
KCSR locomotive fuel usage represented 7.2% of KCSR operating expenses in 1998 (
7.9% in 1997,  exclusive of restructuring,  asset impairment and other charges).
1998 fuel costs declined $2.8 million,  or 8.1%,  arising from a 15% decrease in
average fuel cost per gallon (primarily due to market driven factors)  partially
offset by an increase in fuel usage of 9%.

Fuel  costs are  affected  by  traffic  levels,  efficiency  of  operations  and
equipment,  and  petroleum  market  conditions.  Control of fuel  expenses  is a
constant  concern of  management,  and fuel savings  remains a top priority.  To
control fuel costs, based on favorable market conditions at the end of 1995, the
Company entered into purchase commitments for approximately 50% of expected 1996
diesel fuel usage.  As a result of  increasing  fuel prices  during 1996,  these
commitments saved KCSR  approximately  $3.7 million.  Due to higher fuel prices,
minimal  commitments were made for 1997. At the end of 1997, the Company entered
into purchase commitments for approximately 27% of its expected 1998 diesel fuel
usage, as well as hedge  transactions  (fuel swaps) for approximately 37% of its
expected 1998 usage.  As a result of fuel prices  remaining  below the committed
price  during  1998,  these  purchase  commitments  resulted in a higher cost of
approximately  $1.7  million.   Additionally,   the  Company  made  payments  of
approximately $2.3 million relating to the fuel swap transactions as a result of
actual fuel prices remaining lower than the swap price.

At December 31,  1998,  the Company has entered into  purchase  commitments  for
approximately 32% of its expected 1999 usage.  Further,  the Company has entered
into fuel swap  transactions for  approximately  16% of expected 1999 usage. See
"Financial Instruments and Purchase Commitments" for further information.

Roadway Maintenance
Portions  of  roadway  maintenance  costs are  capitalized  and  other  portions
expensed (as components of material and supplies, purchased services and other),
as appropriate.  Expenses aggregated $40, $47 and $51 million for 1998, 1997 and
1996,  respectively.   Maintenance  and  capital  improvement  programs  are  in
conformity with the Federal  Railroad  Administration's  track standards and are
accounted  for  in  accordance  with  applicable  regulatory  accounting  rules.
Management  expects to continue to fund roadway  maintenance  expenditures  with
internally generated cash flows.

Car Hire
Expenses for car hire payable, net of receivables increased $6.2 million for the
year ended  December  31, 1998  compared to 1997.  This  increase in net expense
results from a change in equipment  utilization  (i.e. as certain leases expire,
KCSR is electing to use more  foreign  cars rather than  renewing  the lease and
switching fixed payment leases to utilization leases), increased carloads, track
congestion (primarily weather-related in third and fourth quarter) and decreased
amounts of car hire receivable, primarily due to the easing of the UP congestion
prevalent  in 1997. A portion of the  increased  car hire costs were offset by a
decrease in related  operating  lease  expenses as a result of these  changes in
equipment utilization.

Expenses for car hire payable,  net of  receivables  declined  $3.8 million,  or
51.3% for the year ended  December 31, 1997 compared to 1996.  This reduction in
net expense results from several factors  including better fleet utilization and
increased  amounts  of car  hire  receivable  related  to KCSR  owned  equipment
utilization on foreign railroads.  This was particularly  evident as a result of
the congestion  difficulties of the UP where KCSR equipment was held on UP lines
for longer than normal periods.



Casualties and Insurance
1998 casualties and insurance  expense  increased $5.6 million,  or 26.2%,  over
1997,  primarily as a result of $3.7 million in higher derailment  related costs
experienced  during the latter half of 1998,  as well as an increase in personal
injury related expenses. A primary objective of KCSR is to operate in the safest
environment possible and efforts are ongoing to improve its safety experience.

Casualties and insurance expense declined $1.7 million, or 7.4% to $21.4 million
for the year ended  December  31, 1997  compared to $23.1  million in 1996.  The
reduction  in  casualties  and  insurance  costs from 1996  resulted  from lower
derailment costs and reduced  injuries,  in part,  caused by KCSR ongoing safety
initiatives.

Depreciation and amortization 
For the year ended December 31, 1998, KCSR depreciation and amortization expense
declined $4.1 million,  or 7.5%, to $50.6 million,  primarily as a result of the
reduction of amortization and depreciation expense of approximately $5.6 million
arising from the  impairment of goodwill and certain  branch lines held for sale
recorded  during December 1997, the effect of which was not realized until 1998.
See  discussion  above in "Results of  Operations."  This decline was  partially
offset by increased depreciation from property additions.

KCSR  depreciation  and amortization  expense declined $4.4 million,  or 7.4% to
$54.7  million for the year ended  December 31, 1997 from $59.1 million from the
year  ended  December  31,  1996,  primarily  due to the  transfer  of assets to
Southern  Capital  during the fourth  quarter  of 1996,  offset by 1997  capital
expenditures.


Operating Income and Operating Ratio
Exclusive of 1997  restructuring,  asset  impairment and other  charges,  KCSR's
operating  income  increased $28.6 million,  or 33.5%, to $113.9 million in 1998
from $85.3 million in 1997. This improved operating income,  which was driven by
increased revenues and the continued containment of operating expenses, resulted
in a 1998  operating  ratio of 79.9%  compared with 83.4% in 1997  (exclusive of
restructuring,  asset  impairment and other  charges).  The operating ratio is a
common efficiency  measurement among Class I railroads and management expects to
maintain its operating  ratio below 80%,  despite its  substantial  use of lease
financing for its locomotives and rolling stock.

Exclusive of the  restructuring,  asset  impairment  and other  charges in 1997,
operating  income  increased $6.0 million,  or 8.1%,  from 1996,  reflecting the
impact of KCSR's increased  revenues and reduced costs.  These improvements were
reflected  in an  improved  KCSR  operating  ratio of 83.4%  for the year  ended
December  31,  1997,  which is below the 84.5%  operating  ratio for 1996.  This
reflects the marked improvement made during the last six months of 1997 in which
the average  operating ratio was 79.3%, as a result of increased margins arising
primarily from cost containment initiatives by management.


KCSR Interest
For the year ended December 31, 1998,  interest  expense  decreased 6%, to $35.6
million  from $37.9  million  in 1997.  This  decrease  primarily  reflects  the
reduction  in  average  debt  balances  during  the  year  as a  result  of debt
repayments.

Interest  expense  decreased  $11.5 million,  or 23.3%, to $37.9 million in 1997
from $49.4  million in 1996 due to a full  year's  impact of the debt  reduction
associated with the Southern Capital transaction.


Gateway Western
For the year ended December 31, 1998,  Gateway Western  contributed $4.1 million
to the  Company's  net income,  a $1.1  million  increase ( 36.7%) over the $3.0
million  contributed in 1997.  Freight revenues  increased $2.5 million to $45.2
million from $42.7 million in 1997, while operating expenses increased




about  $0.9  million  to $36.1  million.  These  results  helped  lower  Gateway
Western's operating ratio to 79.9% for 1998 from 82.4% in 1997.

At December 31, 1996,  while the Company awaited approval from the STB of KCSI's
purchase,  Gateway  Western  was  accounted  for  under the  equity  method as a
majority-owned unconsolidated subsidiary.


Unconsolidated Affiliates
During 1998 and 1997, the  Transportation  segment's  unconsolidated  affiliates
were comprised primarily of Grupo TFM, Mexrail,  and Southern Capital.  The PCRC
has  yet to  begin  operations.  During  1996,  the two  primary  unconsolidated
affiliates were Mexrail and Southern Capital.

For the year ended December 31, 1998, the Transportation segment recorded equity
in net losses of $2.9 million from unconsolidated  affiliates compared to equity
in net losses of $9.7 million in 1997. The majority of this improvement  relates
to the  operations of Grupo TFM. In 1998,  equity in net losses related to Grupo
TFM were $3.2 million  compared to equity in net losses of $12.9 million in 1997
(for the period from June 23, 1997 to December 31, 1997).  This  improvement  in
Grupo TFM is primarily  attributable  to higher  revenues and operating  income,
coupled with a higher tax benefit  associated  with the  devaluation of the peso
(on a U.S. GAAP  accounting  basis) and one-time  impact of a $10 million bridge
loan fee in 1997.  Equity in net losses from  Mexrail  were $2.0 million in 1998
compared  with equity in net earnings of $0.9 million in 1997.  Tex Mex revenues
increased  during the first three  quarters of 1998 as a result of the Emergency
Service Order;  however,  expenses associated with accommodating the increase in
traffic and  congestion-related  problems of the UP system  offset this  revenue
growth.  In 1998,  equity in net earnings from Southern Capital was $2.0 million
compared with $2.1 million in 1997.

For the year ended December 31, 1997, the Transportation segment recorded a loss
of $9.7  million  from  unconsolidated  affiliates  compared  to  income of $1.5
million for 1996.  In 1997,  estimated  losses of $12.9  million  (from June 23,
1997,  excluding  interest) related to Grupo TFM were partially offset by equity
in earnings from Southern Capital and Mexrail. Grupo TFM experienced higher than
expected  revenues  during 1997 based on  increased  carloads,  offset by higher
operating expenses necessary to maintain expected customer service levels. Grupo
TFM's results  included a write-off of a bridge loan  commitment fee during 1997
(of which the Company recorded $2.6 million as its proportionate share).

Grupo TFM
Similar to KCSR, Grupo TFM's subsidiary,  TFM, derives its freight revenues from
a wide  variety  of  commodity  movements,  including  chemical  and  petroleum,
automotive,  food and grain,  manufacturing industry,  metals, minerals and ores
and  intermodal.  For the year ended  December  31, 1998,  revenues  improved to
$431.3 million from $206.4  million for the initial  period of operations  (June
23,  1997  -  December  31,  1997)  with  average  monthly  revenues  increasing
approximately  8%. In  addition,  during 1998 Grupo TFM  management  was able to
successfully  implement cost reduction  strategies  while continuing to increase
revenues,  thus improving  operating  income.  Most notably,  salaries and wages
declined due to headcount reductions while locomotive fuel expense decreased due
to favorable fuel prices.  Evidence of these  improvements is reflected in TFM's
1998 operating ratio,  which improved to 85.5% from  approximately 94% for 1997.
Grupo TFM  management  believes this trend will continue in 1999 as expenses are
expected to continue to decline as a percentage  of revenues  through  effective
cost control measures and more efficient operations. As an example, salaries and
wages are expected to decrease  further  during 1999 as TFM continues to improve
its operating efficiency and reduce headcount.





Other Transportation-Related Affiliates and Holding Company Components
Other subsidiaries in the Transportation segment include:
*    Trans-Serve, Inc., an owner of a railroad wood tie treating facility;
*    Pabtex (located in Port Arthur, Texas with deep water access to the Gulf of
     Mexico),  an owner and operator of a bulk materials handling facility which
     stores and transfers  coal and petroleum  coke from trucks and rail cars to
     ships and barges primarily for export;
*    Mid-South  Microwave,  Inc.,  which owns and leases a 1,600 mile industrial
     frequency microwave  transmission system that is the primary communications
     facility used by KCSR;
*    Rice-Carden Corporation and Tolmak, Inc., both owning and operating various
     industrial  real  estate  and spur  rail  trackage  contiguous  to the KCSR
     right-of-way;
*    Southern Development Company, the owner of the executive office building in
     downtown Kansas City, Missouri used by KCSI and KCSR;
*    Wyandotte Garage  Corporation,  an owner and operator of a parking facility
     located in downtown Kansas City, Missouri used by KCSI and KCSR; and
*    KCSL,  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the  Company,  serving  as a holding
     company for Transportation-related entities.

1998  contributions to net income from other  Transportation-related  affiliates
and KCSL increased  $10.0 million from 1997,  primarily as a result of the asset
impairment  charges  recorded  during  fourth  quarter 1997 as discussed  below.
Exclusive of these charges,  contributions to net income increased approximately
$1.0 million.

During  1997,  contributions  to net income  from  other  Transportation-related
affiliates  decreased  $12.4 million,  primarily as a result of $14.2 million of
asset impairment  charges recorded during fourth quarter 1997 relating to Pabtex
and certain real estate. In addition,  Pabtex continued to experience  decreased
revenues resulting from the loss of petroleum coke customers.


TRANSPORTATION  SEGMENT TRENDS and OUTLOOK
Assuming no major economic  deterioration  occurs in the region  serviced by the
Company's  Transportation  segment,  management  expects  the NAFTA  Railway  to
continue to have an attractive  service offering for shippers.  KCSR and Gateway
Western 1999 carloads and revenues are expected to increase over 1998 levels and
management  expects to realize  continued  benefits from traffic with Mexico and
the  KCSR/CN/IC  alliance.  Variable  costs are  expected  to continue at levels
proportionate  with revenues,  assuming  continued  success of cost  containment
efforts.

The Company  expects to record  equity in net earnings  from its  investment  in
Grupo TFM during 1999. Initial  projections did not anticipate  recording equity
in net earnings  until 2000.  Revenues  have  continued to grow since  inception
(June 23,  1997) and are  expected to continue to grow during  1999.  Costs were
reduced  significantly during 1998 compared to 1997 levels,  resulting in higher
operating profit.  The anticipated  equity in net earnings of Grupo TFM for 1999
will be offset by  interest  expense  associated  with the debt  related  to the
Company's investment in Grupo TFM, which is expected to result in an overall net
loss related to the Company's  investment in Grupo TFM. These  expected  results
for Grupo TFM are based on current  projections on the valuation of the peso for
1999.  Management does not make any assurances as to the impact that a change in
the  value of the peso will  have on the  results  of Grupo  TFM.  See  "Foreign
Exchange Matters" below and Item 7(A),  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk, of this Form 10-K for further  information.  Management  also
expects to record equity in net earnings  from its Southern  Capital and Mexrail
investments  during  1999.  Similar  to Grupo  TFM,  Mexrail's  expected  equity
earnings  are  expected to be offset by interest  expense and  amortization  and
result in a slight  overall  net loss  related to the  Company's  investment  in
Mexrail.





FINANCIAL SERVICES

The Financial Services segment ("Financial Services") contributed $152.2 million
to the Company's  consolidated  earnings in 1998 versus $118.0  million in 1997.
Exclusive  of the  one-time  items  recorded in both years as  discussed  in the
"Results of Operations" section above,  earnings were $36.6 million (27%) higher
than 1997.  Revenues  increased  $185.7 million,  or 38%, over 1997,  leading to
higher operating income. While operating income increased,  efforts to ensure an
adequate infrastructure to provide for consistent, reliable and accurate service
to investors  caused a decrease in operating  margins in 1998,  from 45% for the
year ended  December 31, 1997 to 42% for 1998.  Total  assets  under  management
increased  $41.9 billion (59%) during 1998,  reaching $113.5 billion at December
31, 1998.  Janus and Berger  shareowner  accounts  exceeded  three million as of
December 31, 1998, a 12% increase over 1997.

Financial  Services  contributed  $118.0  million to the Company's  consolidated
results  in 1997,  a $16.6  million  decline  from  1996.  Exclusive  of certain
one-time  items in both years as  discussed  in "Results of  Operations"  above,
however,  earnings  improved 54%.  Revenues  increased $155.5 million over 1996,
leading to higher operating  income and improved  operating  margins.  Operating
margins increased from 40% for the year ended December 31, 1996 to 45% for 1997.
Assets under  management  increased 42% during 1997,  reaching  $71.6 billion at
December 31, 1997.  Further,  Janus and Berger  shareowner  accounts  neared 2.7
million as of December 31, 1997.



(i)  Excludes money market funds
(ii) The Janus  Aspen  Series  consists  of eleven  portfolios  offered  through
     variable  annuity  and  variable  life  insurance  contracts,  and  certain
     qualified pension plans
(iii)Janus World Funds PLC is a group of  Ireland-domiciled  funds introduced in
     December 1998.








Increases in Financial Services revenue and operating income are a direct result
of growth in assets under  management.  Assets under  management and shareholder
accounts have grown in recent years from a combination of new money  investments
(i.e., fund sales) and market appreciation. Fund sales have risen in response to
marketing efforts, favorable fund performance, introduction and market reception
of new  products,  and the current  popularity of no-load  mutual funds.  Market
appreciation has resulted from increases in investment values.

Following  is a detailed  discussion  of the  operating  results of the  primary
subsidiaries comprising the Financial Services segment.


Janus Capital Corporation


In 1998,  assets under management  increased 59.7% to $108.3 billion as a result
of net  sales of  $13.4  billion  and  $27.1  billion  in  market  appreciation.
Approximately   $87.0  billion  was  invested  in  the  Janus  Investment  Funds
(including  money  market  funds),  the Janus  Aspen  Series and the Janus World
Funds,  with the remainder  held by  sub-advised  and private  accounts.  Equity
portfolios comprised 94% of total assets under management at December 31, 1998.

Excluding  money market  funds,  1998 net sales of the Janus  Investment  Funds,
Janus Aspen  Series and Janus  World  Funds were $11.3  billion and net sales of
sub-advised and private  accounts  totaled $1.6 billion.  Total Janus shareowner
accounts increased 353,000, or 15%, to 2.7 million.

Janus' revenues,  derived largely from fees based upon a percent of assets under
management,  increased $176.0 million (39%) to $626.2 million in 1998, driven by
the significant growth in assets under management year to year.

Exclusive of $2.7 and $2.2 million in amortization  costs attributed to Janus in
1998 and  1997,  respectively,  operating  expenses  increased  47% from  $223.5
million  in  1997  to  $329.4  million  in  1998.  This  increase  reflects  the
significant  growth in assets under  management and revenues,  as well as Janus'
efforts to 




develop its  infrastructure to ensure consistent  quality of service.
Approximately  47% of  Janus'  1998  operating  expenses  were  variable  (e.g.,
incentive   compensation,   mutual  fund  supermarket   fees,  etc.),  19%  were
discretionary (principally marketing, pension plan contributions,  etc.) and the
remainder fixed.

A brief discussion of key expense increases follows:

o    Employee  compensation and benefits increased $45 million,  or 40%, in 1998
     compared to 1997 due to an increased number of employees  (including senior
     investment management,  marketing and administration  employees, as well as
     additional  shareholder  servicing and  technology  support  personnel) and
     incentive compensation. Incentive compensation increased principally due to
     growth  in  assets  under  management   combined  with  strong   investment
     performance. In particular,  portfolio management incentive compensation --
     formulated to reward top  investment  performance -- approached its highest
     possible  rate  in 1998  as a  result  of more  than  93% of  assets  under
     management  ending  1998  in the top  quartile  of  investment  performance
     compared  to  their   respective  peer  groups  (as  defined   pursuant  to
     compensation agreements).

o    Alliance and mutual fund  supermarket  fees  increased 65% in 1998 to $62.3
     million.  This increase was  principally due to an increase in assets under
     management being distributed through these channels,  from $19.0 billion at
     December 31, 1997 to $32.3 billion at December 31, 1998.

o    Marketing, promotional and advertising expenditures increased $17.5 million
     during 1998 to  capitalize on generally  favorable  market  conditions,  to
     respond to market volatility and to continue establishing the Janus brand.

o    Depreciation  and  amortization  increased $2.3 million in 1998 compared to
     1997 due to increased infrastructure spending as discussed below.


Assets under  management  increased 45% during 1997 to $67.8 billion as a result
of net fund sales of $10.7  billion and market  appreciation  of $10.4  billion.
Approximately  $54.6 billion was invested in the Janus  Investment Funds and the
Janus Aspen Series, with the remainder held by sub-advised and private accounts.
Equity portfolios comprised 92% of total assets under management at December 31,
1997. Total shareowner accounts grew 10% during 1997 to 2.4 million.

Driven by the  increase  in assets  under  management  from 1996 to 1997,  Janus
revenues improved 52% during 1997. Additionally, as a result of a slower rate of
growth in expenses compared to revenues during 1997,  operating margins improved
to 50% versus 46% in 1996.  Approximately 43% of Janus' 1997 operating  expenses
consisted  of  variable  costs,  18%  were   discretionary   and  the  remainder
represented  fixed costs.  The following  discussion  highlights  changes in key
expense categories.

o    Salaries and wages  increased year to year,  primarily from a higher number
     of employees in 1997  compared to 1996 and  variable  compensation  tied to
     investment and financial performance.

o    Alliance and mutual fund  supermarket  fees were higher in 1997 as a result
     of a greater amount of assets being  distributed  through these channels --
     approximately  28% of Janus' December 31, 1997 assets under management were
     generated  through these  distribution  arrangements  compared to 23% as of
     December 31, 1996.

General

The 60% and  45%  increases  in  assets  under  management  in  1998  and  1997,
respectively,  are attributable to several factors including,  among others: (i)
strong  securities  markets,   particularly  equities;  (ii)  strong  investment
performance across all of Janus' products;  (iii) strategic marketing and public
relations;  (iv)  



effective  use of third party  distribution  channels for both
retail and sub-advised products; and (v) a strong brand awareness.

During  December  1998,  Janus  introduced  the Janus  World  Funds PLC  ("Janus
World"), a group of offshore multiclass funds modeled after certain of the Janus
Investment  Funds and domiciled in Dublin,  Ireland.  There are currently  seven
investment  portfolios offered for sale, including two equity portfolios,  three
fixed income  portfolios,  a balanced  portfolio  and a money market  portfolio.
Total assets at December 31, 1998 were $66 million.  More than 80% of sales were
made into the  funds'  class B shares,  which  require  Janus to  advance  sales
commissions to various financial  intermediaries.  Payment of these commissions,
although currently minor in relation to Janus' investment  holdings,  may impact
future liquidity and cash resources.

Janus  introduced  the following  domestic funds during the three year period 
ended December 31, 1998:
o    1998 - Janus Global Technology Fund; Janus Global Life Sciences Fund; Janus
     Aspen Growth and Income Portfolio
o    1997 - Janus Aspen  Capital  Appreciation  Portfolio;  Janus  Aspen  Equity
     Income Portfolio
o    1996 - Janus Aspen High Yield  Portfolio;  Janus Equity Income Fund;  Janus
     Special Situations Fund

In  1998  and  1997,  Janus  spent  $41 and $11  million,  respectively,  on its
infrastructure  to ensure  uninterrupted  service  to  shareholders;  to provide
up-to-the-minute  investment and securities  trading data; to improve  operating
efficiency;  to integrate information systems; and to obtain additional physical
space  for  expansion.   These  efforts  produced,  among  other  things:  
o    an  enterprise-wide  reporting system,  producing more efficient and timely
     management reporting and allowing full integration
     of portfolio management, human resources, budgeting and financial systems;
o    a second investor service and data center opened in Austin,  Texas in 1998,
     including redundant data and telephone connections to allow the facility to
     operate  in  the  event  that  Denver   facilities  and  personnel   become
     unavailable;
o    an upgrade of Janus' web site,  providing  shareholders  the opportunity to
     customize  their personal Janus home page and to process most  transactions
     on-line; and
o    improvements of physical  facilities,  producing a more efficient workspace
     and allowing Janus to accommodate additional growth and technology.


Berger Associates, Inc.


Berger  reported  1998 net earnings of $3.9 million  compared to $4.3 million in
1997,  exclusive of interest and  amortization  charges  attributed to Berger in
both years and the 1997 one-time  charges  discussed in "Results of  Operations"
above.  Including the interest and  amortization  charges in both years,  Berger
reported  a net loss of $3.2  million in 1998  versus a loss of $3.5  million in
1997  (exclusive of the 1997 one-time  charges).  Total assets under  management
held by the Berger Complex of funds increased to $4.0 billion as of December 31,
1998, a 5% increase over  comparable  1997.  This increase was  attributable  to
market  appreciation of $0.9 billion,  largely offset by net redemptions of $0.7
billion.  While total Berger  shareowner  accounts  decreased  approximately 13%
during 1998, primarily within the Berger 100 Fund, the number of accounts in the
funds  introduced  during  1997 and  1998  increased  88%  year to  year.  These
fluctuations  in  shareholder   accounts  generally  are  indicative  of  recent
performance compared to peer groups.

As a result of fluctuations in the level of assets under  management  throughout
1998,  revenues  decreased  approximately  4% in 1998 from 1997.  Berger's  1998
operating  expenses  were  essentially  even  with  1997.  While  reductions  in
marketing costs resulted from a more targeted advertising program, these savings
were offset by higher  salaries and wages  resulting  from an increased  average




number of employees during 1998 versus 1997.  Amortization expense attributed to
Berger  was  lower  in 1998 due to  reduced  goodwill  from the 1997  impairment
discussed previously.

Berger  recorded  $1.5  million  in  equity  earnings  from  its  joint  venture
investment,  BBOI, for the year ended December 31, 1998 compared to $0.6 million
in  1997.  This  increase  reflects   continued  growth  in  BBOI  assets  under
management,  which totaled $522 million at December 31, 1998 versus $161 million
at December 31, 1997.


Berger reported net earnings of $4.3 million in 1997 compared to $5.2 million in
1996,  excluding interest and amortization  charges attributed to Berger in both
years and the one-time 1997 charges. Including interest and amortization, Berger
reported  net losses of $3.5 and $1.2  million  in 1997 and 1996,  respectively.
Assets under management increased to $3.8 billion at December 31, 1997 from $3.6
billion at December  31,  1996.  Shareholder  accounts  declined  16% from 1996,
totaling  317,400  at  December  31,  1997.  This  decrease  generally  reflects
shareholder reaction to below-peer performance by certain of the larger funds.

Due to higher average assets under management during 1997, Berger  experienced a
slight increase in revenues year to year.  Operating costs,  however,  increased
more than  revenues  thereby  resulting  in a higher net loss than  prior  year.
Higher  expenses  (e.g.,  consulting fees and  advertising)  reflected  Berger's
efforts to enhance product awareness and acceptance.  Additionally, during 1997,
the  Company   increased  its  ownership  in  Berger  to  100%  through  several
transactions by Berger and the Company. The Company recorded approximately $17.8
million in goodwill as a result of these transactions. Accordingly, amortization
expense was higher in 1997 than in 1996.

In connection with the Company's review of the recoverability of its assets, the
Company determined that $12.7 million of goodwill associated with Berger was not
recoverable as of December 31, 1997, primarily due to below-peer performance and
growth of the core Berger funds. Accordingly, a portion of the goodwill recorded
in connection  with the  repurchase of Berger  minority  interest was charged to
expense.

General

During 1998 and 1997,  Berger  introduced five new equity funds:  the Berger Mid
Cap Value Fund; the Berger Small Cap Value Fund;  the Berger  Balanced Fund; the
Berger Mid Cap  Growth  Fund;  and the  Berger  Select  Fund.  These  funds held
approximately $493 million of assets under management at December 31, 1998, more
than three times the $155 million at December 31, 1997.

While the core Berger Funds (i.e.,  those introduced prior to 1997)  experienced
declines  in assets  under  management  during 1998 and 1997,  the newer  Berger
offerings,  as noted  above,  reported a growth in assets.  Berger made  certain
changes in the  portfolio  management of these core equity funds during 1998 and
1997 and believes these changes improve  Berger's  opportunity for growth in the
future.

At December 31, 1998 and 1997, approximately 27.6% and 26.3%,  respectively,  of
Berger's  total assets  under  management  were  generated  through  mutual fund
"supermarkets."


Other Financial Services-Related Affiliates and Holding Company Components

Nelson Money Managers plc

As noted in the  "Results of  Operation"  section  above,  the Company  acquired
Nelson in April 1998. Nelson  contributed $0.6 million to consolidated  earnings
in 1998,  exclusive of charges attributed to Nelson 



relating to the  amortization  of  intangibles  recorded in connection  with the
acquisition.  Including the  amortization  costs,  Nelson reported a net loss of
$0.7  million  for the period from  acquisition  to December  31,  1998.  Nelson
revenues -- $11.1  million for the period from  acquisition  to year end 1998 --
are earned based on a percentage of funds under management,  together with a fee
on  the  client's  initial   investment.   Operating   expenses,   exclusive  of
amortization  of  intangibles,  totaled $9.9  million.  The  intangible  amounts
associated  with the  acquisition  of Nelson are being  amortized over a 20 year
period.


Equity in Earnings of DST

Exclusive of the one-time fourth quarter  merger-related  charges resulting from
the DST and USCS merger,  equity  earnings  from DST  increased  $6.3 million to
$30.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1998. This  improvement  over 1997
was  attributable  to revenue  growth  resulting from a 10.7% increase in mutual
fund shareowner  accounts serviced (reaching 49.8 million at December 31, 1998),
improved  international  operating  results and higher operating margins year to
year (15.1% versus 14.2% in 1997).

As discussed in the "Recent Developments" section above, fourth quarter and year
ended  1998  include a  one-time  $23.2  million  (after-tax,  $0.21 per  share)
non-cash  charge  resulting from the merger of a wholly-owned  subsidiary of DST
and USCS. This charge reflects the Company's  reduced ownership of DST (from 41%
to approximately  32%),  together with the Company's  proportionate share of DST
and USCS fourth quarter merger-related costs.

Equity in net earnings of DST for the year ended December 31, 1997 totaled $24.3
million.  Exclusive of the 1996 one-time gain on the Continuum  merger discussed
in "Results of Operations" above, equity earnings from DST increased 48% year to
year.  This  increase in DST earnings  reflects an increase in 1997 DST revenues
compared to 1996 (improvements in both domestic and international  revenues) and
improved operating margins in 1997 (14.2% versus 9.8% in 1996).


Interest Expense and Other, net

Fluctuations  in interest  expense from 1996 through 1998 reflect changes in the
average  debt  balances  during the  respective  years.  In 1998,  average  debt
balances were lower than 1997 as repayments reduced  outstanding  balances early
in 1998; accordingly, 1998 interest expense declined from 1997. Interest expense
in 1997 was higher than 1996 as a result of borrowings  in connection  with KCSI
common stock  repurchases.  All of the indebtedness  incurred to repurchase KCSI
common stock was allocated to the Financial Services segment.

Other, net increased in 1998 versus 1997 as a result of an $8.8 million (pretax)
gain on the sale of Janus' 50% interest in IDEX Management, Inc. ("IDEX"). Janus
continues  as  sub-advisor  to the five  portfolios  in the IDEX group of mutual
funds it served  prior to the sale.  This gain was  partially  offset by reduced
1998 other income  recorded at the  Financial  Services  holding  company  level
relating to a sales agreement with a former affiliate.  The change in other, net
between 1997 and 1996 was not material.


FINANCIAL SERVICES TRENDS and OUTLOOK

Future growth of the Company's  Financial Services revenues and operating income
will be largely dependent on prevailing  financial market  conditions,  relative
performance  of Janus,  Berger  and  Nelson  products,  introduction  and market
reception of new products,  as well as other factors,  including  changes in the
stock  and  bond  markets,  increases  in the  rate  of  return  of  alternative
investments,  increasing  competition as the number of mutual funds continues to
grow, and changes in marketing and distribution channels.



As a result of the rapid  revenue  growth  during the last two years,  operating
margins for the Financial Services segment have been strong.  Management expects
that Financial  Services will experience  margin  pressures in the future as the
various  subsidiaries  strive to ensure that the operational and  administrative
infrastructure  continues  to meet the high  standards  of quality  and  service
historically  provided to  investors.  Additionally,  a higher rate of growth in
costs  compared to revenues is expected in connection  with Nelson's  efforts to
expand its operations.

The Company  expects to continue to  participate  in the earnings or losses from
its DST investment.


LIQUIDITY




Operating Cash Flows.  The Company's cash flow from operations has  historically
been  positive  and  sufficient  to  fund   operations,   KCSR  roadway  capital
improvements,  other capital improvements and debt service.  External sources of
cash -- principally  negotiated bank debt,  public debt and sales of investments
- -- have typically been used to fund  acquisitions,  new  investments,  equipment
additions and Company stock repurchases.

The following table  summarizes  consolidated  operating cash flow  information.
Certain  reclassifications have been made to prior years' information to conform
to current year presentation.




1998 operating cash flows  decreased by  approximately  $11.0 million from 1997.
This  decrease was largely  attributable  to the first quarter 1998 KCSR payment
with respect to the  productivity  fund liability,  lower interest  payable as a
result of reduced  indebtedness  during 1998 and declines in contract 



allowances  and  prepaid  freight  charges  due other  railroads.  Also,  due to
quarterly dividend payments by Janus in 1998 (in contrast to annual dividends in
previous years),  minority interest in consolidated earnings did not increase as
it did in 1997.  These  decreases in operating cash flows from year to year were
offset by higher  ongoing  earnings  (approximately  $69 million) and  increased
deferred  tax  expense  (due to  benefits  booked  in 1997  in  connection  with
restructuring, asset impairment and other charges).

Operating  cash flows for the year ended  December 31, 1997 nearly  doubled when
compared  to  the  prior  year,   primarily  because  of  the  1996  payment  of
approximately  $74 million in federal and state income taxes  resulting from the
taxable  gains  associated  with the DST  public  stock  offering  completed  in
November 1995. Also, exclusive of the restructuring,  asset impairment and other
charges recorded in fourth quarter 1997, the one-time Continuum gain in 1996 and
equity  earnings from  unconsolidated  affiliates for both years,  earnings were
approximately $44.0 million higher in 1997 than 1996.


Investing Cash Flows. Cash was used for the following investing  activities:  i)
property  acquisitions of $105,  $83, and $144 million in 1998,  1997, and 1996,
respectively; and ii) investments in and loans with affiliates of $25, $304, and
$42  million  in  1998,  1997  and  1996,  respectively.  Included  in the  1997
investments in affiliates  was the Company's  approximate  $298 million  capital
contribution to Grupo TFM.

Due to  growth  throughout  the  1996 to 1998  period,  Janus  had  invested  an
additional  $43,  $35 and $39  million in  short-term  investments  representing
invested  cash at December 31, 1998,  1997 and 1996,  respectively.  Also,  cash
received  during 1996 in  connection  with the Southern  Capital  joint  venture
formation  and  associated  transactions   (approximately  $217  million,  after
consideration  of related income taxes) is included as proceeds from disposal of
property and from disposal of other  investments  based on the underlying assets
contributed/sold to Southern Capital.

Generally,  operating cash flows and borrowings  under lines of credit have been
used  to  finance  property  acquisitions  and  investments  in and  loans  with
affiliates during the period from 1996 to 1998.


Financing  Cash Flows.  Financing  cash flows  include:  (i) borrowings of $152,
$340, and $234 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996,  respectively;  (ii) repayment of
indebtedness  in the amounts of $239,  $110 and $233  million in 1998,  1997 and
1996, respectively;  (iii) proceeds from stock plans of $30, $27 and $15 million
in 1998,  1997 and 1996,  respectively;  and (iv) cash dividends of $18, $15 and
$15 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

During 1998,  proceeds from borrowings  under existing lines of credit were used
to repay $100 million of 5.75% Notes which were due on July 1, 1998.  Other 1998
borrowings were used to fund the KCSR union  productivity  fund termination ($23
million),  for a portion of the Nelson acquisition ($24 million) and for working
capital  purposes ($5  million).  1997 debt  proceeds were used to fund the $298
million Grupo TFM capital  contribution,  repurchase  Company  common stock ($39
million) and for additional investment in Berger ($3 million). Proceeds from the
issuance  of debt in 1996  were  used  for  stock  repurchases  ($151  million),
additional  investment in Berger ($24 million) and for working capital  purposes
($59 million,  including  payments of federal and state income taxes  associated
with the DST public offering).

During 1998,  repayments  of scheduled  maturities  (except for the $100 million
5.75% Notes discussed above) and outstanding lines of credit were funded through
operating cash flows. In 1997,  operating cash flows were used to reduce amounts
outstanding   under  the   Company's   lines  of  credit.   In  1996,   proceeds
(approximately  $217 million,  after  consideration of income taxes) received in
connection  with the Southern  Capital  joint venture  formation and  associated
transactions were used to repay outstanding amounts under the Company's lines of
credit.

Repurchases  of Company  common stock  during 1997 ($50  million) and 1996 ($151
million) were funded with  borrowings  under  existing lines of credit (as noted
above),  proceeds  received from the DST public offering and repayment by DST of
indebtedness to KCSI, and the $150 million dividend from DST in 1995.



See  discussion  under  "Financial  Instruments  and Purchase  Commitments"  for
information  relative to certain  anticipated 1999 cash  expenditures.  Also see
information  under "Minority  Purchase  Agreements" for information  relative to
other existing contingencies.


CAPITAL STRUCTURE

Capital  Requirements.   The  Company  has  traditionally  funded  KCSR  capital
expenditures   using  Equipment  Trust   Certificates  for  major  purchases  of
locomotive and rolling  stock,  while using  internally  generated cash flows or
leasing  for  other  equipment.  Capital  improvements  for KCSR  roadway  track
structure have  historically  been funded with cash flows from operations.  KCSR
has, however,  increasingly used lease financing alternatives for its locomotive
and rolling stock. Capital  requirements for Janus, Berger,  Nelson, and holding
company and other  subsidiaries have been funded with cash flows from operations
and negotiated term financing.  The Company has the ability to finance  railroad
equipment through its Southern Capital joint venture.

Capital programs from 1996 to 1998 were primarily  financed  through  internally
generated cash flows. These internally generated cash flows were used to finance
KCSR capital  expenditures  in 1998 ($65  million),  1997 ($68 million) and 1996
($135  million).  The same source used for funding the  Company's  1998  capital
programs are expected to be used in funding  1999  capital  programs,  currently
estimated at $123 million.

During 1998, Janus opened a new facility in Austin, Texas as an Investor Service
and  Processing  Center for transfer agent  operations,  allowing for continuous
service in the event the Denver facility is unavailable. Also, in 1998 and 1997,
Janus   upgraded  and  expanded  its   information   technology  and  facilities
infrastructure. These efforts were generally funded with existing cash flows.




At December 31, 1998,  the  Company's  consolidated  debt ratio (total debt as a
percent of total debt plus  equity)  decreased  9.5  percentage  points to 47.3%
compared to December 31, 1997.  Total debt decreased $80.3 million as repayments
exceeded borrowings.  Stockholder's equity increased $232.9 million primarily as
a result of $190.2  million  in  earnings,  $24.1  million  in  non-cash  equity
adjustments  related to unrealized  gains (net of tax) on  "available  for sale"
securities and stock options exercised of approximately $33.5 million, partially
offset by dividends paid of $17.8 million. This increase in stockholders' equity
coupled  with the  decrease in debt  resulted in the  decrease in the debt ratio
from December 31, 1997.

Management anticipates that the debt ratio will decrease during 1999 as a result
of continued debt  repayments and profitable  operations.  Note,  however,  that
unrealized gains on "available for sale"  



securities,  which are  included  net of  deferred  taxes as  accumulated  other
comprehensive   income  in  stockholders'   equity,  are  contingent  on  market
conditions  and  thus,  are  subject  to  significant   fluctuations  in  value.
Significant  declines in the value of these securities  would negatively  impact
stockholders' equity and increase the Company's debt ratio.

The Company's  consolidated  debt ratio increased by 9.4 percentage  points from
December 31, 1996 to December  31, 1997.  Total debt  increased  $271.5  million
during  1997,  primarily  as a  result  of  borrowings  to  fund  the  Company's
investment  in Grupo  TFM and  common  stock  repurchases,  partially  offset by
repayments on outstanding  lines of credit.  Stockholders'  equity  decreased by
$17.4  million,  reflecting  the  Company's  net loss  for 1997 and  essentially
offsetting capital stock transactions  (e.g.,  issuances of common stock, common
stock  repurchases,  non-cash equity  adjustments  related to unrealized  gains,
etc.). The combination of increased debt and reduced equity resulted in a higher
consolidated debt ratio in 1997 than 1996.


Debt Securities  Registration  and Offerings.  The U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission declared the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-3 (File No.
33-69648)  effective  April 22, 1996,  registering  $500 million in  securities.
However,  no securities  have been issued.  The securities may be offered in the
form of Common Stock, New Series Preferred Stock $1 par value,  Convertible Debt
Securities or other Debt  Securities  (collectively,  "the  Securities").  It is
expected that any net proceeds from the sale of the Securities would be added to
the  general  funds of the Company and used  principally  for general  corporate
purposes,  including working capital, capital expenditures,  and acquisitions of
or investments in businesses and assets.


KCSI  Credit  Agreements.  On May 5,  1995,  the  Company  established  a credit
agreement in the amount of $400 million,  comprised of a $300 million  five-year
facility  and a $100 million  364-day  facility.  The $300 million  facility was
renewed in May 1997, extending through May 2002, while the $100 million facility
is expected to be renewed  annually.  Proceeds of these facilities have been and
are  anticipated  to be used for  general  corporate  purposes.  The  agreements
contain a facility fee ranging from .07-.25% per annum and interest  rates below
prime. Additionally, in May 1998, the Company established a $100 million 364-day
credit  agreement  assumable by the Financial  Services segment for its use upon
separation  of the  Company's  two  segments.  This  facility  is expected to be
renewed  annually and proceeds of this facility have been and are anticipated to
be used to repay Company debt and for general corporate purposes. This agreement
contains a facility fee of .15% and interest rates below prime. The Company also
has various other lines of credit totaling $106 million. These additional lines,
which are available for general  corporate  purposes,  have interest rates below
prime and terms of less than one year.  At December  31,  1998,  the Company had
borrowings  of $343  million  under its  various  lines of credit  leaving  $263
million available for use, subject to any limitations  within existing financial
covenants.

As discussed earlier, the Company funded its proportionate amount (approximately
$298 million) of the TFM purchase price payment made by Grupo TFM to the Mexican
Government using borrowings under its lines of credit.


Minority Purchase Agreements. Agreements between KCSI and certain Janus minority
owners contain,  among other  provisions,  mandatory  stock purchase  provisions
whereby  under  certain  circumstances,  KCSI would be required to purchase  the
minority interest of Janus. If all of the provisions of the Janus minority owner
agreements became  effective,  KCSI would be required to purchase the respective
minority  interests at a cost estimated to be  approximately  $456 million as of
December  31,  1998,  compared to $337 and $220 million at December 31, 1997 and
1996,   respectively.   Management  is  currently  exploring  various  financing
alternatives available in the event this would be required.



Overall Liquidity.  The Company believes it has adequate  resources  available -
including sufficient lines of credit (within the financial covenants referred to
below),  businesses which have  historically been positive cash flow generators,
and  the  $500  million  Shelf  Registration  Statement  - to  meet  anticipated
operating,  capital and debt  service  requirements  and other  commitments.  As
discussed  earlier,  there exists a possible  capital call if certain  Grupo TFM
benchmarks are not met.

During  the  1996 to 1998  period,  the  Company  continued  to  strengthen  its
strategic positions in the Transportation and Financial Services businesses. The
Southern Capital joint venture transactions,  which resulted in repayment of the
majority of borrowings  then  outstanding  under the Company's  lines of credit,
provided the Company with flexibility as to future financing requirements (e.g.,
the 1997 investment in Grupo TFM). Additionally,  based on DST's stated dividend
policy, the Company does not anticipate  receiving any dividends from DST in the
foreseeable  future.  Furthermore,  based on the current debt structure of Grupo
TFM, the Company does not  anticipate  receiving any dividends from Grupo TFM in
the foreseeable future.

The Company's cash management  approach  generally  reflects efforts to minimize
cash balances. Cash not required for immediate operating or investing activities
will be utilized to repay indebtedness  under lines of credit.  This approach is
used to help mitigate the Company's  floating-rate debt exposure to fluctuations
in interest rates.

The  Company's  credit  agreements  contain,  among  other  provisions,  various
financial   covenants.   The  Company  was  in  compliance  with  these  various
provisions,  including the financial covenants, as of December 31, 1998. Because
of certain  financial  covenants  contained in the credit  agreements,  however,
maximum   utilization  of  the  Company's  available  lines  of  credit  may  be
restricted.

As discussed above in the "Recent  Developments",  the Company has the option to
purchase  a  portion  of  the  Mexican  Government's  20%  interest  in TFM at a
discount.  Management  is currently  exploring  various  financing  alternatives
available  to fund this  transaction  in the event it  elects to  exercise  this
option.

As discussed in the "Results of Operations"  above, TMM and the Company could be
required to purchase the Mexican  Government's  interest in TFM in proportion to
each partner's respective ownership interest in Grupo TFM (without regard to the
Mexican  Government's  interest in Grupo TFM);  however,  this  provision is not
exercisable prior to October 31, 2003. Also, the Mexican  Government's  interest
in Grupo TFM may be called by TMM and the Company,  exercisable  at the original
amount (in U.S.  dollars) paid by the Government plus interest based on one-year
U.S. Treasury securities.

Pursuant to contractual agreement,  Janus is required to distribute at least 90%
of its net income to its shareholders each year. The Company uses its portion of
these  dividends in accordance  with its strategic  plans,  which have included,
among others, repayment of KCSI indebtedness, repurchase of Company common stock
and  investments in affiliates.  Additionally,  Janus'  agreement with the Janus
World  group of  offshore  funds  includes  an  arrangement  by which  investors
purchases of Janus World class B shares  require a commission  to be advanced by
Janus.  Although advanced commissions were not material to the December 31, 1998
consolidated financial statements,  required funding could become significant in
future years.

As discussed in the "Recent Developments" above, the Company announced a planned
separation of its Transportation and Financial Services businesses.  The Company
is pursuing  this  separation  subject to receipt of a favorable tax ruling from
the IRS and other relevant factors.  The Company is currently  investigating the
potential  impact of the  proposed  transaction  on the  liquidity  and  capital
structure of the Company and expects that this impact will be material.



OTHER

Year 2000. The Year 2000 discussion below contains  forward-looking  statements,
including those  concerning the Company's plans and expected  completion  dates,
cost  estimates,  assessments  of Year 2000 readiness for the Company as well as
for third  parties,  and the  potential  risks of any failure on the part of the
Company  or  third   parties   to  be  Year  2000  ready  on  a  timely   basis.
Forward-looking  statements  involve a number of risks  and  uncertainties  that
could cause actual  results to differ from those  projected.  See the "Overview"
section for additional information.

While the Company continues to evaluate and pursue  discussions with its various
customers, partners and vendors with respect to their preparedness for Year 2000
issues,  no assurance can be made that all such parties will be Year 2000 ready.
While the Company cannot fully  determine its impact,  the inability to complete
Year 2000  readiness  for its  computer  systems  could  result  in  significant
difficulties  in processing and  completing  fundamental  transactions.  In such
events,  the Company's results of operations,  financial position and cash flows
could be materially adversely affected.

Many existing  computer  programs and  microprocessors  that use only two digits
(rather  than four) to  identify a year could fail or create  erroneous  results
with respect to dates after  December 31, 1999 if not corrected to read all four
digits.  This  computer  program  flaw is expected to affect all  companies  and
organizations,  either  directly  (through a company's own computer  programs or
systems that use computer  programs,  such as telephone  systems) or  indirectly
(through customers and vendors of the company).

These Year 2000 related issues are of particular  importance to the Company. The
Company  depends upon its computer and other systems and the computers and other
systems of third parties to conduct and manage the Company's  Transportation and
Financial Services businesses. Additionally, the Company's products and services
are heavily  dependent upon using accurate dates in order to function  properly.
These Year 2000 related  issues may also  adversely  affect the  operations  and
financial  performance of one or more of the Company's  customers and suppliers.
As a result, the failure of the Company's  computer and other systems,  products
or  services,  the  computer  systems and other  systems  upon which the Company
depends,  or the  Company's  customers  or suppliers to be Year 2000 ready could
have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations, financial
position and cash flows.  The Company is unable to assess the extent or duration
of that impact at this time, but they could be substantial.

In 1997, the Company and its key subsidiaries  formed project teams comprised of
employees  and third  party  consultants  to identify  and resolve the  numerous
issues  surrounding  the Year 2000. The project  teams,  which are supervised by
members of senior management, regularly report their progress toward remediating
Year 2000 issues to management and the Company's  Board of Directors.  The areas
in which the project teams are focusing  most of their  efforts are  information
technology ("IT") systems,  non-IT systems,  and third party issues. The project
teams also provide comprehensive corporate tracking, coordination and monitoring
of all Year  2000  activities.  As part of  resolving  any  potential  Year 2000
issues,  the Company  expects  to:  identify  all  computer  systems,  products,
services and other systems  (including  systems  provided by third parties) that
must be modified;  evaluate the  alternatives  available to make any  identified
systems,   products  or  services  Year  2000  ready  (including   modification,
replacement or abandonment);  complete the modifications  and/or  replacement of
identified  systems;  and conduct adequate testing of the systems,  products and
services,  including  testing  of certain  key  systems  used by  various  North
American   railroads   and   interoperability   testing  with  clients  and  key
organizations in the financial services industry.


The  following  provides  a  summary  of  each  area  and  the  progress  toward
identifying and resolving Year 2000 issues:

     IT  Systems.  In the  Transportation  segment,  all IT  systems,  including
     mission critical  systems and  non-critical  systems have been analyzed and
     are in the process of being modified and tested for Year 2000 readiness. To
     date,   management   believes  that  approximately  99%  of  the  necessary
     remediation  and 94% of the testing has been completed.  Final  remediation
     and testing for certain non-critical support 



     systems has been completed and management  believes these systems are Year
     2000 ready.  Final  remediation and testing of mission  critical systems is
     scheduled for completion by the end of June 1999.

     In  addition,  the IT  hardware  and  software  necessary  to  operate  the
     mainframe  computer and associated  equipment are currently being evaluated
     for  Year  2000  issues.   A  compilation  of  the  hardware  and  software
     inventories was completed in 1998. The hardware and software, including the
     completion of integrated testing of the infrastructure software and network
     components, are expected to be Year 2000 ready by September 30, 1999.

     The IT systems  (including  mission  critical and significant  non-critical
     operating,  accounting and supporting  systems) and underlying hardware for
     the companies  comprising the Financial Services segment have been analyzed
     and are being  modified  and  tested  for Year 2000  readiness.  Management
     believes that approximately 70% of mission critical systems, and 75% of all
     systems,  have been tested and are  believed  to be Year 2000 ready.  Final
     remediation  and testing is expected to be  completed  by the end of second
     quarter 1999.

     Non-IT  Systems.  All equipment that contains an internal clock or embedded
     micro-processor  is being analyzed for Year 2000  readiness.  This includes
     PC's, software, fax machines, telephone systems, elevator systems, security
     and fire control systems,  locomotives,  signal and communications  systems
     and other miscellaneous equipment. Replacement and upgrades of this type of
     equipment is underway and expected to be completed for both segments of the
     Company by June 30, 1999.

     As of December 31, 1998,  management  believes that 53% of all PC's and 74%
     of related software in the  Transportation  companies were Year 2000 ready.
     In addition, all customized programs and external data interfaces are being
     evaluated, modified and tested for Year 2000 readiness, as are locomotives,
     signals and communication  systems and other equipment with internal clocks
     and embedded micro-processors.

     As of December 31, 1998,  approximately  60% of replacement  and/or upgrade
     efforts on the Financial Services hardware and software inventory have been
     completed.

     Third Party  Systems.  Both segments of the Company depend heavily on third
     party  systems in the  operation of their  businesses.  As part of the Year
     2000 project,  significant third party relationships are being evaluated to
     determine the status of their Year 2000 readiness and the potential  impact
     on the  Company's  operations  if those  significant  third parties fail to
     become  Year  2000  ready.   Questionnaires  have  been  sent  to  critical
     suppliers, major customers, key banking and financial institutions, utility
     providers and  interchange  railroads to determine the status of their Year
     2000 readiness.

     The  Transportation  companies are working with the Association of American
     Railroads ("AAR") and other AAR-member  railroads to coordinate the testing
     and  certification  of the systems  administered by the AAR. These systems,
     including interline settlement, shipment tracing and waybill processing are
     relied  on by a number of North  American  railroads  and their  customers.
     Initial  testing between  railroads  started during second quarter 1998 and
     these systems are expected to be Year 2000 ready on a timely basis.

     Similarly,  the Financial  Services  entities are  participating in various
     industry-wide  efforts  (e.g.,  trading  and  account  maintenance,   trade
     execution,   confirmation,   etc.)  to  facilitate  testing  of  Year  2000
     preparedness and reliability.  Additionally,  Janus and Berger are required
     to periodically  report to the SEC their progress with respect to Year 2000
     preparedness.

     Based  upon  the  responses  received  to the  questionnaires  and  ongoing
     discussions  with  these  third  parties,  the  Company  believes  that the
     majority of the significant customers,  banking and financial institutions,
     suppliers and  interchange  railroads are or will be Year 2000 ready in all
     material  respects by mid-1999.  The Company does not anticipate,  however,
     performing  significant  independent  testing procedures to verify that the
     information  received by the Company  from these third  parties is accurate



     (except for the above mentioned  industry-wide testing efforts).  For those
     third parties who have not responded or who have  expressed  uncertainty as
     to their Year 2000 readiness, management is exploring alternatives to limit
     the  impact  this  will  have on the  Company's  operations  and  financial
     results. The Company will continue to monitor its third party relationships
     for Year 2000 issues.

     DST, an approximate 32% owned equity investment,  provides various services
     to Janus and Berger.  DST has  completed  its review and  evaluation of its
     mission critical U.S. shareowner  accounting and U.S. portfolio  accounting
     related  products,  services  and  internal  systems  and  believes  it has
     achieved  material  Year 2000  readiness  in such  products,  services  and
     systems as of December 31, 1998. The Company anticipates internal readiness
     for all of its other mission critical systems and products by September 30,
     1999.  Additionally,  DST intends on testing its systems  with  clients and
     other third parties for Year 2000 related issues as needed throughout 1999.
     DST is developing  contingency plans for its U.S. shareowner accounting and
     U.S.  portfolio  accounting  business  units (with  testing  expected to be
     completed  by  June  30,  1999),  as  well as for  other  mission  critical
     products,   services  and  systems.  Formal  contingency  plans  for  DST's
     Winchester and Poindexter Data Centers have been completed.

Testing and  Documentation  Procedures.  All  material  modifications  to IT and
non-IT  systems are being  documented  and  maintained  by the project teams for
purposes of tracking  the Year 2000 project and as a part of the  Company's  due
diligence process. All modified systems have been or are in the process of being
tested for Year 2000  remediation,  unit acceptance,  system acceptance and user
acceptance. The testing procedures used and the results of these tests are being
documented and maintained as a part of the Year 2000 due diligence process.

The project teams meet  regularly to discuss their  progress and ensure that all
issues and problems are identified and properly  addressed.  Quarterly  meetings
are held with senior  management  to keep them  apprised of the  progress of the
Year 2000 project.

Year  2000  Risks.  The  Company  continues  to  evaluate  the  principal  risks
associated  with its IT and non-IT  systems,  as well as third party  systems if
they were not to be Year  2000  ready on a timely  basis.  Areas  that  could be
affected  include,  but are not limited to, the  ability  to:  accurately  track
pricing and trading information, obtain and process customer orders and investor
transactions,  properly  track and record  revenue  movements  (including  train
movements),  order and obtain  critical  supplies,  and  operate  equipment  and
control systems.  These risks are presently under assessment and the Company has
no basis to form an estimate of costs or lost revenues at this time.

The Company  believes,  however,  that the risks  involved  with the  successful
completion of its Year 2000 conversion  relate primarily to available  resources
and third party  readiness.  The key success  factors include the proper quality
and quantity of human and capital  resources to address the complexity and costs
of the project  tasks.  The Company has allocated  substantial  resources to the
Year 2000  project and  believes  that it is  adequately  staffed by  employees,
consultants and  contractors.  The inability to complete Year 2000 readiness for
the computer systems of the Company could result in significant  difficulties in
processing and completing fundamental transactions.

In  addition,  the  Company  is taking  precautions  to ensure  its third  party
relationships  have  been  adequately  addressed.  Based on work  performed  and
information received to date, the Company believes its key suppliers,  customers
and other  significant third party  relationships  will be prepared for the Year
2000  in all  material  respects  within  an  acceptable  time  frame  (or  that
acceptable alternatives will be available);  however,  management of the Company
makes no  assurances  that all such  parties  will be Year 2000 ready  within an
acceptable time frame.

In the event that the Company or key third parties are not Year 2000 ready,  the
Company's  results of  operations,  financial  position  and cash flows could be
materially adversely affected.



Contingency  Plans.  The  Company  and its  subsidiaries  are in the  process of
identifying  alternative  plans in the event  that the Year 2000  project is not
completed on a timely  basis or otherwise  does not meet  anticipated  needs.  A
business contingency planning specialist was hired by KCSR and is working on the
contingency  plans  for  critical  business  processes.   Similarly,  consulting
professionals have been utilized by Janus,  Berger and Nelson in connection with
Year 2000 efforts,  including contingency  planning.  The Company is also making
alternative  arrangements  in the  event  that  critical  suppliers,  customers,
utility  providers and other  significant third parties are not Year 2000 ready.
The contingency planning process is scheduled to be completed by July 1999.

In addition,  information  system  black out periods have been  scheduled at the
various Company  subsidiaries,  generally from third quarter 1999 through second
quarter  2000.  During this period,  the project  team and other  members of the
information  systems  group  will  focus all of their  efforts  and time  toward
addressing   Year   2000   related   issues.   No  new   project   requests   or
hardware/software upgrades will be allowed during this time.

Year 2000 Costs. To date, the Company has spent  approximately  $10.9 million in
connection with ensuring that all Company and subsidiary  computer  programs are
compatible with Year 2000  requirements.  In addition,  the Company  anticipates
future  spending of  approximately  $11 million in connection with this process.
Current accounting principles require all costs associated with Year 2000 issues
to be  expensed  as  incurred.  A portion  of these  costs will not result in an
increase in expense to the Company because existing  employees and equipment are
being used to complete the project.


Financial Instruments and Purchase Commitments. During 1995, the Company entered
into a forward  stock  purchase  contract as a means of  securing a  potentially
favorable  price for the  repurchase of six million  shares of its common stock.
During  1997  and  1996,  the  Company  purchased  2.4 and 3.6  million  shares,
respectively,  under this  contract at an aggregate  cost of $39 and $56 million
(including transaction premium), respectively.

From time to time, KCSR enters into forward purchase commitments for diesel fuel
as a means of securing volumes and reducing overall cost. The contracts normally
require KCSR to purchase  certain  quantities  of diesel fuel at defined  prices
established  at the  origination  of  the  contract.  As  noted  earlier,  these
commitments saved KCSR approximately $3.7 million in operating expenses in 1996.
Minimal  commitments  were  negotiated for 1997 because of higher fuel costs. At
the end of 1997,  KCSR entered  into  purchase  commitments  for diesel fuel for
approximately  27% of 1998 expected usage. As a result of fuel prices  remaining
below the committed price during 1998, these purchase  commitments resulted in a
higher cost in 1998 of approximately $1.7 million.

KCSR has a program to hedge against fluctuations in the price of its diesel fuel
purchases. Beginning in 1998, KCSR entered into fuel swaps for approximately two
million gallons per month, or 37% of its anticipated 1998 fuel requirements. The
fuel swap  contracts  had  expiration  dates  through  February 28, 1999 and are
correlated to market  benchmarks.  Hedge  positions are monitored to ensure that
they will not exceed actual fuel  requirements in any period.  During 1998, KCSR
made  payments  of  approximately  $2.3  million  relating  to these  fuel  swap
transactions  as a result of actual  fuel prices  remaining  lower than the fuel
swap price.

As of  December  31,  1998,  KCSR has  entered  into  purchase  commitments  for
approximately  32% of its  expected  1999 usage and has  entered  into fuel swap
transactions  for  approximately  16% of its  expected  1999 fuel  usage.  These
transactions  are intended to mitigate the impact of rising fuel prices and will
be  recorded  using  hedge  accounting  policies  as set  forth in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements of this Form 10-K.

In general,  the Company enters into  transactions such as those discussed above
in  limited  situations  based on  management's  assessment  of  current  market
conditions  and  perceived  risks.  Historically,  the  Company has engaged in a
limited  number of such  transactions  and their impact has been  insignificant.



However,  the  Company  intends  to  respond  to  evolving  business  and market
conditions in order to manage risks and exposures  associated with the Company's
various  operations,  and in doing so,  may enter into  transactions  similar to
those discussed above.


Foreign Exchange Matters.  In connection with the Company's  investment in Grupo
TFM, a Mexican company,  and Nelson,  an 80% owned subsidiary with operations in
the United  Kingdom,  matters  arise with  respect to financial  accounting  and
reporting for foreign currency transactions and for translating foreign currency
financial  statements into U.S.  dollars.  The Company follows the  requirements
outlined in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52 "Foreign Currency
Translation" ("SFAS 52"), and related authoritative guidance.

The  purchase  price  paid by Grupo TFM for 80% of the  common  stock of TFM was
fixed in Mexican pesos;  accordingly,  Grupo TFM was exposed to  fluctuations in
the U.S.  dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate. In the event that the proceeds from
the various  financing  arrangements  did not provide funds sufficient for Grupo
TFM to complete the purchase of TFM, the Company may have been  required to make
additional capital contributions to Grupo TFM. Accordingly,  in order to hedge a
portion of the Company's  exposure to  fluctuations  in the value of the Mexican
peso versus the U.S.  dollar,  the Company  entered  into two  separate  forward
contracts  to purchase  Mexican  pesos - $98  million in February  1997 and $100
million in March 1997. In April 1997, the Company realized a $3.8 million pretax
gain in  connection  with these  contracts.  This gain was deferred and has been
accounted  for as a component of the Company's  investment  in Grupo TFM.  These
contracts  were  intended  to hedge  only a portion  of the  Company's  exposure
related  to the  final  installment  of the  purchase  price  and not any  other
transactions or balances.

During 1997 and 1998,  Mexico's economy was classified as "highly  inflationary"
as  defined in SFAS 52.  Accordingly,  the U.S.  dollar was  assumed to be Grupo
TFM's functional currency,  and any gains or losses from translating Grupo TFM's
financial statements into U.S. dollars were included in the determination of its
net income.  Equity losses from Grupo TFM included in the  Company's  results of
operations reflect the Company's share of such translation gains and losses.

Effective  January 1, 1999,  the SEC staff declared that Mexico should no longer
be considered a highly inflationary economy.  Accordingly, the Company is in the
process of  performing  an analysis  under the  guidance of SFAS 52 to determine
whether  the U.S.  dollar or the Mexican  peso should be used as the  functional
currency for financial  accounting and reporting purposes for periods subsequent
to December 31, 1998.  Information for this analysis is currently being compiled
and  reviewed.  Management  expects to complete  this analysis by the end of the
first quarter 1999. If the peso is determined to be the  appropriate  functional
currency,  the effect of translating Grupo TFM's 1999 financial statements could
have a material  impact on the  Company's  results of  operations  and financial
position.

The  Company  completed  its  acquisition  of 80% of Nelson  on April 20,  1998.
Nelson's  principal  operations  are in the United Kingdom and,  therefore,  its
financial statements are accounted for using the British pound as the functional
currency.  Any gains or losses arising from  transactions not denominated in the
British  pound are recorded as a foreign  currency  gain or loss and included in
the results of  operations  of Nelson.  The  translation  of Nelson's  financial
statements  from the British pound into the U.S. dollar results in an adjustment
to stockholders' equity as a cumulative translation adjustment.  At December 31,
1998, the cumulative translation adjustment was not material.

The  Company  continues  to  evaluate  existing  alternatives  with  respect  to
utilizing  foreign currency  instruments to hedge its U.S. dollar  investment in
Grupo TFM and Nelson as market conditions change or exchange rates fluctuate. At
December 31,  1998,  the Company had no  outstanding  foreign  currency  hedging
instruments.



New Accounting Pronouncements.  In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board  ("FASB")  issued  Statement of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 133
"Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities"  ("SFAS 133").
SFAS 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative financial
instruments,   including  certain  derivative   instruments  embedded  in  other
contracts,   and  for  hedging  activities.   It  requires  recognition  of  all
derivatives as either assets or liabilities  measured at fair value. SFAS 133 is
effective for all fiscal  quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999
and should not be retroactively applied to financial statements of periods prior
to adoption.

KCSR  currently  has a program  to hedge  against  fluctuations  in the price of
diesel fuel purchases,  and also enters into fuel purchase commitments from time
to time.  In  addition,  the Company  continues  to evaluate  alternatives  with
respect to  utilizing  foreign  currency  instruments  to hedge its U.S.  dollar
investments  in Grupo TFM and  Nelson as market  conditions  change or  exchange
rates  fluctuate.  Currently,  the Company has no outstanding  foreign  currency
hedges. The Company is reviewing the provisions of SFAS 133 and expects adoption
by the required  date.  The adoption of SFAS 133 with respect to existing  hedge
transactions is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's  results
of operations, financial position or cash flows.

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 132 "Employers' Disclosure about
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits - an amendment of FASB Statements No.
87, 88, and 106" ("SFAS  132") was adopted by the Company in 1998 and prior year
information  has been  included  pursuant  to SFAS  132.  SFAS  132  establishes
standardized  disclosure  requirements  for  pension  and  other  postretirement
benefit  plans,  requires  additional  information  on  changes  in the  benefit
obligations and fair values of plan assets, and eliminates  certain  disclosures
that are no longer  useful.  The  standard  does not change the  measurement  or
recognition of pension or postretirement benefit plans. The adoption of SFAS 132
did not have a material impact on the Company's disclosures.

In 1998, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards  No. 131  "Disclosures  about  Segments of an  Enterprise  and Related
Information"  ("SFAS  131").  SFAS 131  establishes  standards for the manner in
which public business enterprises report information about operating segments in
annual  financial  statements  and requires  disclosure of selected  information
about operating  segments in interim  financial  reports issued to shareholders.
SFAS 131 also establishes  standards for related  disclosures about products and
services, geographic areas and major customers. The adoption of SFAS 131 did not
have a material  impact on the  disclosures  of the Company.  Segment  financial
information  is  included in Note 13,  Industry  Segments,  to the  consolidated
financial  statements  included  under  Item 8 of this Form 10-K and prior  year
information has been restated according to the provisions of SFAS 131.

Effective  January 1, 1998,  the Company  adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 130 "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income" ("SFAS
130"), which establishes standards for reporting and disclosure of comprehensive
income and its components in the financial  statements.  Prior year  information
has been included pursuant to SFAS 130. The Company's other comprehensive income
consists  primarily of unrealized  gains and losses relating to investments held
as "available for sale"  securities as defined by SFAS 115. The Company  records
its  proportionate  share of any  unrealized  gains or losses  related  to these
investments, net of deferred taxes, in stockholders' equity as accumulated other
comprehensive income. The unrealized gain related to these investments increased
$40.3 million, $42.6 million and $30.1 million ($24.1 million, $25.9 million and
$18.5  million,  net of deferred  taxes) for the years ended  December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.

In Issue No. 96-16,  the Emerging  Issues Task Force ("EITF 96-16") of the FASB,
reached a consensus that substantive  minority rights which provide the minority
shareholder with the right to effectively control  significant  decisions in the
ordinary  course of an  investee's  business  could impact  whether the majority
shareholder should consolidate the investee.  Management evaluated the rights of
the minority shareholders of its consolidated subsidiaries.  Application of EITF
96-16 did not affect the Company's consolidated financial statements.



In 1998,  the Company  adopted the  guidance  outlined in American  Institute of
Certified  Public  Accountant's  Statement of Position 98-1  "Accounting for the
Costs of Computer Software  Developed or Obtained for Internal Use" (SOP 98-1").
SOP 98-1 requires  that  computer  software  costs  incurred in the  preliminary
project  stage,  as well as  training  and  maintenance  costs  be  expensed  as
incurred.  This guidance also requires that direct and indirect costs associated
with the application  development  stage of internal use software be capitalized
until such time that the  software is  substantially  complete and ready for its
intended  use.  Capitalized  costs are to be amortized on a straight  line basis
over the useful life of the software. The adoption of this guidance did not have
a material impact on the Company's results of operations,  financial position or
cash flows.


Litigation.  The Company and its  subsidiaries  are  involved  as  plaintiff  or
defendant in various  legal  actions  arising in the normal  course of business.
While the  ultimate  outcome of the  various  legal  proceedings  involving  the
Company and its  subsidiaries  cannot be  predicted  with  certainty,  it is the
opinion of management (after consultation with legal counsel) that the Company's
litigation  reserves are adequate and that these legal actions currently are not
material  to the  Company's  consolidated  results of  operations  or  financial
position. The following outlines two significant ongoing cases:

Duncan case
In 1998, a jury in Beauregard Parish,  Louisiana returned a verdict against KCSR
in the amount of $16.3 million.  This Louisiana state case arose from a railroad
crossing accident which occurred at Oretta,  Louisiana on September 11, 1994, in
which three individuals were injured. Of the three, one was injured fatally, one
was rendered quadriplegic and the third suffered less serious injuries.

Subsequent  to the  verdict,  the  trial  court  held that the  plaintiffs  were
entitled to interest on the judgment from the date the suit was filed, dismissed
the verdict  against one defendant and reallocated the amount of that verdict to
the remaining  defendants.  The resulting total judgment against KCSR,  together
with interest, was $25.4 million as of December 31, 1998.

The judgment has been appealed and  independent  trial counsel has informed KCSR
management that the evidence presented at trial established no negligent conduct
on the part of KCSR and expressed confidence that the verdict will ultimately be
reversed.  KCSR management believes it has meritorious defenses in this case and
that it will  ultimately  prevail  in  appeal.  If the  verdict  were to  stand,
however,  the judgment and interest are in excess of existing insurance coverage
and could  have an  adverse  effect on the  Company's  consolidated  results  of
operations and financial position.

Bogalusa Cases
In July  1996,  KCSR was  named as one of  twenty-seven  defendants  in  various
lawsuits in Louisiana and  Mississippi  arising from the explosion of a rail car
loaded with chemicals in Bogalusa, Louisiana on October 23, 1995. As a result of
the  explosion,  nitrogen  dioxide and oxides of nitrogen were released into the
atmosphere over parts of that town and the surrounding area causing  evacuations
and injuries.  Approximately  25,000 residents of Louisiana and Mississippi have
asserted  claims  to  recover  damages  allegedly  caused  by  exposure  to  the
chemicals.

KCSR neither  owned nor leased the rail car or the rails on which it was located
at the time of the explosion in Bogalusa.  KCSR did, however,  move the rail car
from Jackson to Vicksburg,  Mississippi, where it was loaded with chemicals, and
back to Jackson  where the car was  tendered to the IC. The  explosion  occurred
more than 15 days after the Company last  transported  the rail car. The car was
loaded by the shipper in excess of its standard  weight when it was  transported
by the Company to interchange with the IC.

The Mississippi lawsuit arising from the chemical release has now been scheduled
for trial in late March 1999. KCSR sought  dismissal of these suits in the state
appellate  courts,  and ultimately in the United States  Supreme Court,  but was
unsuccessful in obtaining the relief sought.



KCSR  believes  that its  exposure to  liability  in these cases is remote.  If,
however,  KCSR were to be found liable for punitive damages in these cases, such
a judgment could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and
financial position of the Company.


Environmental  Matters.  The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are subject
to extensive  regulation under environmental  protection laws concerning,  among
other  things,  discharges  to waters  and the  generation,  handling,  storage,
transportation  and disposal of waste and other  materials  where  environmental
risks are inherent.  In  particular,  the Company is subject to various laws and
certain  legislation   including,   among  others,  the  Federal   Comprehensive
Environmental Response,  Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA," also known as
the  Superfund  law),  the Toxic  Substances  Control  Act,  the  Federal  Water
Pollution  Control Act, and the  Hazardous  Materials  Transportation  Act. This
legislation  generally  imposes  joint and  several  liability  for clean up and
enforcement costs,  without regard to fault or legality of the original conduct,
on current and predecessor  owners and operators of a site. The Company does not
foresee  that  compliance  with the  requirements  imposed by the  environmental
legislation  will impair its  competitive  capability  or result in any material
additional  capital  expenditures,  operating or maintenance  costs.  As part of
serving  the  petroleum  and  chemicals  industry,   KCSR  transports  hazardous
materials and has a Shreveport,  Louisiana-based  hazardous  materials emergency
team available to handle environmental issues which might occur in the transport
of such  materials.  Additionally,  the  Company  performs  ongoing  review  and
evaluation  of the  various  environmental  issues  that arise in the  Company's
operations,  and, as necessary, takes actions to limit the Company's exposure to
potential liability.

In November 1997, representatives of KCSR met with representatives of the United
States  Environmental  Protection Agency ("EPA") at the site of two,  contiguous
pieces of property in North Baton  Rouge,  Louisiana,  abandoned  leaseholds  of
Western  Petrochemicals  and Export Drum. These properties had been the subjects
of voluntary  clean up prior to the EPA's  involvement.  The site visit prompted
KCSR to  obtain  from the  EPA,  through  the  Freedom  of  Information  Act,  a
"Preliminary Assessment Report" concerning the properties,  dated January, 1995,
and directing a "Site  Investigation." The EPA's November 1997 visit to the site
was the start of that "Site Investigation." During the November 1997 site visit,
the EPA  indicated  it  intended  to  recover,  through  litigation,  all of its
investigation  and  remediation  costs.  At  KCSR's  request,   the  EPA  agreed
informally to suspend its  investigation  pending an exchange of information and
negotiation  of KCSR's  participation  in the "Site  Investigation."  Based upon
advice  subsequently  received from the Inactive and Abandoned Sites Division of
the  Louisiana  Department  of  Environmental  Quality  ("LADEQ"),  KCSR will be
allowed to undertake the investigation and remediation of the site,  pursuant to
the LADEQ's guidelines and oversight. The EPA's and LADEQ's involvement, and the
investigation  and  remediation of the sites  pursuant to LADEQ's  oversight and
guidelines,  will increase the ultimate costs to KCSR beyond those  anticipated.
However,  those  additional  costs are not expected to have a material impact on
the Company's consolidated results of operations or financial position.

As previously reported, KCSR has been named as a "potentially responsible party"
by the Louisiana  Department of Environmental  Quality in a state  environmental
proceeding,  Louisiana  Department  of  Environmental  Quality,  Docket  No. IAS
88-0001-A, involving a location near Bossier City, Louisiana, which was the site
of a wood preservative  treatment plant (Lincoln  Creosoting).  KCSR is a former
owner of part of the land in question. This matter was the subject of a trial in
the U.S.  District  Court in Shreveport,  Louisiana  which was concluded in July
1993. The court found that Joslyn Manufacturing Company ("Joslyn"),  an operator
of the plant,  was and is required to indemnify KCSR for damages  arising out of
plant operations. (KCSR's potential liability is as a property owner rather than
as a generator or  transporter  of  contaminants.)  The case was appealed to the
U.S.  Court of Appeals  for the Fifth  Circuit,  which Court  affirmed  the U.S.
District Court ruling in favor of KCSR.

In early 1994, the EPA added the Lincoln  Creosoting site to its CERCLA national
priority  list.  Since major  remedial  work has been  performed at this site by
Joslyn,  and KCSR has been held by the Federal District and Appeals Courts to be
entitled to indemnity for such costs, it would appear that KCSR should not incur



significant remedial liability. At this time, it is not possible to evaluate the
potential consequences of further remediation at the site.

The Louisiana  Department of Transportation  ("LDOT") has sued KCSR and a number
of other  defendants in Louisiana state court to recover clean up costs incurred
by LDOT  while  constructing  Interstate  Highway  49 at  Shreveport,  Louisiana
(Louisiana  Department of  Transportation  v. The Kansas City  Southern  Railway
Company,  et al., Case No. 417190-B in the First Judicial District Court,  Caddo
Parish,  Louisiana).  The clean up was associated with an old oil refinery site,
operated by the other named  defendants.  KCSR's main line was  adjacent to that
site,  and KCSR  was  included  in the  suit  because  LDOT  claims  that a 1966
derailment on the adjacent track released  hazardous  substances  onto the site.
However, there is evidence that the derailment occurred on the side of the track
opposite  from  the  refinery  site.   Furthermore,   there  appears  to  be  no
relationship  between  the  lading on the  derailed  train and any  contaminants
identified  at the  site.  Therefore,  management  believes  that the  Company's
exposure is limited.

In another proceeding, Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, Docket No.
IE-0-91-0001,  KCSR was named as a party in the alleged contamination of Capitol
Lake in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. During 1994, the list of potentially responsible
parties was  significantly  expanded to include the State of Louisiana,  and the
City and Parish of Baton  Rouge,  among  others.  Studies  commissioned  by KCSR
indicate  that  contaminants  contained in the lake were not  generated by KCSR.
Management  and  counsel do not  believe  this  proceeding  will have a material
effect on the Company.

In the Ilada Superfund Site located in East Cape Girardeau, Ill., KCSR was cited
for  furnishing one carload of used oil to this  petroleum  recycling  facility.
Counsel  advises  that  KCSR's  liability,  if any,  should  fall within the "de
minimus" provisions of the Superfund law, representing minimal exposure.

The Mississippi  Department of Environmental Quality ("MDEQ") initiated a demand
on all railroads operating in Mississippi to clean up their refueling facilities
and investigate any soil and groundwater  impacts  resulting from past refueling
activities. KCSR has six facilities located in Mississippi. KCSR has developed a
plan,  together  with the State of  Mississippi,  that will  satisfy  the MDEQ's
initiative.  Estimated  costs to complete the studies and  expected  remediation
have been provided for in the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements and
the  resolution  is not  expected  to have a  material  impact on the  Company's
consolidated results of operations or financial position.

The  Illinois  Environmental  Protection  Agency  ("IEPA")  has sued the Gateway
Western for alleged violations of state  environmental laws relating to the 1997
spill of methyl isobutyl  carbinol in the East St. Louis yard.  During switching
operations a tank car carrying this  chemical was  punctured  and  approximately
18,000  gallons  were  released.  Emergency  clean-up and removal of liquids and
contaminated  soils occurred within two weeks and remaining residues of carbinol
in the soil and shallow groundwater were confined almost entirely to the Gateway
Western property.  Remediation continues and progress is reported to the IEPA on
a quarterly  basis and will  continue  until IEPA clean-up  standards  have been
achieved. Remediation is expected to be completed in the year 2000 and estimated
costs have been provided for in the Company's consolidated financial statements.
The parties reached a tentative negotiated settlement of the lawsuit in November
1998, which provides that the Gateway Western pay a penalty and further, that it
fund a Supplemental  Environmental Project in St. Claire County,  Illinois.  The
clean-up  costs and the  settlement  of the lawsuit  are not  expected to have a
material impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations or financial
position.

The Company  has  recorded  liabilities  with  respect to various  environmental
issues,  which represent its best estimates of remediation and restoration costs
that may be required to comply with  present laws and  regulations.  At December
31, 1998,  these recorded  liabilities  were not material.  Although these costs
cannot be  predicted  with  certainty,  management  believes  that the  ultimate
outcome of  identified  matters will not have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company's consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.



Regulatory Influence. In addition to the environmental agencies mentioned above,
KCSR operations are regulated by the STB, various state regulatory agencies, and
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration  ("OSHA"). Prior to January 1,
1996,  the  Interstate   Commerce   Commission  ("ICC")  had  jurisdiction  over
interstate rates charged, routes, service,  issuance or guarantee of securities,
extension or abandonment of rail lines, and consolidation, merger or acquisition
of control of rail common carriers.  As of January 1, 1996,  Congress  abolished
the ICC and  transferred  regulatory  responsibility  to the STB. State agencies
regulate some aspects of rail  operations  with respect to health and safety and
in some instances,  intrastate freight rates. OSHA has jurisdiction over certain
health and safety features of railroad operations.

KCSR  expects  its  railroad  operations  to be subject  to future  requirements
regulating  exhaust  emissions  from diesel  locomotives  that may  increase its
operating costs. During 1995 the EPA issued proposed  regulations  applicable to
locomotive engines. These regulations, which were issued as final in early 1998,
will be  effective  in  stages  for  new or  remanufactured  locomotive  engines
installed  after  year  2000.  KCSR  has  reviewed  these  new  regulations  and
management does not expect that compliance  with these  regulations  will have a
material impact on the Company's results of operations.

Financial   Services   businesses   are  subject  to  a  variety  of  regulatory
requirements  including,  but not limited to, the rules and  regulations  of the
U.S.  Securities  and Exchange  Commission  and the  guidelines set forth by the
National Association of Securities Dealers.

The Company does not foresee that  compliance with the  requirements  imposed by
these  agencies'  standards  under present  statutes will impair its competitive
capability or result in any material effect on results of operations.


Inflation.  Inflation  has  not  had  a  significant  impact  on  the  Company's
operations in the past three years.  Generally  accepted  accounting  principles
require the use of historical costs.  Replacement cost and related  depreciation
expense  of the  Company's  property  would  be  substantially  higher  than the
historical  costs  reported.  Any  increase in expenses  from these fixed costs,
coupled with variable  cost  increases due to  significant  inflation,  would be
difficult to recover through price increases given the competitive  environments
of the Company's  principal  subsidiaries.  See "Foreign Exchange Matters" above
with respect to inflation in Mexico.


Strategic Review. The Company's  management is responsible for the management of
the Company's  primary assets - investments in subsidiaries  and affiliates,  as
described  in detail  in Item 1,  Business,  of this  Form  10-K and in  "Recent
Developments" and "Results of Operations" above. Accordingly,  management of the
Company  continually  evaluates  how to utilize the  strength  of the  Company's
business lines and capabilities,  provide for future growth  opportunities,  and
achieve the Company's  financial  objectives.  This process has resulted in many
significant actions,  including: the acquisition of Nelson in April of 1998; the
Company's  investment  and  involvement in the Mexican rail  privatization;  the
December 1996 Gateway  Western  acquisition;  the October 1996 Southern  Capital
joint venture transactions; and the common stock repurchase program.

The Company's announcement to separate its Transportation and Financial Services
segments  continues this process. A separation of the two segments would provide
the management of each segment the opportunity to focus on maximizing  potential
as stand-alone entities.

1996  through  1998 have been,  and  future  years  will be,  affected  by these
strategic  activities.  Management's  analysis and  evaluation  of the Company's
strategic  alternatives are expected to continue to present growth opportunities
in future years.





Item 7(A).        QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company utilizes various financial instruments which entail certain inherent
market  risks.  Generally,  these  instruments  have not been  entered  into for
trading purposes. The following information,  together with information included
in Item 7,  Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and
Results  of  Operations  and  Notes  11  and 13 to  the  Company's  consolidated
financial  statements  in this Form 10-K,  describe  the key  aspects of certain
financial instruments which have market risk to the Company.


Interest Rate Sensitivity



At December 31, 1998,  the  Company's  floating-rate  indebtedness  totaled $343
million. A hypothetical 100 basis points increase in the LIBOR rate would result
in additional  interest expense of  approximately  $3.4 million on an annualized
basis for the floating-rate indebtedness.

Based upon the  borrowing  rates  currently  available  to the  Company  and its
subsidiaries for  indebtedness  with similar terms and average  maturities,  the
fair value of  long-term  debt was  approximately  $867  million at December 31,
1998.

The Company believes the mix of floating and fixed rate indebtedness contributes
to mitigating interest rate risk.


Commodity Price Sensitivity

KCSR has a program to hedge against fluctuations in the price of its diesel fuel
purchases.  This program is primarily completed using various swap transactions.
These swap  transactions  are  typically  based on the price of heating  oil #2,
which the Company  believes to produce a reasonable  correlation to the price of
diesel fuel. These  transactions are generally  settled monthly in cash with the
counterparty.

Additionally,  from time to time, KCSR enters into forward purchase  commitments
for diesel  fuel as a means of securing  volumes at  competitive  prices.  These
contracts  normally require the Company to purchase defined quantities of diesel
fuel at prices established at the origination of the contract.

The table below provides  information  about the various diesel fuel instruments
that are sensitive to fluctuations  in commodity  prices.  The weighted  average
contract prices  presented below do not include taxes,  transportation  costs or
other incremental fuel handling costs.





The  unrecognized  loss  related to the diesel  fuel swaps  based on the average
price of heating oil #2 approximated $1.2 million at December 31, 1998.

At December  31,  1998,  the  Company  held fuel  inventories  for use in normal
operations.  These  inventories  were  not  material  to the  Company's  overall
financial position.


Foreign Exchange Sensitivity

The Company owns an approximate 37% interest in Grupo Transportacion Ferroviaria
Mexicana,  S.A. de C.V.  ("Grupo TFM"),  incorporated in Mexico.  Also, in April
1998, the Company acquired 80% of Nelson Money Managers plc ("Nelson"), a United
Kingdom  based  financial  services   corporation.   In  connection  with  these
investments,  matters arise with respect to financial  accounting  and reporting
for foreign currency transactions and for translating foreign currency financial
statements  into  U.S.   dollars.   Therefore,   the  Company  has  exposure  to
fluctuations in the value of the Mexican peso and the British pound.

During 1997 and 1998,  Mexico's economy was classified as "highly  inflationary"
as defined in  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 52  "Foreign
Currency Translation" ("SFAS 52").  Accordingly,  the U.S. dollar was assumed to
be Grupo TFM's  functional  currency,  and any gains or losses from  translating
Grupo  TFM's  financial  statements  into  U.S.  dollars  are  included  in  the
determination  of its net  income.  Equity  earnings  or losses  from  Grupo TFM
included in the Company's  results of operations  reflect the Company's share of
such translation gains and losses.

Effective  January 1, 1999,  the SEC staff declared that Mexico should no longer
be considered a highly inflationary economy.  Accordingly, the Company is in the
process of  performing  an analysis  under the  guidance of SFAS 52 to determine
whether  the U.S.  dollar or the Mexican  peso should be used as the  functional
currency for financial  accounting and reporting purposes subsequent to December
31,  1998.  Information  for this  analysis  is  currently  being  compiled  and
reviewed.  Management  expects to complete this analysis by the end of the first
quarter  1999.  If the  peso  is  determined  to be the  appropriate  functional
currency,  the effect of translating Grupo TFM's 1999 financial  statements from
the peso to the U.S.  dollar  could  have a  material  impact  on the  Company's
results of operations and financial position.

With respect to Nelson,  as the relative  price of the British pound  fluctuates
versus the U.S.  dollar,  the Company's  proportionate  share of the earnings or
losses of Nelson is affected.  The  following  table  provides an example of the
potential impact of a 10% change in the price of the British pound assuming that
Nelson has earnings of $1,000 and using its  ownership  interest at December 31,
1998. The British pound is Nelson's functional currency.






The impact of changes in exchange  rates on the balance sheet are reflected in a
cumulative  translation  adjustment  account  as a  part  of  accumulated  other
comprehensive income and do not affect earnings.

While not currently  utilizing  foreign  currency  instruments to hedge its U.S.
dollar  investments in Grupo TFM and Nelson,  the Company  continues to evaluate
existing alternatives as market conditions and exchange rates fluctuate.


Available for Sale Investment Sensitivity

Both Janus and Berger  invest a portion of the  revenues  earned from  providing
investment  advisory  services in various of their  respective  sponsored funds.
These  investments are classified as available for sale  securities  pursuant to
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 115  "Accounting  for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities."  Accordingly,  these investments are
carried in the Company's  consolidated financial statements at fair market value
and are subject to the investment  performance of the underlying sponsored fund.
Any unrealized gain or loss is recognized upon the sale of the investment.

Additionally,  DST, a 32% owned  equity  investment,  holds  available  for sale
investments which may affect the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements.
Similarly to the Janus and Berger securities, any changes to the market value of
the DST  available  for sale  investments  are  reflected,  net of tax, in DST's
"accumulated  comprehensive  income" component of its equity.  Accordingly,  the
Company records its proportionate share of this amount as part of the investment
in DST.  While these  changes in market value do not result in any impact to the
Company's consolidated results of operations currently,  upon disposition by DST
of these  investments,  the Company will record its  proportionate  share of the
gain or loss as a component of equity earnings.


Equity Price Sensitivity

As noted above,  the Company owns 32% of DST, a publicly traded  company.  While
changes  in the  market  price  of  DST  are  not  reflected  in  the  Company's
consolidated  results of operation or  financial  position,  they may affect the
perceived  value of the  Company's  common stock.  Specifically,  the DST market
value  at  any  given  point  in  time  multiplied  by the  Company's  ownership
percentage  provides an amount,  which when divided by the outstanding number of
KCSI common shares,  derives a per share "value" presumably  attributable to the
Company's investment in DST. Fluctuations in this "value" as a result of changes
in the DST market price may affect the Company's stock price.



The revenues earned by Janus,  Berger and Nelson are dependent on the underlying
assets under management in the funds to which investment  advisory  services are
provided.  The portfolio of investments  included in these various funds include
combinations   of  equity,   bond,   annuity  and  other  types  of  securities.
Fluctuations  in the  value of  these  various  securities  are  common  and are
generated by numerous factors,  including,  among others, market volatility, the
overall  economy,  inflation,  changes in investor  strategies,  availability of
alternative investment vehicles, and others. Accordingly, declines in any one or
a combination of these factors, or other factors not separately identified,  may
reduce the value of investment  securities  and, in turn, the underlying  assets
under management on which Financial Services revenues are earned.






Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Index to Financial Statements
                                                                    Page

Management Report on Responsibility for Financial Reporting.......   61

Financial Statements:

     Report of Independent Accountants............................   61
     Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive
       Income for the three years ended December 31, 1998.........   62
     Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1998
       1997 and 1996..............................................   63
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three
       years ended December 31, 1998..............................   64
     Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders'
       Equity for the three years ended December 31, 1998.........   65
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...................   66

Financial Statement Schedules:

     All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, insignificant or
     the required information is shown in the consolidated  financial statements
     or notes thereto.

     The consolidated  financial statements and related notes, together with the
     Report of Independent Accountants, of DST Systems, Inc. (an approximate 32%
     owned  affiliate of the Company  accounted for under the equity method) for
     the year ended  December 31,  1998,  which are included in the DST Systems,
     Inc.  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the year  ended  December  31,  1998
     (Commission  File No. 1-14036) have been  incorporated by reference in this
     Form 10-K as Exhibit 99.1.





Management Report on Responsibility for Financial Reporting

The accompanying  consolidated  financial statements and related notes of Kansas
City Southern Industries,  Inc. and its subsidiaries were prepared by management
in conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles  appropriate in the
circumstances.  In  preparing  the  financial  statements,  management  has made
judgments and estimates based on currently available information.  Management is
responsible  for  not  only  the  financial  information,  but  also  all  other
information  in this  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K.  Representations  contained
elsewhere  in  this  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  are  consistent   with  the
consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto.

The Company has a formalized system of internal  accounting controls designed to
provide reasonable  assurance that assets are safeguarded and that its financial
records are reliable.  Management  monitors the system for  compliance,  and the
Company's  internal auditors measure its  effectiveness  and recommend  possible
improvements  thereto.  In addition,  as part of their audit of the consolidated
financial statements, the Company's independent accountants, who are selected by
the  stockholders,  review  and  test  the  internal  accounting  controls  on a
selective basis to establish the extent of their reliance thereon in determining
the nature, extent and timing of audit tests to be applied.

The Board of  Directors  pursues  its  oversight  role in the area of  financial
reporting and internal  accounting  control  through its Audit  Committee.  This
committee, composed solely of non-management directors, meets regularly with the
independent accountants,  management and internal auditors to monitor the proper
discharge of  responsibilities  relative to internal  accounting controls and to
evaluate the quality of external financial reporting.

Report of Independent Accountants

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc.

In our opinion,  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets and the related
consolidated  statements of operations and  comprehensive  income, of changes in
stockholders' equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects,
the  financial  position  of  Kansas  City  Southern  Industries,  Inc.  and its
subsidiaries  at  December  31,  1998,  1997 and 1996,  and the results of their
operations  and their cash flows for the years  then  ended in  conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles.  These financial  statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management;  our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these  financial  statements  based on our audits.  We conducted  our
audits of these  statements  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain  reasonable
assurance   about  whether  the  financial   statements  are  free  of  material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the  amounts  and  disclosures  in  the  financial  statements,   assessing  the
accounting  principles  used and significant  estimates made by management,  and
evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

As  discussed  in Note 1 to the  consolidated  financial  statements,  effective
December   31,  1997  the  Company   changed  its  method  of   evaluating   the
recoverability of goodwill. We concur with the change in accounting.


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Kansas City, Missouri
March 4, 1999







              See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.






        See  accompanying  notes to consolidated financial statements.








     See  accompanying  notes to consolidated financial statements.








     See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                      KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies

Kansas City  Southern  Industries,  Inc.  ("Company" or "KCSI") is a diversified
company  which  reports its  financial  information  in two  business  segments:
Transportation and Financial Services.  Note 13 further describes the operations
of the Company.

Kansas  City  Southern  Lines,   Inc.   ("KCSL")  is  the  holding  company  for
Transportation segment subsidiaries and affiliates. This segment includes, among
others,  The Kansas City Southern Railway Company ("KCSR"),  the Gateway Western
Railway Company  ("Gateway  Western"),  and strategic joint venture interests in
Grupo Transportacion Ferroviaria Mexicana, S.A de C.V. ("Grupo TFM"), which owns
80% of the common stock of TFM, S.A. de C.V. ("TFM"), Mexrail, Inc. ("Mexrail"),
which wholly owns The Texas Mexican  Railway  Company ("Tex Mex"),  and Southern
Capital Corporation LLC ("Southern Capital").

FAM Holdings, Inc. ("FAM HC") was formed for the purpose of becoming the holding
company for Financial Services segment subsidiaries and affiliates.  The primary
entities  comprising this segment are Janus Capital  Corporation  ("Janus" - 82%
owned,  diluted),  Berger  Associates,  Inc.  ("Berger" - 100% owned) and Nelson
Money  Managers plc  ("Nelson" - 80% owned).  Additionally,  the Company owns an
approximate 32% equity interest in DST Systems, Inc. ("DST").

The  accounting  and financial  reporting  policies of the Company  conform with
generally  accepted   accounting   principles.   The  preparation  of  financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities,  the disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial  statements,  and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses  during the reporting  period.  Actual  results could differ from those
estimates.

Use of the term "Company" as described in these Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements  means  Kansas  City  Southern  Industries,   Inc.  and  all  of  its
consolidated subsidiary companies. Significant accounting and reporting policies
are  described  below.  Certain  prior year  amounts have been  reclassified  to
conform to the current year presentation.

Principles of Consolidation.  The consolidated  financial  statements  generally
include all majority owned subsidiaries.  All significant  intercompany accounts
and transactions have been eliminated.

Cash  Equivalents.  Short-term  liquid  investments  with an initial maturity of
generally three months or less are considered cash  equivalents.  Carrying value
approximates market value due to the short-term nature of these investments.

Inventories.  Materials and supplies  inventories for transportation  operations
are valued at average cost.

Properties  and  Depreciation.  Properties  are  stated at cost.  Additions  and
renewals  constituting a unit of property are capitalized and all properties are
depreciated  over  the  estimated  remaining  life  of  such  assets.   Ordinary
maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred.

The cost of transportation  equipment and road property  normally retired,  less
salvage value, is charged to accumulated depreciation.  Conversely,  the cost of
industrial and other property retired,  and the cost of transportation  property
abnormally  retired,   together  with  accumulated   depreciation  thereon,  are
eliminated  from the  property  accounts  and the  related  gains or losses  are
reflected in earnings.



Depreciation   for   transportation   operations  is  computed  using  composite
straight-line rates for financial statement purposes. The Surface Transportation
Board  ("STB")  approves the  depreciation  rates used by KCSR.  KCSR  evaluates
depreciation  rates for properties and equipment and implements  approved rates.
Periodic revisions of rates have not had a material effect on operating results.
Unit depreciation  methods,  employing both accelerated and straight-line rates,
are employed in other business  segments.  Accelerated  depreciation is used for
income tax  purposes.  The  ranges of annual  depreciation  rates for  financial
statement purposes are:


The  Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No.  121
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
be  Disposed  Of" ("SFAS  121")  effective  January 1, 1996.  SFAS 121  provides
accounting   standards  for  the  impairment  of  long-lived   assets,   certain
identifiable  intangibles,  and goodwill,  as well as for long-lived  assets and
certain identifiable  intangibles which are to be disposed. If events or changes
in  circumstances  of a long-lived asset indicate that the carrying amount of an
asset may not be  recoverable,  the Company must  estimate the future cash flows
expected to result from the use of the asset and its  eventual  disposition.  If
the sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest) is
lower  than the  carrying  amount  of the  asset,  an  impairment  loss  must be
recognized to the extent that the carrying  amount of the asset exceeds its fair
value.  The adoption of SFAS 121 did not have a material effect on the Company's
financial  position  or results of  operations.  However,  see Note 3 below with
respect to certain  KCSR assets held for  disposal  and certain  other  impaired
assets.

Investments.  The equity  method of accounting is used for all entities in which
the Company or its subsidiaries  have significant  influence,  but not more than
50% voting control interest; the cost method of accounting is generally used for
investments of less than 20% voting control  interest.  In December 1996 and the
first four months of 1997,  Gateway  Western was  accounted for under the equity
method as a majority-owned  unconsolidated  subsidiary while the Company awaited
approval from the STB for the acquisition of Gateway  Western.  The STB approved
the  Company's   acquisition   of  Gateway   Western   effective  May  5,  1997.
Subsequently,  Gateway Western was included as a consolidated  subsidiary of the
Company effective January 1, 1997. See Note 2 for additional  information on the
Gateway Western acquisition.

Pursuant to Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 115 "Accounting for
Certain  Investments in Debt and Equity  Securities"  ("SFAS 115"),  investments
classified as "available for sale" are reported at fair value,  with  unrealized
gains and losses  excluded from earnings and  reported,  net of deferred  income
taxes, in accumulated  other  comprehensive  income.  Investments  classified as
"trading"  securities  are  reported at fair value,  with  unrealized  gains and
losses  included in  earnings.  Investments  in advised  funds are  comprised of
shares of certain  mutual funds advised by Janus and Berger.  These  investments
are generally used to fund  operations and dividends.  Realized gains and losses
are determined using the first-in, first-out method.

Revenue  Recognition.  Revenue  is  recognized  by  the  Company's  consolidated
railroad  operations  based upon the  percentage  of  completion  of a commodity
movement.  Investment  advisory  revenues  are  recognized  by Janus and  Berger
primarily as a percentage of assets under  management.  Other  subsidiaries,  in
general,  recognize  revenue  when the  product is shipped  or as  services  are
performed.

Advertising.  The Company expenses all advertising as incurred.  Direct response
advertising  for which future  economic  benefits are probable and  specifically
attributable to the advertising is not material.



Intangibles.  Intangibles principally represent the excess of cost over the fair
value of net underlying assets of acquired  companies using purchase  accounting
and are amortized using the straight-line  method over periods ranging from 5 to
40 years.

On an annual  basis,  the Company  reviews the  recoverability  of goodwill.  In
response to changes in the  competitive  and  business  environment  in the rail
industry,   the  Company  revised  its   methodology  for  evaluating   goodwill
recoverability  effective  December  31,  1997.  The  change  in this  method of
measurement  relates to the level at which  assets are grouped from the business
unit level to the  investment  component  level.  At the same  time,  there were
changes  in the  estimates  of  future  cash  flows  used  to  measure  goodwill
recoverability.  The effect of the change in method of applying  the  accounting
principle is inseparable from the changes in estimate. Accordingly, the combined
effects have been reported in the accompanying consolidated financial statements
as a change in  estimate.  The Company  believes  that the  revised  methodology
represents a preferable  method of accounting  because it more closely links the
fair value estimates to the asset whose  recoverability is being evaluated.  The
policy  change did not impact the  Company's  Financial  Services  businesses as
their goodwill has always been evaluated on an investment component basis.

As a result of the changes  discussed  above,  the Company  determined  that the
aggregate  carrying value of the goodwill and other intangible assets associated
with the 1993 MidSouth  Corporation  ("MidSouth")  purchase  exceeded their fair
value. Accordingly,  the Company recorded an impairment loss of $91.3 million in
the fourth  quarter of 1997.  Due to the fact that the change in  accounting  is
inseparable from the changes in estimates,  the pro forma effects of retroactive
application cannot be determined.

Computer  Software  Costs.  Costs incurred in  conjunction  with the purchase or
development  of  computer  software  for  internal  use  are  accounted  for  in
accordance with American Institute of Certified Public Accountant's Statement of
Position  98-1  "Accounting  for the Costs of  Computer  Software  Developed  or
Obtained for  Internal  Use" ("SOP  98-1").  Costs  incurred in the  preliminary
project  stage,  as well as training  and  maintenance  costs,  are  expensed as
incurred.  Direct and indirect costs associated with the application development
stage of internal use software are capitalized until such time that the software
is substantially  complete and ready for its intended use. Capitalized costs are
amortized on a straight line basis over the useful life of the software.

Derivative  Financial  Instruments.  In 1997,  the Company  entered into foreign
currency contracts in order to reduce the impact of fluctuations in the value of
the Mexican peso on its investment in Grupo TFM.  These  contracts were intended
to  hedge  only a  portion  of  the  Company's  exposure  related  to the  final
installment  of the purchase price and not any other  transactions  or balances.
The  Company  follows  the  requirements  outlined  in  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 52 "Foreign  Currency  Translation"  ("SFAS 52"),  and
related authoritative guidance.  Accordingly, gains and losses related to hedges
of the  Company's  investment  in Grupo  TFM were  deferred  and  recognized  as
adjustments to the carrying amount of the investment when the hedged transaction
occurred.

Any gains and losses  qualifying as hedges of existing assets or liabilities are
included  in the  carrying  amounts  of  those  assets  or  liabilities  and are
ultimately  recognized in income as part of those carrying amounts. Any gains or
losses on  derivative  contracts  that do not  qualify as hedges are  recognized
currently as other income. Gains and losses on hedges are reflected in operating
activities in the statement of cash flows.

See Note 11 for  additional  information  with respect to  derivative  financial
instruments and purchase commitments.



Income Taxes.  Deferred income tax effects of transactions reported in different
periods for  financial  reporting  and income tax return  purposes  are recorded
under the  liability  method of accounting  for income taxes.  This method gives
consideration  to the future tax  consequences  of the deferred income tax items
and immediately recognizes changes in income tax laws upon enactment. The income
statement  effect is generally  derived from changes in deferred income taxes on
the balance sheet.

Treasury  Stock.  The excess of par over cost of the  Preferred  shares  held in
Treasury is  credited to capital  surplus.  Common  shares held in Treasury  are
accounted  for as if they were  retired and the excess of cost over par value of
such shares is charged to capital  surplus,  if available,  and then to retained
earnings.

Stock  Plans.   Proceeds   received  from  the  exercise  of  stock  options  or
subscriptions are credited to the appropriate  capital accounts in the year they
are exercised.

The  Financial   Accounting   Standards  Board  issued  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation"  ("SFAS
123") in October 1995.  This  statement  allows  companies to continue under the
approach set forth in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25"), for recognizing stock-based  compensation
expense in the financial statements,  but encourages companies to adopt the fair
value method of accounting for employee  stock options.  The Company has elected
to retain its accounting approach under APB 25, and has presented the applicable
pro  forma  disclosures  in  Note 9 to  the  consolidated  financial  statements
pursuant to the requirements of SFAS 123.

All shares held in the Employer  Stock  Ownership  Plan  ("ESOP") are treated as
outstanding  for purposes of computing  the  Company's  earnings per share.  See
additional information on the ESOP in Note 10.

Earnings  Per Share.  The Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards  No. 128  "Earnings  per Share"  ("SFAS 128") in 1997.  The  statement
specifies the computation, presentation and disclosure requirements for earnings
per share.  The statement  requires the  computation of earnings per share under
two  methods:  "basic" and  "diluted."  Basic  earnings per share is computed by
dividing income available to common  stockholders by the weighted average number
of common shares  outstanding  during the period.  Diluted earnings per share is
computed  giving  effect  to all  dilutive  potential  common  shares  that were
outstanding  during  the  period  (i.e.,  the  denominator  used  in  the  basic
calculation is increased to include the number of additional  common shares that
would have been  outstanding if the dilutive  potential shares had been issued).
SFAS 128 requires the Company to present basic and diluted per share amounts for
income (loss) from  continuing  operations and for net income (loss) on the face
of the statements of operations.  All prior period  earnings per share data have
been restated.

The effect of stock options to employees  represent the only difference  between
the  weighted  average  shares  used for the basic  computation  compared to the
diluted  computation.  The total incremental  shares from assumed  conversion of
stock options  included in the  computation  of diluted  earnings per share were
3,840,333  and  2,111,437  for the  years  ended  December  31,  1998 and  1996,
respectively.  Because of the net loss in 1997,  all options were  anti-dilutive
for the year  ended  December  31,  1997.  The  weighted  average  of options to
purchase  274,340  and  3,502,290  shares in 1998 and 1996,  respectively,  were
excluded from the diluted  earnings per share  computation  because the exercise
prices were  greater  than the  respective  average  market  price of the common
shares.

The only  adjustments  that  currently  affect the  numerator  of the  Company's
diluted  earnings  per  share  computation   include  preferred   dividends  and
potentially   dilutive   securities  at  subsidiaries   and  affiliates.   These
adjustments  totaled  $2.3  million  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1998.
Adjustments for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996 were not material.





The Company's $1 Par Series B convertible  Preferred  stock ("Series B Preferred
stock"),  issued in 1993,  had a $200 per share  liquidation  preference and was
convertible to common stock at a ratio of twelve to one. As more fully discussed
in Note 9,  effective  September 30, 1998,  the Company  terminated the Employee
Plan Funding Trust ("EPFT" or "Trust"), which was established as a grantor trust
for the  purpose of holding  these  shares of Series B  Preferred  stock for the
benefit of various KCSI employee benefit plans.

In accordance  with the Agreement to terminate  the EPFT,  the Company  received
872,362 shares of Series B Preferred stock in full repayment of the indebtedness
from the  Trust ( $178.7  million  plus  accrued  interest).  In  addition,  the
remaining  127,638  shares of Series B Preferred  stock were converted into KCSI
Common stock,  resulting in the issuance to the EPFT of 1,531,656 shares of such
Common stock. This Common stock was then transferred to KCSI and the Company has
set these  shares  aside for use in  connection  with the KCSI Stock  Option and
Performance  Award Plan, as amended and restated  effective  July 15, 1998. As a
result of the  termination  of the  Trust,  the Series B  Preferred  stock is no
longer issued or outstanding and the converted Common stock has been included in
the shares issued above.

On July 29, 1997, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a 3-for-1 split in
the Company's  common stock effected in the form of a stock dividend.  All share
and per share data reflect this split.

The  Company's  stockholders  approved  a  reverse  stock  split  at  a  special
stockholders'  meeting  held on July 15,  1998.  The  Company  will not effect a
reverse   stock  split  until  a  separation   of  its  two  business   segments
(Transportation and Financial Services) is completed.



Retained  earnings  include  equity in  unremitted  earnings  of  unconsolidated
affiliates of $125.9,  $109.1 and $99.2  million at December 31, 1998,  1997 and
1996, respectively.


New Accounting Pronouncements.  In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board  ("FASB")  issued  Statement of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 133
"Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities"  ("SFAS 133").
SFAS 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative financial
instruments,   including  certain  derivative   instruments  embedded  in  other
contracts,   and  for  hedging  activities.   It  requires  recognition  of  all
derivatives as either assets or liabilities  measured at fair value. SFAS 133 is
effective for all fiscal  quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999
and should not be retroactively applied to financial statements of periods prior
to adoption.



The Company  currently has a program to hedge against  fluctuations in the price
of diesel fuel purchases,  and also enters into fuel purchase  commitments  from
time to time. In addition,  the Company continues to evaluate  alternatives with
respect to  utilizing  foreign  currency  instruments  to hedge its U.S.  dollar
investments  in Grupo TFM and  Nelson as market  conditions  change or  exchange
rates  fluctuate.  Currently,  the Company has no outstanding  foreign  currency
hedges. The Company is reviewing the provisions of SFAS 133 and expects adoption
by the required  date.  The adoption of SFAS 133 with respect to existing  hedge
transactions is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's  results
of operations, financial position or cash flows.

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 132 "Employers' Disclosure about
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits - an amendment of FASB Statements No.
87, 88, and 106" ("SFAS  132") was adopted by the Company in 1998 and prior year
information  has been  included  pursuant  to SFAS  132.  SFAS  132  establishes
standardized  disclosure  requirements  for  pension  and  other  postretirement
benefit  plans,  requires  additional  information  on  changes  in the  benefit
obligations and fair values of plan assets, and eliminates  certain  disclosures
that are no longer  useful.  The  standard  does not change the  measurement  or
recognition of pension or postretirement benefit plans. The adoption of SFAS 132
did not have a material impact on the Company's disclosures.

In 1998, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards  No. 131  "Disclosures  about  Segments of an  Enterprise  and Related
Information"  ("SFAS  131").  SFAS 131  establishes  standards for the manner in
which public business enterprises report information about operating segments in
annual  financial  statements  and requires  disclosure of selected  information
about operating  segments in interim  financial  reports issued to shareholders.
SFAS 131 also establishes  standards for related  disclosures about products and
services, geographic areas and major customers. The adoption of SFAS 131 did not
have a  material  impact  on the  disclosures  of the  Company.  See Note 13 for
segment financial  information.  Prior year information is reflected pursuant to
SFAS 131.

Effective  January 1, 1998,  the Company  adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 130 "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income" ("SFAS
130"), which establishes standards for reporting and disclosure of comprehensive
income and its components in the financial  statements.  Prior year  information
has been included pursuant to SFAS 130. The Company's other comprehensive income
consists  primarily of unrealized  gains and losses relating to investments held
as "available for sale"  securities as defined by SFAS 115. The unrealized  gain
related to these  investments  increased $40.3 million,  $42.6 million and $30.1
million ($24.1 million,  $25.9 million and $18.5 million, net of deferred taxes)
for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

In Issue No. 96-16,  the Emerging  Issues Task Force ("EITF 96-16") of the FASB,
reached a consensus that substantive  minority rights which provide the minority
shareholder with the right to effectively control  significant  decisions in the
ordinary  course of an  investee's  business  could impact  whether the majority
shareholder should consolidate the investee.  Management evaluated the rights of
the minority shareholders of its consolidated subsidiaries.  Application of EITF
96-16 did not affect the Company's consolidated financial statements.

In 1998,  the  Company  adopted  the  guidance  outlined  in SOP 98-1.  SOP 98-1
requires that computer software costs incurred in the preliminary project stage,
as well as training and maintenance costs be expensed as incurred. This guidance
also requires that direct and indirect  costs  associated  with the  application
development  stage of internal use software be capitalized  until such time that
the  software  is  substantially  complete  and  ready  for  its  intended  use.
Capitalized  costs are to be amortized on a straight  line basis over the useful
life of the  software.  The  adoption of this  guidance  did not have a material
impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows.




Note 2. Acquisitions and Dispositions

DST  Transactions.  On  December  21,  1998,  DST and USCS  International,  Inc.
("USCS")  announced the completion of the merger of USCS with a wholly-owned DST
subsidiary.  The merger, accounted for as a pooling of interests by DST, expands
DST's  presence in the output  solutions  and customer  management  software and
services industries.  USCS is a leading provider of customer management software
to the  cable  television  and  convergence  industries.  Under the terms of the
merger, USCS became a wholly-owned  subsidiary of DST. DST issued  approximately
13.8 million shares of its common stock in the transaction.

The issuance of additional DST common shares reduced KCSI's  ownership  interest
from 41% to  approximately  32%.  Additionally,  the Company recorded a one-time
non-cash charge of approximately  $36.0 million pretax ($23.2 million after-tax,
or $0.21 per share),  reflecting the Company's  reduced ownership of DST and the
Company's  proportionate  share of DST and USCS  fourth  quarter  merger-related
costs. KCSI accounts for its investment in DST under the equity method.

On August 1, 1996,  The  Continuum  Company,  Inc.  ("Continuum"),  formerly  an
approximate  23% owned DST  equity  affiliate,  merged  with  Computer  Sciences
Corporation ("CSC," a publicly traded company) in a tax-free share exchange.  In
exchange for its ownership interest in Continuum, DST received CSC common stock,
which DST accounts for as available for sale securities pursuant to SFAS 115.

As a result of this  CSC/Continuum  transaction,  the Company's earnings for the
year ended December 31, 1996 include approximately $47.7 million (after-tax,  or
$0.41 per diluted share),  representing the Company's proportionate share of the
one-time gain recognized by DST in connection with the merger.  Continuum ceased
to be an equity  affiliate  of DST,  thereby  eliminating  any future  Continuum
equity affiliate  earnings or losses.  DST recognized equity losses in Continuum
of $4.9 million for the first six months of 1996.

Acquisition of Nelson.  On April 20, 1998, the Company completed its acquisition
of 80% of Nelson, an investment  advisor and manager based in the United Kingdom
("UK"). Nelson has six offices throughout the UK and offers planning based asset
management  services directly to private clients.  Nelson managed  approximately
$1.2 billion of assets as of December 31, 1998. The  acquisition,  accounted for
as a purchase,  was completed using a combination of cash, KCSI common stock and
notes  payable.  The total  purchase price was  approximately  $33 million.  The
purchase  price is in excess of the fair market  value of the net  tangible  and
identifiable intangible assets received and this excess was recorded as goodwill
to be amortized  over a period of 20 years.  Assuming the  transaction  had been
completed  January 1, 1998,  inclusion of Nelson's results on a pro forma basis,
as of and for the year ended December 31, 1998,  would not have been material to
the Company's consolidated results of operations.

Grupo TFM. In June 1996, the Company and Transportacion  Maritima Mexicana, S.A.
de C.V.  ("TMM")  formed Grupo TFM.  Grupo TFM was formed to  participate in the
privatization of the Mexican rail industry.

On December 6, 1996,  Grupo TFM, TMM and the Company  announced that the Mexican
Government  ("Government") had awarded to Grupo TFM the right to purchase 80% of
the  common  stock  of  TFM  for  approximately  11.072  billion  Mexican  pesos
(approximately $1.4 billion based on the U.S.  dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate
on the award date). TFM holds the concession to operate Mexico's "Northeast Rail
Lines" for 50 years, with the option of a 50 year extension  (subject to certain
conditions).

The Northeast Rail Lines are a  strategically  important rail link to Mexico and
the North  American  Free  Trade  Agreement  ("NAFTA")  corridor.  The lines are
estimated to transport  approximately 40% of Mexico's rail cargo and are located
next to primary north/south truck routes. The Northeast Rail Lines directly link
Mexico City and Monterrey,  as well as Guadalajara  (through  trackage  rights),
with the  ports  of  Lazaro  Cardenas,  Veracruz,  Tampico,  and the  cities  of
Matamoros and Nuevo  Laredo.  Nuevo Laredo is a primary  transportation  gateway
between Mexico and the United States. The Northeast Rail Lines connect



in Laredo,  Texas to the Union  Pacific  Railroad  and the Tex Mex.  The Tex Mex
links to KCSR at Beaumont,  Texas through trackage rights. With the KCSR and Tex
Mex  interchange  at Beaumont,  and through KCSR's  connections  with major rail
carriers at various other  points,  KCSR has developed a NAFTA rail system which
is  expected  to  facilitate  the  economic  integration  of the North  American
marketplace.

On January 31, 1997, Grupo TFM paid the first  installment of the purchase price
(approximately $565 million based on the U.S. dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate)
to the Government,  representing  approximately  40% of the purchase price. This
initial  installment  of the TFM purchase  price was funded by Grupo TFM through
capital  contributions  from  TMM  and  the  Company.  The  Company  contributed
approximately $298 million to Grupo TFM, of which approximately $277 million was
used by  Grupo  TFM as part of the  initial  installment  payment.  The  Company
financed this contribution using borrowings under existing lines of credit.

On June 23,  1997,  Grupo TFM  completed  the purchase of 80% of TFM through the
payment of the remaining $835 million to the Government. This payment was funded
by Grupo TFM using a significant  portion of the funds obtained from: (i) senior
secured  term credit  facilities  ($325  million);  (ii) senior notes and senior
discount  debentures  ($400  million);  (iii) proceeds from the sale of 24.6% of
Grupo  TFM to the  Government  (approximately  $199  million  based  on the U.S.
dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate on June 23, 1997); and (iv) additional capital
contributions  from TMM and the Company  (approximately  $1.4  million from each
partner).  Additionally,  Grupo TFM entered into a $150 million revolving credit
facility for general  working capital  purposes.  The  Government's  interest in
Grupo  TFM is in the form of  limited  voting  right  shares,  and the  purchase
agreement  includes a call option for TMM and the Company,  which is exercisable
at the original  amount (in U.S.  dollars) paid by the Government  plus interest
based on one-year U.S. Treasury securities.

In  February  and March 1997,  the Company  entered  into two  separate  forward
contracts  - $98 million in  February  1997 and $100  million in March 1997 - to
purchase  Mexican  pesos in order to hedge  against a portion  of the  Company's
exposure  to  fluctuations  in the value of the  Mexican  peso  versus  the U.S.
dollar.  In April  1997,  the  Company  realized a $3.8  million  pretax gain in
connection with these contracts.  This gain was deferred, and has been accounted
for as a component of the  Company's  investment in Grupo TFM.  These  contracts
were intended to hedge only a portion of the Company's  exposure  related to the
final  installment  of the  purchase  price  and not any other  transactions  or
balances.

Concurrent  with the  financing  transactions,  Grupo TFM,  TMM and the  Company
entered into a Capital Contribution  Agreement  ("Contribution  Agreement") with
TFM,  which  includes a possible  capital  call of $150 million from TMM and the
Company if certain performance  benchmarks,  outlined in the agreement,  are not
met.  The Company  would be  responsible  for  approximately  $74 million of the
capital  call.  The term of the  Contribution  Agreement  is three  years.  In a
related agreement between Grupo TFM, TFM and the Government,  among others,  the
Government  agreed to contribute up to $37.5 million of equity  capital to Grupo
TFM if TMM and the Company were  required to  contribute  under the capital call
provisions of the Contribution  Agreement prior to July 16, 1998. As of July 16,
1998, no additional  contributions  from the Company were requested or made and,
therefore,  the Government did not contribute additional equity capital to Grupo
TFM. The Government also committed that if it had not made any  contributions by
July  16,  1998,  it  would,  up to  July  31,  1999,  make  additional  capital
contributions  to Grupo TFM (of up to an aggregate amount of $37.5 million) on a
proportionate  basis  with TMM and the  Company  if  capital  contributions  are
required.  Any capital  contributions  to Grupo TFM from the Government would be
used to  reduce  the  contribution  amounts  required  to be paid by TMM and the
Company  pursuant to the  Contribution  Agreement.  As of  December  31, 1998 no
additional contributions from the Company have been requested or made.

At December 31, 1998,  the Company's  investment in Grupo TFM was  approximately
$285.1  million.  With the sale of 24.6%  of Grupo  TFM to the  Government,  the
Company's interest in Grupo TFM declined from 49% to approximately 37% (with TMM
and a TMM affiliate  owning the remaining  38.4%).  The Company accounts for its
investment in Grupo TFM under the equity method.



On January 28,  1999,  the  Company,  along with other  direct and indirect
owners of TFM, entered into a preliminary agreement with the Government. As part
of that agreement,  an option was granted to the Company,  TMM and Grupo Servia,
S.A. de C.V.  ("Grupo  Servia")  to  purchase  the  Government's  20%  ownership
interest  in TFM at a discount.  The option to purchase  all or a portion of the
Government's  interest expires on November 30, 1999. If the purchase of at least
35% of the  Government's  stock is not  completed  by May 31,  1999,  the entire
option will expire on that date. If the option is fully exercised, the Company's
additional  cash  investment  is not expected to exceed $88 million.  As part of
this  agreement  and as a condition to exercise  this  option,  the parties have
agreed to settle the oustanding claims against the Government regarding a refund
of Mexican  Value Added Tax (VAT)  payments.  TFM has also agreed to sell to the
Government  a small  section of  redundant  trackage  for  inclusion  in another
railroad  concession.  In  addition,  under  the  terms  of the  agreement,  the
Government  would be released  from its capital call  obligations  at the moment
that the option is exercised in whole or in part.  Furthermore,  TFM, TMM, Grupo
Servia and the Company have agreed to sell,  in a public  offering,  a direct or
indirect  participation in at least the same percentage currently represented by
the shares exercised in this option, by October 31, 2003, at the latest, subject
to  market  conditions.  The  option  and the  other  described  agreements  are
conditioned  on the parties  entering  into a final  written  agreement  and the
Company,  TFM,  TMM and  Grupo  Servia  obtaining  all  necessary  consents  and
authorizations.

Gateway  Western  Acquisition.  In May  1997,  the STB  approved  the  Company's
acquisition of Gateway  Western,  a regional rail carrier with  operations  from
Kansas City,  Missouri to East St. Louis and  Springfield,  Illinois and haulage
rights  between  Springfield  and  Chicago,   from  the  Southern  Pacific  Rail
Corporation.  Prior to the STB  approval -- from  acquisition  in December  1996
through May 1997 -- the Company's investment in Gateway Western was treated as a
majority-owned  unconsolidated subsidiary accounted for under the equity method.
Upon approval from the STB, the assets, liabilities,  revenues and expenses were
included in the Company's consolidated  financial statements.  The consideration
paid for Gateway Western (including  various  acquisition costs and liabilities)
was approximately $12.2 million, which exceeded the fair value of the underlying
net assets by  approximately  $12.1 million.  The resulting  intangible is being
amortized over a period of 40 years.

Under a prior  agreement with The Atchison,  Topeka & Santa Fe Railway  Company,
Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation has the option of purchasing the assets
of Gateway Western (based on a fixed formula in the agreement)  through the year
2004.

Assuming  the  transaction  had been  completed  January 1, 1996,  inclusion  of
Gateway  Western  results  on a pro forma  basis,  as of and for the year  ended
December 31, 1996,  would not have been material to the  Company's  consolidated
results of operations.

Berger Ownership Interest.  As a result of certain transactions during 1997, the
Company  increased  its  ownership in Berger to 100% from  approximately  80% at
December 31, 1996. In January and December 1997, Berger purchased, for treasury,
the common stock of minority  shareholders.  Also in December  1997, the Company
acquired  additional  Berger  shares  from a minority  shareholder  through  the
issuance  of 330,000  shares of KCSI  common  stock.  In  connection  with these
transactions,  Berger  granted  options  to  acquire  shares of Berger  stock to
certain of its employees.  At December 31, 1998, the Company's  ownership  would
have been diluted to  approximately  91% if all of the  outstanding  options had
been exercised.  These transactions  resulted in approximately  $17.8 million of
goodwill,  which is being  amortized over 15 years.  However,  see discussion of
impairment of a portion of this goodwill in Note 3.

The Company's 1994 acquisition of a controlling interest in Berger was completed
under a Stock  Purchase  Agreement  ("Agreement")  covering  a five year  period
ending in October 1999.  Pursuant to the Agreement,  the Company may be required
to make  additional  purchase  price  payments (up to $36.6  million) based upon
Berger attaining certain incremental levels of assets under management up to $10
billion by October 1999. The Company made no payments under the Agreement during
1998. In 1997 and 1996, the Company made  additional  payments of $3.1 and $23.9
million,  respectively,  resulting in  adjustments  to the purchase  price.  The
intangible amounts are amortized over 15 years.



Southern  Capital.  In October  1996,  the Company and GATX Capital  Corporation
("GATX")  completed the  transactions for the formation and financing of a joint
venture to perform  certain  leasing  and  financing  activities.  The  venture,
Southern Capital, was formed through a GATX contribution of $25 million in cash,
and a Company  contribution  (through KCSR and Carland,  Inc.) of $25 million in
net assets,  comprising a negotiated fair value of locomotives and rolling stock
and long-term  indebtedness owed to KCSI and its subsidiaries.  In an associated
transaction,  Southern  Leasing  Corporation  ("SLC," an  indirect  wholly-owned
subsidiary  of the  Company  prior to  dissolution  in  October  1996),  sold to
Southern  Capital  approximately  $75 million of loan portfolio  assets and rail
equipment at fair value which approximated historical cost.

As a result of these  transactions and subsequent  repayment by Southern Capital
of indebtedness  owed to KCSI and its  subsidiaries,  the Company  received cash
which exceeded the net book value of its assets by approximately  $44.1 million.
Concurrent with the formation of the joint venture,  KCSR entered into operating
leases with Southern Capital for the majority of the rail equipment  acquired by
or contributed  to Southern  Capital.  Accordingly,  this excess fair value over
book value is being recognized over the terms of the leases  (approximately $4.4
million in 1998 and $4.9 million in 1997).

The cash received by the Company was used to reduce outstanding  indebtedness by
approximately  $217 million,  after  consideration  of applicable  income taxes,
through repayments on various lines of credit and subsidiary  indebtedness.  The
Company reports its 50% ownership  interest in Southern Capital under the equity
method of accounting. See Notes 4 and 5 for additional information.

Under a prior agreement,  GATX had an option to notify the Company of its intent
to cause  disposal  of the loan  portfolio  assets  of  Southern  Capital.  GATX
exercised its option with regard to this  agreement and the Company and GATX are
jointly reviewing  options for disposition of these loan portfolio  assets.  The
portfolio of rail assets would remain with Southern Capital. The disposal of the
loan portfolio assets is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's
results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Note 3.  Restructuring, Asset Impairment and Other Charges

As discussed in Note 1, in response to changes in the  competitive  and business
environment  in the rail  industry,  the  Company  revised its  methodology  for
evaluating goodwill  recoverability  effective December 31, 1997. As a result of
this revised  methodology (as well as certain changes in estimate),  the Company
determined  that  the  aggregate  carrying  value  of  the  goodwill  and  other
intangible assets associated with the 1993 MidSouth purchase exceeded their fair
value  (measured by  reference  to the net present  value of future cash flows).
Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $91.3 million in 1997.

In connection with the review of its intangible  assets,  the Company determined
that the carrying value of the goodwill associated with Berger exceeded its fair
value (measured by reference to various  valuation  techniques  commonly used in
the investment  management  industry) as a result of below-peer  performance and
growth of the core Berger funds. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment
loss of $12.7 million.

During  the fourth  quarter  of 1997,  Transportation  management  committed  to
dispose, as soon as practicable,  certain under-performing branch lines acquired
in  connection  with the  1993  MidSouth  purchase,  as well as  certain  of the
Company's non-operating real estate.  Accordingly,  in accordance with SFAS 121,
the Company  recognized  losses  aggregating $38.5 million which represented the
excess  of  carrying  value  over  fair  value  less  cost to sell.  Results  of
operations  related to these assets  included in the  accompanying  consolidated
financial  statements cannot be separately  identified.  During 1998, one of the
branch  lines  was  sold  for a  pretax  gain  of  approximately  $2.9  million.
Management  efforts  are  ongoing to procure  bids on the other  branch line and
non-operating real estate.



In   accordance   with  SFAS  121,  the  Company   periodically   evaluates  the
recoverability of its operating properties.  As a result of continuing operating
losses  and a  further  decline  in the  customer  base  of  the  Transportation
segment's bulk coke handling facility (Pabtex, Inc.) the Company determined that
the long-lived assets related thereto may not be fully recoverable. Accordingly,
the Company  recognized an impairment loss of $9.2 million in 1997  representing
the excess of carrying value over fair value.

Additionally, the Company recorded expenses aggregating $44.7 million related to
restructuring and other costs. This amount includes  approximately $27.1 related
to the  termination  of a union  productivity  fund (which  required KCSR to pay
certain employees when reduced crew levels were used) and employee  separations,
as well as  $17.6  million  of other  costs  related  to  reserves  for  leases,
contracts,  impaired  investments and other  reorganization  costs. During 1998,
approximately  $31.1 million of cash payments were made and  approximately  $2.5
million of the reserves were reduced based  primarily on changes in the estimate
of claims  made  relating to the union  productivity  fund.  Approximately  $6.5
million of reserves remain accrued at December 31, 1998.



Note 4. Supplemental Cash Flow Disclosures


Supplemental  Schedule  of  Noncash  Investing  and  Financing  Activities.   As
discussed in Note 2, during second  quarter 1998, in connection  with  Company's
acquisition of Nelson,  the Company issued  approximately  67,000 shares of KCSI
Common  stock  (valued at $3.2  million) to certain of the sellers of the Nelson
shares.  Also,  notes  payable  of $4.9  million  were  recorded  as part of the
purchase price, payable by March 31, 2005, bearing interest at 7 percent.

As  discussed  in Note 2,  during  1997 the  Company  purchased a portion of the
Berger minority interest. The Company issued 330,000 shares of its common stock,
valued at $10.1 million, in exchange for the increased investment in Berger.

In connection  with the Southern  Capital joint venture  formation,  the Company
(through its  subsidiaries  KCSR,  Carland,  Inc. and SLC)  contributed/sold  to
Southern Capital rail equipment,  current and non-current loan portfolio assets,
and  long-term  indebtedness  owed to KCSI and its  subsidiaries  (see  Note 2).
Southern  Capital repaid the indebtedness  owed KCSI and its  subsidiaries  with
borrowings under Southern Capital's credit facility.  Cash received by KCSI from
Southern Capital of approximately  $224 million is reflected in the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended  December  31, 1996 as proceeds  from
disposal  of  property  ($184  million)  and  proceeds  from  disposal  of other
investments ($40 million).  The Company accrued for expected income taxes on the
transaction  and, as described in Note 2, deferred the excess cash received over
the book value of the assets contributed and sold.

Company subsidiaries and affiliates hold various investments which are accounted
for as  "available  for sale"  securities  as defined in SFAS 115.  The  Company
records its  proportionate  share of any  unrealized  gains or losses related to
these  investments,  net of deferred taxes, in accumulated  other  comprehensive
income.  Stockholders' equity increased $24.1, $25.9, and $18.5 million in 1998,
1997 and 1996,  respectively,  as a result of unrealized  gains related to these
investments.

During 1998,  1997 and 1996,  the Company  issued  227,178,  245,550 and 305,400
shares of KCSI  Common  stock,  respectively,  under  various  offerings  of the
Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP").



These shares,  totaling a purchase price of $3.0, $3.1 and $3.8 million in 1998,
1997 and 1996,  respectively,  were  subscribed  and paid for  through  employee
payroll deductions in years preceding the issuance of stock.

During  1998,  1997 and  1996,  the  Company's  Board of  Directors  declared  a
quarterly  dividend  totaling   approximately   $4.4,  $4.5  and  $3.6  million,
respectively, payable in January of the following year. The dividend declaration
reduced  retained  earnings  and  established  a  liability  at the  end of each
respective year. No cash outlay occurred until the subsequent year.



Note 5. Investments



(a)  On December 21, 1998,  DST and USCS  announced the completion of the merger
     of USCS with a wholly-owned DST subsidiary.  Under the terms of the merger,
     which was  accounted  for as a pooling of interests  by DST,  USCS became a
     wholly-owned  subsidiary  of DST.  DST issued  approximately  13.8  million
     shares of its common stock in the transaction,  resulting in a reduction of
     KCSI's ownership interest from 41% to approximately 32%. (See Note 2). Fair
     market value at December  31, 1998 (based on DST's New York Stock  Exchange
     closing market price) was approximately $1,156.7 million.


(a)  In June 1997, the Mexican Government purchased approximately 24.6% of Grupo
     TFM,   reducing  the   Company's   ownership  in  Grupo  TFM  from  49%  to
     approximately 37% (see Note 2).

(b)  Fair market value is not readily  determinable  for investments  other than
     noted above,  and in the opinion of management,  market value  approximates
     carrying value

Additionally,  DST  holds  investments  in the  common  stock  of  State  Street
Corporation  and CSC,  among others,  which are accounted for as "available  for
sale"  securities as defined by SFAS 115. The Company records its  proportionate
share of any unrealized DST gains or losses related to these investments, net of
deferred taxes, in accumulated other comprehensive income.


Transactions  With and Between  Unconsolidated  Affiliates.  The Company and its
subsidiary,  KCSR, paid certain  expenses on behalf of Grupo TFM during 1997. In
addition,  the Company has a  management  services  agreement  with Grupo TFM to
provide certain consulting and management  services.  At December 31, 1998, $1.5
million is reflected as an accounts  receivable  in the  Company's  consolidated
balance sheet.

In  connection  with the October 1996  formation of the Southern  Capital  joint
venture,   KCSR  entered  into  operating   leases  with  Southern  Capital  for
locomotives  and  rolling  stock at rental  rates  management  believes  reflect
market.  KCSR paid Southern  Capital  $25.1,  $23.5 and $4.5 million under these
operating leases in 1998, 1997 and 1996,  respectively.  Additionally,  Southern
Group, Inc. ("SGI"), a wholly-owned  subsidiary of KCSR, entered into a contract
with  Southern  Capital to manage the loan  portfolio  assets  held 



by Southern Capital, as well as to perform general administrative and accounting
functions for the venture.  Payments under this contract were approximately $1.7
million in 1998 and 1997 and $0.3 million in 1996.

Together, Janus and Berger incurred approximately $5.5, $5.3 and $5.4 million in
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively,  in expenses associated with various services
provided by DST and its subsidiaries and affiliates.

Janus  recorded  $8.9,  $7.1 and $5.9  million in  revenues  for the years ended
December 31, 1998,  1997 and 1996,  respectively,  representing  management fees
earned from IDEX Management,  Inc. ("IDEX").  IDEX was a 50% owned investment of
Janus prior to disposition  during second quarter 1998. Janus recognized an $8.8
million pretax gain in connection with this disposition.

Throughout  1996,  the  Company  repurchased  KCSI  common  stock owned by DST's
portion  of  the  ESOP.  In  total,   1,605,000   shares  were  repurchased  for
approximately $24.2 million.

Financial  Information.  Combined  financial  information of all  unconsolidated
affiliates  that the Company and its  subsidiaries  account for under the equity
method follows.  Note that information  relating to DST (i.e., the equity in net
assets of unconsolidated affiliates,  financial condition and operating results)
has been restated to combine the historical  results of DST and USCS as a result
of their merger on December 21, 1998. All amounts are in millions.











(i) Grupo TFM is presented on a U.S. GAAP basis.

Generally,   the  difference  between  the  carrying  amount  of  the  Company's
investment in unconsolidated  affiliates and the underlying equity in net assets
is attributable to certain equity  investments  whose carrying amounts have been
reduced to zero,  and report a net deficit.  For 1997 and 1996,  the  difference
between the Company's  investment in DST and the underlying equity in net assets
is attributable  to the effects of restating DST's financial  statements for the
merger of a DST wholly-owned  subsidiary with USCS. In addition, with respect to
the  Company's  investment  in  Grupo  TFM,  the  effects  of  foreign  currency
transactions  and  capitalized  interest  prior to June 23, 1997,  which are not
recorded on the investee's books, also result in these differences.

Other.  Interest income on cash and equivalents and investments in advised funds
was $8.1, $7.9 and $4.9 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.



Note 6. Other Balance Sheet Captions



Gross realized gains were not material to the Company's  consolidated results of
operations for the years ended 1998, 1997 and 1996.

Investments  in  advised  funds are  generally  used by Janus and Berger to fund
operations and dividends.  Pursuant to contractual agreements, Janus is required
to pay at least 90% of its net income to its shareholders each year.









As discussed in Note 3,  effective  December  31, 1997,  the Company  recorded a
charge representing long-lived assets held for disposal and impairment of assets
in accordance with SFAS 121.





As discussed in Note 1,  effective  December 31, 1997,  the Company  changed its
method of  evaluating  the  recoverability  of  goodwill.  Also,  see Note 3 for
discussion of goodwill impairment recorded during fourth quarter 1997.




See Note 3 for discussion of reserves  established in 1997 for restructuring and
other charges.



Note 7. Long-Term Debt






On May 5, 1995, the Company established a credit agreement in the amount of $400
million,  comprised  of a $300  million  five-year  facility  and a $100 million
364-day facility.  The $300 million facility was renewed in May 1997,  extending
through  May 2002,  while the $100  million  facility  is expected to be renewed
annually.  Proceeds of these facilities have been and are anticipated to be used
for general corporate  purposes.  The agreements  contain a facility fee ranging
from  .07-.25% per annum and interest  rates below prime.  Additionally,  in May
1998,  the  Company  established  an  additional  $100  million  364-day  credit
agreement  assumable  by  the  Financial  Services  segment  for  its  use  upon
separation of the  Company's  two segments.  Proceeds of this facility have been
and are  anticipated to be used to repay Company debt and for general  corporate
purposes.  This  agreement  contains a facility fee of .15% and  interest  rates
below prime.  The Company also has various  other lines of credit  totaling $106
million.  These  additional  lines,  which are available  for general  corporate
purposes, have interest rates below prime and terms of less than one year. Among
other  provisions,  the agreements  limit  subsidiary  indebtedness  and sale of
assets, and require certain coverage ratios to be maintained. As of December 31,
1998, the Company was in compliance with all covenants of these  agreements.  At
December 31, 1998,  the Company had borrowings of $343 million under its various
lines of credit leaving $263 million  available for use,  subject to limitations
within existing financial covenants as noted below.

As discussed in Note 2, in January 1997,  the Company made an  approximate  $298
million capital  contribution to Grupo TFM, of which  approximately $277 million
was used by Grupo TFM for the  purchase of TFM.  This  payment was funded  using
borrowings under the Company's lines of credit.


Public Debt Transactions. During 1998, $100 million of 5.75% Notes which matured
on July 1, 1998 were repaid using borrowings under existing lines of credit.

Public  indebtedness of the Company at December 31, 1998 includes:  $100 million
of 7.875% Notes due 2002;  $100  million of 6.625%  Notes due in 2005;  and $100
million of 8.8% Debentures due 2022; and $100 million of 7% Debentures due 2025.
The various Notes are not redeemable prior to their respective  maturities.  The
8.8% Debentures are redeemable on or after July 1, 2002 at a premium of 104.04%,
which declines to par on or after July 1, 2012. The 7% Debentures are redeemable
at the option of the Company,  at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption
price  equal  to the  greater  of (a)  100%  of the  principal  amount  of  such
Debentures  or (b) the sum of the  present  values  of the  remaining  scheduled
payments of principal and interest thereon  discounted to the date of redemption
on a  semiannual  basis at the  Treasury  Rate  (as  defined  in the  Debentures
agreement) plus 20 basis points,  and in each case accrued  interest  thereon to
the date of redemption.

These various debt transactions were issued at a total discount of $4.1 million.
This  discount is being  amortized  over the  respective  debt  maturities  on a
straight-line basis, which is not materially different from the interest method.
Deferred debt issue costs incurred in connection with these various transactions
(totaling   approximately   $4.8   million)  are  also  being   amortized  on  a
straight-line basis over the respective debt maturities.




KCSR  Indebtedness.  KCSR has purchased  rolling stock under  conditional  sales
agreements,  equipment trust  certificates  and capitalized  lease  obligations,
which equipment has been pledged as collateral for the related indebtedness.


Other Agreements,  Guarantees, Provisions and Restrictions. The Company has debt
agreements  containing  restrictions  on subsidiary  indebtedness,  advances and
transfers of assets, and sale and leaseback  transactions,  as well as requiring
compliance with various financial  covenants.  At December 31, 1998, the Company
was in compliance  with the provisions  and  restrictions  of these  agreements.
Because of  certain  financial  covenants  contained  in the credit  agreements,
however,  maximum  utilization of the Company's available lines of credit may be
restricted.  Unrestricted  retained  earnings  at  December  31, 1998 was $480.9
million.


Leases  and  Debt   Maturities.   The   Company  and  its   subsidiaries   lease
transportation equipment, as well as office and other operating facilities under
various capital and operating  leases.  Rental  expenses under operating  leases
were $70, $64 and $42 million for the years 1998,  1997 and 1996,  respectively.
As more fully described in Note 2, in connection with the Southern Capital joint
venture  transactions  completed in October  1996,  KCSR entered into  operating
leases with  Southern  Capital  for  locomotives  and  railroad  rolling  stock.
Accordingly,  beginning in 1997 rental expense under operating leases was higher
than previous years.




Fair Value of Long-Term Debt. Based upon the borrowing rates currently available
to the Company and its  subsidiaries  for  indebtedness  with similar  terms and
average  maturities,  the fair value of long-term debt was  approximately  $867,
$947 and $663 million at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.



Note 8. Income Taxes

Under the liability method of accounting for income taxes specified by Statement
of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 109  "Accounting  for  Income  Taxes,"
deferred  tax assets and  liabilities  are  determined  based on the  difference
between  the  financial  statement  and tax basis of assets and  liabilities  as
measured by the enacted tax rates which will be in effect when these differences
reverse.  Generally,  deferred  tax  expense  is the  result of  changes  in the
liability for deferred taxes.











Based upon the Company's history of operating  earnings and its expectations for
the future, management has determined that operating income of the Company will,
more likely than not, be sufficient to recognize  fully the above gross deferred
tax assets.






Tax  Carryovers.  At  December  31,  1998,  the  Company  had  $4.0  million  of
alternative  minimum tax credit  carryover  generated  by  MidSouth  and Gateway
Western  prior to  acquisition  by the  Company.  These  credits  can be carried
forward  indefinitely and are available on a "tax return basis" to reduce future
federal income taxes payable.

The amount of federal NOL  carryover  generated by MidSouth and Gateway  Western
prior to  acquisition  was $67.8  million.  The Company  utilized  approximately
$17.8,  $0.7  and  $31.9  million  of  these  NOL's  in  1998,  1997  and  1996,
respectively,  leaving approximately $17.4 million of carryover available,  with
expiration  dates  beginning  in the year 2005.  The use of  preacquisition  net
operating losses and tax credit carryovers is subject to limitations  imposed by
the  Internal   Revenue  Code.  The  Company  does  not  anticipate  that  these
limitations will affect utilization of the carryovers prior to their expiration.


Tax  Examinations.  Examinations of the consolidated  federal income tax returns
for the years  1993-1996  by the  Internal  Revenue  Service  ("IRS")  have been
started.  The IRS has completed  examinations of the consolidated federal income
tax returns for the years 1990-1992 and has proposed certain tax assessments for
these years.  For years prior to 1990, the statute of limitations has closed and
all issues raised by the IRS examinations have been resolved. In addition, other
taxing authorities are currently examining the years 1994-1996 and have proposed
additional  tax  assessments  for which the  Company  believes  it has  recorded
adequate reserves.

Since most of these asserted tax deficiencies  represent temporary  differences,
subsequent  payments of taxes will not require  additional charges to income tax
expense. In addition,  accruals have been made for interest (net of tax benefit)
for  estimated  settlement  of the proposed tax  assessments.  Thus,  management
believes that final settlement of these matters will not have a material adverse
effect  on  the  Company's  consolidated  results  of  operations  or  financial
condition.



Note 9. Stockholders' Equity


Stock Option Plans.  During 1998,  various existing  Employee Stock Option Plans
were  combined and amended as the Kansas City  Southern  Industries,  Inc.  1991
Amended and  Restated  Stock Option and  Performance  Award Plan (as amended and
restated effective July 15, 1998) This amended Plan provides for the granting of
options to purchase up to 26.0 million  shares of the Company's  common stock by
officers and other designated employees.  Such options have been granted at 100%
of the  average  market  price of the  Company's  stock on the date of grant and
generally  may not be exercised  sooner than one year,  or longer than ten years
following the date of the grant,  except that options  outstanding  with limited
rights  ("LR's")  or  limited  stock  appreciation  rights  ("LSAR's"),   become
immediately exercisable upon certain defined circumstances constituting a change
in control of the Company.  The Plans include  provisions for stock appreciation
rights, LRs and LSAR's. All outstanding  options include LRs, except for options
granted to non-employee Directors.










Shares available for future grants at December 31, 1998 aggregated 9,206,449.


Stock Purchase Plan. The ESPP,  established in 1977,  provides to  substantially
all full-time employees of the Company,  certain  subsidiaries and certain other
affiliated  entities,  the right to  subscribe  to an  aggregate of 22.8 million
shares of common stock.  The purchase  price for shares under any stock offering
is to be 85% of the  average  market  price on either the  exercise  date or the
offering  date,  whichever is lower,  but in no event less than the par value of
the shares. At December 31, 1998, there were  approximately  11.6 million shares
available for future offerings.








The  weighted-average  fair value of purchase  rights granted under the Eleventh
and Tenth Offerings of the ESPP were $10.76 and $3.56, respectively.  There were
no offerings in 1997.


Forward Stock Purchase Contract. During 1995, the Company entered into a forward
stock purchase  contract  ("the  contract") as a means of securing a potentially
favorable  price for the repurchase of six million shares of its common stock in
connection with the stock repurchase  program  authorized by the Company's Board
of Directors on April 24, 1995. During 1998, no shares were purchased under this
arrangement.  During 1997 and 1996,  the Company  purchased  2.4 and 3.6 million
shares,  respectively,  under this  arrangement at an aggregate price of $39 and
$56  million  (including  transaction  premium),   respectively.   The  contract
contained  provisions which allowed the Company to elect a net cash or net share
settlement  in lieu of physical  settlement of the shares;  however,  all shares
were physically settled. The transaction was recorded in the Company's financial
statements  upon  settlement  of the contract in  accordance  with the Company's
accounting policies described in Note 1.

Employee Plan Funding Trust ("EPFT" or "Trust").  Effective  September 30, 1998,
the Company  terminated  the EPFT,  which was  established  by KCSI as a grantor
trust for the  purpose of  holding  shares of Series B  Preferred  stock for the
benefit of various KCSI employee benefit plans, including the ESOP, Stock Option
Plans and ESPP (collectively,  "Benefit Plans"). The EPFT was administered by an
independent bank trustee ("Trustee") and included in the Company's  consolidated
financial statements.

In October 1993, KCSI transferred one million shares of Series B Preferred stock
to the EPFT  for a  purchase  price of $200  million  (based  on an  independent
valuation),  which the Trust financed through KCSI. The indebtedness of the EPFT
to KCSI was  repayable  over 27 years with  interest  at 6% per  annum,  with no
principal  payments for the first three years.  Principal payments from the EPFT
to the  Company  of $21.3  million  since the date of  inception  decreased  the
indebtedness  to  $178.7  million,   plus  accrued  interest,  on  the  date  of
termination. As a result of these principal payments, 127,638 shares of Series B
Preferred  stock were released from the Trust's  suspense  account and available
for  distribution  to the Benefit  Plans.  None of these shares,  however,  were
distributed prior to termination of the EPFT.

In accordance  with the Agreement to terminate  the EPFT,  the Company  received
872,362 shares of Series B Preferred stock in full repayment of the indebtedness
from the Trust. In addition,  the remaining 



127,638  shares of Series B Preferred  stock were  converted by the Trustee into
KCSI Common stock, at the rate of 12 to 1, resulting in the issuance to the EPFT
of 1,531,656 shares of such Common stock. This Common stock was then transferred
by the  Trustee to KCSI and the Company  has set these  shares  aside for use in
connection with the KCSI Stock Option and Performance Award Plan, as amended and
restated effective July 15, 1998. Following the foregoing transactions, the EPFT
was terminated.

The  impact  of the  termination  of the  EPFT  on  the  Company's  consolidated
condensed  financial  statements was a reclassification  among the components of
the stockholder's equity accounts, with no change in the consolidated assets and
liabilities of the Company.

Treasury  Stock.  The  Company  issued  shares of common  stock from  Treasury -
1,663,349 in 1998,  2,031,162 in 1997,  1,557,804 in 1996 - to fund the exercise
of options and  subscriptions  under various  employee stock option and purchase
plans.   Approximately  67,000  shares  were  issued  in  conjunction  with  the
acquisition of Nelson. Treasury stock previously acquired had been accounted for
as if retired. The 1,531,656 shares received in conjunction with the termination
of the EPFT were added to Treasury  stock  during  1998.  The Company  purchased
shares as follows:  2,863,983 in 1997 and  9,829,599 in 1996.  Shares  purchased
during 1998 were not material.



Note 10. Profit Sharing and Other Postretirement Benefits

The  Company  maintains  various  plans  for the  benefit  of its  employees  as
described  below.  The  Company's  employee  benefit  expense  for  these  plans
aggregated $7.7, $6.3 and $5.4 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

Profit Sharing. Qualified profit sharing plans are maintained for most employees
not included in collective bargaining agreements.  Contributions for the Company
and its  subsidiaries  are made at the  discretion of the Boards of Directors in
amounts not to exceed the maximum allowable for federal income tax purposes.

401(k)  Plan.   The  Company's   401(k)  plan  permits   participants   to  make
contributions  by salary  reduction  pursuant to section  401(k) of the Internal
Revenue  Code.  The  Company  matches  contributions  up to a  maximum  of 3% of
compensation.

Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan.  In 1987 and  1988,  KCSI and DST  established
leveraged ESOPs for employees not covered by collective bargaining agreements by
collectively purchasing $69 million of KCSI common stock from Treasury at a then
current  market  price of $49 per  share  ($4.08  per share  effected  for stock
splits).  During 1990, the two plans were merged into one plan known as the KCSI
ESOP.  The  indebtedness  was retired in full during 1995. In October 1995,  the
ESOP  became a multiple  employer  plan  covering  both KCSI  employees  and DST
employees, and was renamed The Employee Stock Ownership Plan. KCSI contributions
to its  portion  of the  ESOP  are  based  on a  percentage  (determined  by the
Compensation  Committee of the Board of  Directors)  of wages earned by eligible
employees.

Other  Postretirement  Benefits.  The Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting Standards No. 106 "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement  Benefits
Other Than Pensions"  ("SFAS 106"),  effective  January 1, 1993. The Company and
several  of  its   subsidiaries   provide  certain   medical,   life  and  other
postretirement  benefits other than pensions to its retirees. With the exception
of the Gateway Western plans,  which are discussed  below,  the medical and life
plans are  available  to  employees  not  covered  under  collective  bargaining
arrangements,  who have  attained  age 60 and  rendered  ten  years of  service.
Individuals  employed as of  December  31,  1992 were  excluded  from a specific
service requirement.  The medical plan is contributory and provides benefits for
retirees, their covered dependents and beneficiaries.  Benefit expense begins to
accrue at age 40. The  medical  plan was  amended  effective  January 1, 1993 to
provide  for annual  adjustment  of retiree  contributions,  and also  contains,
depending  on the  plan  coverage  



selected,  certain  deductibles,  copayments,  coinsurance and coordination with
Medicare.  The life insurance plan is non-contributory and covers retirees only.
The Company's  policy,  in most cases,  is to fund benefits  payable under these
plans as the obligations  become due. However,  certain plan assets (e.g., money
market funds) do exist with respect to life insurance benefits.

During 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
132 "Employers' Disclosure about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits - an
amendment  of FASB  Statements  No. 87, 88, and 106" ("SFAS 132") and prior year
information  has been  included  pursuant  to SFAS  132.  SFAS  132  establishes
standardized  disclosure  requirements  for  pension  and  other  postretirement
benefit  plans,  requires  additional  information  on  changes  in the  benefit
obligations and fair values of plan assets, and eliminates  certain  disclosures
that are no longer  useful.  The  standard  does not change the  measurement  or
recognition of pension or postretirement benefit plans.



(i)      The accumulated  postretirement benefit obligation for the beginning of
         1997 does not agree to the ending  accumulated post retirement  benefit
         obligation  as of December  31, 1996 due to the addition of the Gateway
         Western effective as of January 1, 1997.


(ii)     Benefits  paid for the  reconciliation  of  accumulated  postretirement
         benefit  obligation  include both medical and life insurance  benefits,
         whereas benefits paid for the fair value of plan assets  reconciliation
         include only life  insurance  benefits.  Plan assets relate only to the
         life  insurance  benefits.  Medical  benefits are funded as obligations
         become due.






The Company's health care costs,  excluding Gateway Western,  are limited to the
increase in the Consumer Price Index ("CPI") with a maximum  annual  increase of
5%.  Accordingly,  health care costs in excess of the CPI limit will be borne by
the plan  participants,  and therefore  assumptions  regarding  health care cost
trend rates are not applicable.



Gateway Western's benefit plans are slightly different from those of the Company
and other subsidiaries. Gateway Western provides contributory health, dental and
life  insurance  benefits  to  substantially  all  of  its  active  and  retired
employees,   including  those  covered  by  collective  bargaining   agreements.
Effective  January  1,  1998,  existing  Gateway  Western  management  employees
converted to the Company's  benefit  plans.  In 1998, the assumed annual rate of
increase in health care costs for the  non-management  Gateway Western employees
choosing a preferred provider  organization was 7.5% and 6.5% for those choosing
the health maintenance  organization option,  decreasing over five years to 5.5%
and 4.5%, respectively, to remain level thereafter.

The health care cost trend rate  assumption has an effect on the Gateway Western
amounts represented.  An increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates by
one  percent  in 1998 and 1997 would  increase  the  accumulated  postretirement
benefit obligation by $0.3 million and $0.4 million, respectively. A decrease in
the assumed health care cost trend by one percent would decrease the accumulated
postretirement  benefit  obligation by $0.2 million in 1998 and 1997. The effect
of this change on the aggregate of the service and interest  cost  components of
the net periodic postretirement benefit is not significant.



Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies

Minority  Interest  Purchase  Agreements.  Agreements  between  KCSI  and  Janus
minority  owners  contain,  among other  provisions,  mandatory  stock  purchase
provisions  whereby  under  certain  circumstances,  KCSI would be  required  to
purchase the minority  interest of Janus.  If all of the provisions of the Janus
minority owner agreements became  effective,  KCSI would be required to purchase
the respective  minority  interests at a cost estimated to be approximately $456
million as of December 31,  1998,  compared to $337 and $220 million at December
31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.



Litigation Reserves. In the opinion of management, claims or lawsuits incidental
to the  business  of the  Company  and its  subsidiaries  have  been  adequately
provided for in the consolidated financial statements.

Duncan case
In 1998, a jury in Beauregard Parish,  Louisiana returned a verdict against KCSR
in the amount of $16.3 million.  This Louisiana state case arose from a railroad
crossing accident which occurred at Oretta,  Louisiana on September 11, 1994, in
which three individuals were injured. Of the three, one was injured fatally, one
was rendered quadriplegic and the third suffered less serious injuries.

Subsequent  to the  verdict,  the  trial  court  held that the  plaintiffs  were
entitled to interest on the judgment from the date the suit was filed, dismissed
the verdict  against one defendant and reallocated the amount of that verdict to
the remaining  defendants.  The resulting total judgment against KCSR,  together
with interest, was $25.4 million as of December 31, 1998.

The judgment has been appealed and  independent  trial counsel has informed KCSR
management that the evidence presented at trial established no negligent conduct
on the part of KCSR and expressed confidence that the verdict will ultimately be
reversed.  KCSR management believes it has meritorious defenses in this case and
that it will  ultimately  prevail  on  appeal.  If the  verdict  were to  stand,
however,  the judgment and interest are in excess of existing insurance coverage
and could  have an  adverse  effect on the  Company's  consolidated  results  of
operations and financial position.

Bogalusa Cases
In July  1996,  KCSR was  named as one of  twenty-seven  defendants  in  various
lawsuits in Louisiana and  Mississippi  arising from the explosion of a rail car
loaded with chemicals in Bogalusa, Louisiana on October 23, 1995. As a result of
the  explosion,  nitrogen  dioxide and oxides of nitrogen were released into the
atmosphere over parts of that town and the surrounding area causing  evacuations
and injuries.  Approximately  25,000 residents of Louisiana and Mississippi have
asserted  claims  to  recover  damages  allegedly  caused  by  exposure  to  the
chemicals.

KCSR neither  owned nor leased the rail car or the rails on which it was located
at the time of the explosion in Bogalusa.  KCSR did, however,  move the rail car
from Jackson to Vicksburg,  Mississippi, where it was loaded with chemicals, and
back to Jackson  where the car was  tendered to the  Illinois  Central  Railroad
Company ("IC").  The explosion occurred more than 15 days after the Company last
transported  the rail car.  The car was  loaded by the  shipper in excess of its
standard weight when it was  transported by the Company to interchange  with the
IC.

The Mississippi lawsuit arising from the chemical release has now been scheduled
for trial in late March 1999. KCSR sought  dismissal of these suits in the state
appellate  courts,  and ultimately in the United States  Supreme Court,  but was
unsuccessful in obtaining the relief sought.

KCSR believes  that its exposure to liability in these cases is remote.  If KCSR
were to be found  liable for punitive  damages in these  cases,  such a judgment
could have a material  adverse effect on the results of operations and financial
position of the Company.


Diesel Fuel Commitments and Hedging  Activities.  From time to time, KCSR enters
into forward purchase commitments for diesel fuel as a means of securing volumes
and reducing  overall  cost.  The  contracts  normally  require KCSR to purchase
certain  quantities  of  diesel  fuel  at  defined  prices  established  at  the
origination of the contract.

As a result of fuel  commitments  made in 1995,  KCSR saved  approximately  $3.7
million in operating expenses in 1996.  Minimal  commitments were negotiated for
1997  because  of higher  fuel  costs.  At the end of 1997,  KCSR  entered  into
purchase  commitments for diesel fuel for approximately 27% of its 1998 expected
usage.  As a result of fuel prices  remaining  below the committed  price during
1998,  these  



purchase  commitments  resulted  in  a  higher  cost  in  1998  of
approximately  $1.7 million.  At December 31, 1998, the Company has entered into
purchase commitments for approximately 32% of its expected 1999 usage.

KCSR has a program to hedge against fluctuations in the price of its diesel fuel
purchases. The program is currently comprised of swap transactions accounted for
as hedges.  Any gains or losses associated with changes in market value of these
hedges are deferred and  recognized as a component of fuel cost in the period in
which the hedged fuel is purchase and used.  To the extent KCSR hedges  portions
of its fuel purchases, it may not fully benefit from decreases in fuel prices.

Beginning in 1998,  KCSR entered into fuel swaps for  approximately  two million
gallons per month, or 37% of its anticipated  1998 fuel  requirements.  The fuel
swap contracts had expiration dates through February 28, 1999 and are correlated
to market benchmarks. Hedge positions are monitored to ensure that they will not
exceed actual fuel  requirements in any period.  During 1998, KCSR made payments
of  approximately  $2.3 million  relating to these fuel swap  transactions  as a
result of actual fuel  prices  remaining  lower than the fuel swap price.  As of
December  31,  1998,  the Company has entered  into fuel swap  transactions  for
approximately 16% of expected 1999 usage.


Foreign  Exchange  Matters.  As  discussed  in Note 1, in  connection  with  the
Company's  investment in Grupo TFM, a Mexican company,  and Nelson, an 80% owned
subsidiary  with  operations  in the United  Kingdom,  the  Company  follows the
requirements  outlined  in SFAS 52 (and  related  authoritative  guidance)  with
respect to financial accounting and reporting for foreign currency  transactions
and for  translating  foreign  currency  financial  statements from the entity's
functional currency into U.S. dollars.

The  purchase  price  paid by Grupo TFM for 80% of the  common  stock of TFM was
fixed in Mexican pesos;  accordingly,  the U.S. dollar equivalent  fluctuated as
the U.S.  dollar/Mexican  peso  exchange rate  changed.  The  Company's  capital
contribution  (approximately  $298 million U.S.) to Grupo TFM in connection with
the initial  installment  of the TFM  purchase  price was made based on the U.S.
dollar/Mexican peso exchange rate on January 31, 1997.

Grupo TFM paid the remaining 60% of the purchase  price in Mexican pesos on June
23, 1997. As discussed  above,  the final  installment was funded using proceeds
from Grupo TFM debt  financing and the sale of 24.6% of Grupo TFM to the Mexican
Government.  In the event that the proceeds  from these  arrangements  would not
have provided funds  sufficient  for Grupo TFM to make the final  installment of
the  purchase  price,  the  Company may have been  required  to make  additional
capital contributions. Accordingly, in order to hedge a portion of the Company's
exposure  to a  fluctuations  in the value of the  Mexican  peso versus the U.S.
dollar,  the Company  entered  into two separate  forward  contracts to purchase
Mexican  pesos - $98 million in February 1997 and $100 million in March 1997. In
April 1997, the Company  realized a $3.8 million pretax gain in connection  with
these contracts.  This gain was deferred until the final  installment of the TFM
purchase  price was made in June 1997,  at which time, it was accounted for as a
component  of the  Company's  investment  in Grupo  TFM.  These  contracts  were
intended to hedge only a portion of the Company's  exposure related to the final
installment of the purchase price and not any other transactions or balances.

During 1997 and 1998,  Mexico's economy was classified as "highly  inflationary"
as  defined in SFAS 52.  Accordingly,  the U.S.  dollar was  assumed to be Grupo
TFM's functional currency,  and any gains or losses from translating Grupo TFM's
financial statements into U.S. dollars were included in the determination of its
net income.  Equity losses from Grupo TFM included in the  Company's  results of
operations reflect the Company's share of such translation gains and losses.



Effective  January 1, 1999,  the SEC staff declared that Mexico should no longer
be considered a highly inflationary economy.  Accordingly, the Company is in the
process of  performing  an analysis  under the  guidance of SFAS 52 to determine
whether  the U.S.  dollar or the Mexican  peso should be used as the  functional
currency for financial  accounting and reporting purposes subsequent to December
31,  1998.  Information  for this  analysis  is  currently  being  compiled  and
reviewed.  Management  expects to complete this analysis by the end of the first
quarter  1999.  If the  peso  is  determined  to be the  appropriate  functional
currency,  the effect of translating Grupo TFM's financial statements could have
a material impact on the Company's results of operations and financial position.

The  Company  completed  its  acquisition  of 80% of Nelson  on April 20,  1998.
Nelson's  principal  operations  are in the United Kingdom and,  therefore,  its
financial statements are accounted for using the British pound as the functional
currency.  Any gains or losses arising from  transactions not denominated in the
British  pound are recorded as a foreign  currency  gain or loss and included in
the results of  operations  of Nelson.  The  translation  of Nelson's  financial
statements  from the British pound into the U.S. dollar results in an adjustment
to stockholders' equity as a cumulative translation adjustment.  At December 31,
1998, the cumulative translation adjustment was not material.

The  Company  continues  to  evaluate  existing  alternatives  with  respect  to
utilizing  foreign currency  instruments to hedge its U.S. dollar  investment in
Grupo TFM and Nelson as market conditions change or exchange rates fluctuate. At
December 31,  1998,  the Company had no  outstanding  foreign  currency  hedging
instruments.


Environmental  Liabilities.  The Company's transportation operations are subject
to  extensive  regulation  under  environmental  protection  laws  and its  land
holdings have been used for  transportation  purposes or leased to third-parties
for commercial and industrial  purposes.  The Company  records  liabilities  for
remediation and restoration  costs related to past activities when the Company's
obligation  is  probable  and the costs can be  reasonably  estimated.  Costs of
ongoing compliance activities to current operations are expensed as incurred.

The Company's recorded liabilities for these issues represent its best estimates
(on an  undiscounted  basis) of remediation  and  restoration  costs that may be
required to comply with  present  laws and  regulations.  At December  31, 1998,
these  recorded  liabilities  were not material.  Although these costs cannot be
predicted  with  certainty,  management  believes  that the ultimate  outcome of
identified  matters  will not have a material  adverse  effect on the  Company's
consolidated results of operations or financial condition.


Panama Railroad Concession. The Government of Panama has granted a concession to
the Panama Canal Railway Company  ("PCRC"),  a joint venture of KCSI and Mi-Jack
Products,  Inc.,  to  operate a railroad  between  Panama  City and Colon.  Upon
completion  of certain  infrastructure  improvements,  the PCRC will  operate an
approximate 47-mile railroad running parallel to the Panama Canal and connecting
parts of the Atlantic and Pacific  Oceans.  The PCRC has  committed to making at
least $30 million in capital  improvements  and  investments  in Panama over the
next five year period. The Company expects its contribution  related to the PCRC
project to be less than $15 million.  PCRC is in the process of  evaluating  the
overall  needs  and  requirements  of  the  project  and  alternative  financing
opportunities.



Note 12. Control

Subsidiaries  and Affiliates.  In connection with its acquisition of an interest
in Janus,  the Company  entered into an  agreement  which,  among other  things,
provides:  i) that Janus  management  shall establish and implement  policy with
respect to investment  advisory and portfolio  management activity of Janus; ii)
that any change in  management  philosophy,  style or approach  with  respect to
investment advisory and 



portfolio  management  policies of Janus  shall be  mutually  agreed by KCSI and
Janus  management;  and iii) for rights of first refusal on the part of minority
stockholders, Janus and the Company with respect to certain sales of Janus stock
by the  minority  stockholders.  The  agreement  also  requires  the  Company to
purchase  the  shares of  minority  stockholders  in certain  circumstances.  In
addition,  in the event of a "change of ownership" of the Company, as defined in
the  agreement,  the  Company  may be required to sell its stock of Janus to the
minority  stockholders  or to purchase such holders'  Janus stock.  Purchase and
sales  transactions under the agreements are to be made based upon a multiple of
the net earnings of Janus and/or fair market  value  determinations,  as defined
therein (see Note 11 for additional details).

Under the Investment  Company Act of 1940, certain changes in ownership of Janus
or Berger may result in termination of its investment  advisory  agreements with
the mutual  funds and other  accounts  it  manages,  requiring  approval of fund
shareholders  and other account holders to obtain new agreements.  Additionally,
there are Janus and Berger  officers and directors that serve as officers and/or
directors of certain of the registered  investment  companies to which Janus and
Berger act as investment advisors.

DST, an approximate  32% owned  unconsolidated  affiliate of the Company,  has a
Stockholders' Rights Agreement.  Under certain circumstances following a "change
in  control"  of KCSI,  as  defined  in DST's  Stockholders'  Rights  Agreement,
substantial dilution of the Company's interest in DST could result.

The Company is party to certain  agreements  with TMM covering the Grupo TFM and
Mexrail  ventures,  which  contain  "change of control"  provisions,  provisions
intended  to  preserve  Company's  and  TMM's  proportionate  ownership  of  the
ventures,  and super  majority  provisions  with  respect  to voting on  certain
significant transactions.  Such agreements also provide a right of first refusal
in the event that either party initiates a divestiture of its equity interest in
Grupo TFM or Mexrail. Under certain circumstances,  such agreements could affect
the Company's ownership percentage and rights in these equity affiliates.


Employees.  The  Company  and  certain of its  subsidiaries  have  entered  into
agreements with employees  whereby,  upon defined  circumstances  constituting a
change in control of the Company or  subsidiary,  certain stock  options  become
exercisable,  certain benefit  entitlements  are  automatically  funded and such
employees  are  entitled  to  specified   cash  payments  upon   termination  of
employment.


Assets.  The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have established  trusts to
provide for the funding of corporate  commitments and  entitlements of officers,
directors, employees and others in the event of a specified change in control of
the Company or subsidiary.  Assets held in such trusts at December 31, 1998 were
not material. Depending upon the circumstances at the time of any such change in
control,  the most  significant  factor of which would be the highest price paid
for KCSI common stock by a party seeking to control the Company,  funding of the
Company's trusts could be very substantial.


Debt. Certain loan agreements and debt instruments entered into or guaranteed by
the Company and its subsidiaries provide for default in the event of a specified
change in control of the Company or particular subsidiaries of the Company.


Stockholder  Rights Plan. On September  19, 1995,  the Board of Directors of the
Company declared a dividend distribution of one Right for each outstanding share
of the Company's common stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), to
the  stockholders  of record on  October  12,  1995.  Each  Right  entitles  the
registered  holder to purchase from the Company 1/1,000th of a share of Series A
Preferred Stock (the "Preferred Stock") or in some circumstances,  Common Stock,
other  securities,  cash or other  assets as the case may be, at a price of $210
per share, subject to adjustment.



The  Rights,  which are  automatically  attached  to the Common  Stock,  are not
exercisable or transferable apart from the Common Stock until the tenth calendar
day following the earlier to occur of (unless extended by the Board of Directors
and subject to the earlier redemption or expiration of the Rights): (i) the date
of a public  announcement  that an acquiring  person  acquired,  or obtained the
right to acquire,  beneficial ownership of 20 percent or more of the outstanding
shares of the Common  Stock of the  Company (or 15 percent in the case that such
person  is  considered  an  "adverse  person"),  or  (ii)  the  commencement  or
announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer that would
result in an  acquiring  person  beneficially  owning 20 percent or more of such
outstanding  shares of Common  Stock of the  Company  (or 15 percent in the case
that such person is considered an "adverse person").  Until exercised, the Right
will  have  no  rights  as a  stockholder  of the  Company,  including,  without
limitation,  the  right to vote or to  receive  dividends.  In  connection  with
certain  business  combinations  resulting in the  acquisition of the Company or
dispositions  of more than 50% of Company assets or earnings  power,  each Right
shall  thereafter  have the right to receive,  upon the exercise  thereof at the
then current  exercise price of the Right,  that number of shares of the highest
priority  voting  securities  of  the  acquiring  company  (or  certain  of  its
affiliates)  that at the time of such  transaction  would have a market value of
two times the  exercise  price of the Right.  The Rights  expire on October  12,
2005, unless earlier redeemed by the Company as described below.

At any time  prior to the tenth  calendar  day after  the first  date  after the
public announcement that an acquiring person has acquired  beneficial  ownership
of 20  percent  (or 15  percent in some  instances)  or more of the  outstanding
shares of the Common Stock of the Company,  the Company may redeem the Rights in
whole,  but not in part,  at a price of  $0.005  per  Right.  In  addition,  the
Company's right of redemption may be reinstated following an inadvertent trigger
of the Rights (as  determined by the Board) if an acquiring  person  reduces its
beneficial  ownership to 10 percent or less of the outstanding  shares of Common
Stock of the Company in a transaction  or series of  transactions  not involving
the Company.

The Series A Preferred shares  purchasable upon exercise of the Rights will have
a cumulative  quarterly  dividend rate set by the Board of Directors or equal to
1,000 times the  dividend  declared on the Common Stock for such  quarter.  Each
share will have the voting  rights of one vote on all matters voted at a meeting
of the  stockholders  for each 1/1,000th  share of preferred  stock held by such
stockholder.  In the event of any merger,  consolidation or other transaction in
which the common  shares are  exchanged,  each Series A Preferred  share will be
entitled to receive an amount equal to 1,000 times the amount to be received per
common share.  In the event of a liquidation,  the holders of Series A Preferred
shares will be entitled to receive $1,000 per share or an amount per share equal
to 1,000 times the aggregate  amount to be  distributed  per share to holders of
Common  Stock.  The  shares  will not be  redeemable.  The vote of  holders of a
majority of the Series A Preferred  shares,  voting together as a class, will be
required for any amendment to the Company's  Certificate of Incorporation  which
would  materially  and  adversely  alter or change the  powers,  preferences  or
special rights of such shares.



Note 13. Industry Segments

As discussed in Note 1, in 1998, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 131.
SFAS  131  establishes  standards  for  the  manner  in  which  public  business
enterprises  report  information  about operating  segments in annual  financial
statements  and requires  disclosure  of selected  information  about  operating
segments in interim  financial  reports  issued to  shareholders.  SFAS 131 also
establishes  standards  for related  disclosures  about  products and  services,
geographic  areas and major  customers.  The adoption of SFAS 131 did not have a
material  impact on the  disclosures of the Company.  Prior year  information is
reflected pursuant to SFAS 131.



The Company's two segments, aligned to reflect the Company's current operations,
are as follows:

Transportation.  The Company  operates a Class I Common Carrier  railroad system
through its wholly-owned subsidiary,  KCSR. As a common carrier, KCSR's customer
base includes electric generating utilities and a wide range of companies in the
petroleum/chemical,  agricultural and paper processing industries, among others.
The railroad system operates primarily in the United States, from the Midwest to
the Gulf of Mexico and on an  East-West  axis from  Dallas,  Texas to  Meridian,
Mississippi. In addition, the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary Gateway Western,
operates a regional  common  carrier rail system  primarily on an East-West axis
from East St.  Louis,  Illinois to Kansas  City,  Missouri.  Like KCSR,  Gateway
Western serves customers in a wide range of industries.

KCSR and Gateway  Western's  revenues and  earnings  are  dependent on providing
reliable  service to its customers at competitive  rates,  the general  economic
conditions in the  geographic  region it serves,  and its ability to effectively
compete  against   alternative   forms  of  surface   transportation,   such  as
over-the-road  truck  transportation.  KCSR and  Gateway  Western's  ability  to
construct  and  maintain  its  roadway  in order to provide  safe and  efficient
transportation  service is important to its ongoing viability as a rail carrier.
Additionally,  the containment of costs and expenses is important in maintaining
a competitive  market position,  particularly  with respect to employee costs as
approximately  85% of KCSR and Gateway  Western  combined  employees are covered
under various collective bargaining agreements.

The  Transportation  segment also  includes the Company's  equity  investment in
Grupo  TFM,  a Mexican  entity.  Grupo TFM has  certain  risks  associated  with
operating  in  Mexico,  including,  among  others,  foreign  currency  exchange,
cultural  differences,  varying labor and operating  practices,  and differences
between the U.S. and Mexican economies.

Also  included  in  the   Transportation   segment  are  several  less  material
subsidiaries  (most of which provide  support and/or services for KCSR), as well
as equity earnings from investments in certain  unconsolidated  affiliates other
than  Grupo TFM  (including  Southern  Capital  and  Mexrail),  holding  company
expenses and miscellaneous investment activities.


Financial  Services.  Janus (an 82% owned  subsidiary,  diluted)  and  Berger (a
wholly-owned  subsidiary)  manage  investments  for  mutual  funds  and  private
accounts. Both companies operate throughout the United States, with headquarters
in Denver,  Colorado.  Beginning in December  1998,  Janus  initiated  portfolio
offerings  in  countries  outside  of the  United  States.  Janus  assets  under
management  at December  31, 1998,  1997 and 1996 were  $108.3,  $67.8 and $46.7
billion, respectively. Berger assets under management at December 31, 1998, 1997
and 1996 were $,4.0, $3.8 and $3.6 billion, respectively.

Nelson, an 80% owned United Kingdom subsidiary  acquired in April 1998, provides
investment  advice  and  investment  management  services  to  individuals  that
generally are retired or contemplating  retirement. At December 31, 1998, assets
under management approximated $1.2 billion.

Financial  Services revenues and operating income are driven primarily by growth
in assets under management.  The potential for growth may be negatively affected
by a decline in the stock and bond  markets  and/or an  increase  in the rate of
return of alternative  investments,  which could negatively impact the Financial
Services results of operations and financial position.  In addition,  the mutual
fund market,  in general,  faces increasing  competition as the number of mutual
funds  continues to increase,  marketing and  distribution  channels become more
creative and complex,  and investors  place greater  emphasis on published  fund
recommendations and investment category rankings.



DST is  included as an equity  investment  reported  in the  Financial  Services
segment.  DST,  together  with its  subsidiaries  and joint  ventures,  provides
sophisticated information processing and computer software services and products
to the financial  services  industry  (primarily to mutual funds and  investment
managers),  communications  industries  and  other  service  industries.  DST is
organized into three operating segments: financial services, customer management
and output solutions. DST operates throughout the United States, with operations
in Kansas City,  Northern California and various locations on the East Coast, as
well as internationally in Canada, Europe, Africa and the Pacific Rim.

As  discussed  in Note 2, on  December  21,  1998,  DST and USCS  announced  the
completion of the merger of USCS with a wholly-owned DST subsidiary.  The merger
expands DST's presence in the output solutions and customer  management software
and  services  industries.  USCS is a leading  provider of  customer  management
software to the cable television and convergence industries.

The earnings of DST are dependent in part upon the further  growth of the mutual
fund  industry  in the United  States,  DST's  ability to  continue to adapt its
technology to meet  increasingly  complex and rapidly changing  requirements and
various other factors  including,  but not limited to: reliance on a centralized
processing facility; further development of international businesses;  continued
equity in earnings from joint ventures;  and competition  from other third party
providers of similar services and products as well as from in-house providers.


Segment Financial Information. Sales between segments were not material in 1998,
1997 or 1996.  Certain  amounts in prior years'  segment  information  have been
reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.












Note 14. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Fourth quarter 1998 includes a one-time pretax non-cash charge of  approximately
36.0 million  ($23.2  million  after-tax,  or $0.21 per share)  arising from the
merger of a wholly-owned  DST  subsidiary  with USCS.  This charge  reflects the
Company's  reduced  ownership of DST (from 41% to approximately  32%),  together
with the Company's  proportionate  share of DST and USCS fourth quarter  related
merger costs. See detail discussion in Notes 2 and 5.







Fourth Quarter 1997 includes an after-tax  charge of $158.1 million,  ($1.47 per
basic and diluted share) representing restructuring,  asset impairment and other
charges. See detailed discussion in Notes 1, 3 and 6.




(i)  The various  components of the  Statement of Operations  were restated from
     those  reported in the Company's Form 10-Q for the three months ended March
     31, 1997.  This  restatement  was  attributable to the inclusion of Gateway
     Western as an unconsolidated  wholly-owned  subsidiary during first quarter
     1997 pending approval of the Company's  acquisition of Gateway Western from
     the STB.  Upon  receiving  STB  approval in May 1997,  Gateway  Western was
     included in the Company's  consolidated financial statements retroactive to
     January 1, 1997.

(ii) The  accumulation  of 1997's four  quarters for Basic and Diluted  earnings
     (loss)  per share  does not total the  Basic and  Diluted  loss per  share,
     respectively,  for the year ended  December  31,  1997 due to Common  stock
     repurchase  and issuance  transactions  throughout the year, as well as the
     anti-dilutive  nature  of  options  in the year  ended  December  31,  1997
     calculations.



Item  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

None.




                                 Part III

The Company has incorporated by reference certain responses to the Items of this
Part III pursuant to Rule 12b-23 under the Exchange Act and General  Instruction
G(3) to Form 10-K.  The  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement  for the annual
meeting of stockholders  scheduled for May 6, 1999 ("Proxy  Statement")  will be
filed no later than 120 days after December 31, 1998.

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Company

(a)     Directors of the Company

The  information  set forth in response to Item 401 of Regulation  S-K under the
heading "Proposal 1 - Election of Two Directors" and "The Board of Directors" in
the Company's  Proxy  Statement is  incorporated  herein by reference in partial
response to this Item 10.

(b)     Executive Officers of the Company

The  information  set  forth in  response  to Item 401 of  Regulation  S-K under
"Executive  Officers of the Company," an unnumbered  Item in Part I (immediately
following Item 4, Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders),  of this
Form 10-K is incorporated  herein by reference in partial  response to this Item
10.

The  information  set forth in response to Item 405 of Regulation  S-K under the
heading  "Section  16(a) of Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance" in the
Company's  Proxy  Statement  is  incorporated  herein by  reference  in  partial
response to this Item 10.


Item 11.  Executive Compensation

The  information  set  forth in  response  to Item 402 of  Regulation  S-K under
"Management Compensation" and "Compensation of Directors" in the Company's Proxy
Statement,  (other than The Compensation  and  Organization  Committee Report on
Executive  Compensation  and the Stock  Performance  Graph),  is incorporated by
reference in response to this Item 11.


Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The  information  set forth in response to Item 403 of Regulation  S-K under the
heading  "Principal  Stockholders and Stock Owned  Beneficially by Directors and
Certain  Executive   Officers"  in  the  Company's  Proxy  Statement  is  hereby
incorporated by reference in response to this Item 12.

The Company has no knowledge of any  arrangement the operation of which may at a
subsequent date result in a change of control of the Company.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

None





                               Part IV


Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)     List of Documents filed as part of this Report

(1)     Financial Statements

The  financial  statements  and  related  notes,  together  with the  report  of
PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP  dated  March  4,  1999,  appear  in Part II Item 8,
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.

(2)     Financial Statement Schedules

The  schedules  and  exhibits  for  which  provision  is made in the  applicable
accounting  regulation of the Securities and Exchange  Commission appear in Part
II Item 8,  Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data,  under the Index to
Financial Statements of this Form 10-K.

(3)  List of Exhibits

(a)     Exhibits

The Company has  incorporated by reference  herein certain exhibits as specified
below pursuant to Rule 12b-32 under the Exchange Act.

(2)  Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or succession
        (Inapplicable)

(3)     Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws

        Articles of Incorporation

        3.1       Exhibit  4 to  Company's  Registration  Statement  on Form S-8
                  originally  filed  September  19,  1986  (Commission  File No.
                  33-8880),  Certificate of Incorporation as amended through May
                  14, 1985, is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.1

        3.2       Exhibit  4.1 to  Company's  Current  Report  on Form 8-K dated
                  October 1, 1993 (Commission  File No. 1-4717),  Certificate of
                  Designation  dated  September 29, 1993  Establishing  Series B
                  Convertible  Preferred  Stock,  par  value  $1.00,  is  hereby
                  incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.2

        3.3       Exhibit 3.1 to  Company's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1994 (Commission  File No. 1-4717),  Amendment to
                  Company's  Certificate of  Incorporation  to set par value for
                  common  stock and  increase  the number of  authorized  common
                  shares dated May 6, 1994, is hereby  incorporated by reference
                  as Exhibit 3.3

        3.4       Exhibit 3.4 to  Company's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December  31,  1996  (Commission  File  No.  1-4717),  Amended
                  Certificate  of  Designation  Establishing  the New  Series  A
                  Preferred Stock,  par value $1.00,  dated November 7, 1995, is
                  hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.4



        3.5       Exhibit 3.5 to  Company's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December  31,  1996   (Commission   File  No.   1-4717),   The
                  Certificate  of Amendment  dated May 12, 1987 of the Company's
                  Certificate of Incorporation  adding the Sixteenth  paragraph,
                  is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3.5

        Bylaws

        3.6       The Company's  By-Laws,  as amended and restated September 17,
                  1998, are attached to this Form 10-K as Exhibit 3.6


(4)     Instruments Defining the Right of Security Holders, Including Indentures

        4.1       The Fourth, Seventh,  Eighth, Twelfth,  Thirteenth,  Fifteenth
                  and   Sixteenth   paragraphs   of   Exhibit   3.1  hereto  are
                  incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.1

        4.2       Article I, Sections 1,3 and 11 of Article II, Article V and 
                  Article VIII of Exhibit 3.6 hereto are incorporated by 
                  reference as Exhibit 4.2

        4.3       The  Certificate  of  Designation  dated  September  29,  1993
                  establishing  Series B Convertible  Preferred Stock, par value
                  $1.00,   which  is   attached   hereto  as  Exhibit   3.2,  is
                  incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.3

        4.4       The Amended  Certificate of Designation dated November 7, 1995
                  establishing  the New  Series A  Preferred  Stock,  par  value
                  $1.00,   which  is   attached   hereto  as  Exhibit   3.4,  is
                  incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.4

        4.5       Exhibit  4  to   Company's   Form  S-3  filed  June  19,  1992
                  (Commission  File  No.  33-47198),  the  Indenture  to a  $300
                  million Shelf  Registration of Debt  Securities  dated July 1,
                  1992, is hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.5

        4.6       Exhibit  4(a) to  Company's  Form S-3  filed  March  29,  1993
                  (Commission  File  No.  33-60192),  the  Indenture  to a  $200
                  million  Medium  Term Notes  Registration  of Debt  Securities
                  dated July 1, 1992,  is hereby  incorporated  by  reference as
                  Exhibit 4.6

        4.7       Exhibit  99 to  Company's  Form 8-A  dated  October  24,  1995
                  (Commission File No. 1-4717),  which is the Stockholder Rights
                  Agreement  by and between  the  Company  and Harris  Trust and
                  Savings  Bank  dated  as of  September  19,  1995,  is  hereby
                  incorporated by reference as Exhibit 4.7

(9)     Voting Trust Agreement
        (Inapplicable)

(10)    Material Contracts

        10.1      Exhibit I to  Company's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
                  December 31, 1987 (Commission  File No. 1-4717),  The Director
                  Indemnification Agreement, is hereby incorporated by reference
                  as Exhibit 10.1

        10.2      Exhibit B to Company's  Definitive  Proxy  Statement  for 1987
                  Annual  Stockholder  Meeting dated April 6, 1987, The Director
                  Indemnification Agreement, is hereby incorporated by reference
                  as Exhibit 10.2



        10.3      The  Indenture  dated  July 1,  1992 to a $300  million  Shelf
                  Registration  of Debt  Securities,  which is  incorporated  by
                  reference  as Exhibit 4.5 hereto,  is hereby  incorporated  by
                  reference as Exhibit 10.3

        10.4      Exhibit H to  Company's  Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended
                  December 31, 1987  (Commission  File No. 1-4717),  The Officer
                  Indemnification Agreement, is hereby incorporated by reference
                  as Exhibit 10.4

        10.5      Exhibit 10.1 to Company's Form 10-Q for the period ended March
                  31,  1997  (Commission  File  No.  1-4717),  The  Kansas  City
                  Southern  Railway  Company  Directors'  Deferred  Fee  Plan as
                  adopted  August 20, 1982 and the amendment  thereto  effective
                  March  19,  1997 to  such  plan,  is  hereby  incorporated  by
                  reference as Exhibit 10.5

        10.6      Exhibit 10.4 to Company's  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1990 (Commission File No. 1-4717), Description of
                  the  Company's  1991  incentive  compensation  plan, is hereby
                  incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.6

        10.7      The Indenture dated July 1, 1992 to a $200 million Medium Term
                  Notes  Registration of Debt Securities,  which is incorporated
                  as Exhibit 4.6 hereto, is hereby  incorporated by reference as
                  Exhibit 10.7

        10.8      Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's  Form  10-Q for the  quarterly
                  period  ended  June 30,  1997  (Commission  File No.  1-4717),
                  Five-Year  Competitive  Advance and Revolving  Credit Facility
                  Agreement  dated May 2, 1997,  by and  between the Company and
                  the lenders named therein, is hereby incorporated by reference
                  as Exhibit 10.8

        10.9      Exhibit 10.4 in the DST Systems, Inc.  Registration  Statement
                  on Form S-1 dated October 30, 1995,  as amended  (Registration
                  No. 33-96526), Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, dated October 23,
                  1995,  by and between the Company and DST  Systems,  Inc.,  is
                  hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.9

        10.10     Exhibit 10.6 to the DST Systems,  Inc.  Annual  Report on Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 (Commission File No.
                  1-14036), the 1995 Restatement of The Employee Stock Ownership
                  Plan and Trust Agreement,  is hereby incorporated by reference
                  as Exhibit 10.10

        10.11     Exhibit 4.1 to the DST Systems, Inc. Registration Statement on
                  Form S-1 dated October 30, 1995, as amended  (Registration No.
                  33-96526), The Registration Rights Agreement dated October 24,
                  1995 by and between DST  Systems,  Inc.  and the  Company,  is
                  hereby incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.11

        10.12     Exhibit  10.18 to  Company's  Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                  December  31, 1996  (Commission  File No.  1-4717),  Directors
                  Deferred  Fee Plan,  adopted  August  20,  1982,  amended  and
                  restated February 1, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference
                  as Exhibit 10.12

        10.13     Appendix  D to the  Company's  Notice  and  Proxy  Statement
                  for A Special Meeting  of  Stockholders  to held  July 15,  
                  1998,  Kansas  City  Southern Industries,  Inc.  1991 Amended
                  and Restated  Stock Option and  Performance Award Plan,  as 
                  amended and restated  effective  July 15,  1998,  is hereby 
                  incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.13

        10.14     Exhibit  10.20 to  Company's  Form  10-K  for the  year  ended
                  December 31, 1997  (Commission  File No.  1-4717),  Employment
                  Agreement,  as amended and restated September 18, 1997, by and
                  between  the   Company   and  Landon  H.   Rowland  is  hereby
                  incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.14


        10.15     Employment Agreement,  as amended and restated January 1, 
                  1999, by and between the Company,  The Kansas City Southern
                  Railway  Company and Michael R. Haverty, is attached to this 
                  Form 10-K as Exhibit 10.15

        10.16     Employment Agreement, as amended and restated January 1, 1999,
                  by and between  the Company and Joseph D.  Monello is attached
                  to this Form 10-K as Exhibit 10.16

        10.17     Employment Agreement, as amended and restated January 1, 1999,
                  by and between the Company and Danny R. Carpenter is attached
                  to this Form 10-K as Exhibit 10.17

        10.18     Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc. Executive Plan, as 
                  amended and restated effective November 17, 1998, is attached
                  to this Form 10-K as Exhibit 10.18

(11)    Statement Re Computation of Per Share Earnings
        (Inapplicable)

(12)    Statements Re Computation of Ratios

        12.1      The Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges prepared
                  pursuant to Item  601(b)(12) of Regulation  S-K is attached to
                  this Form 10-K as Exhibit 12.1

(13)    Annual  Report  to  Security  Holders,  Form  10-Q or  Quarterly  
        Report to Security Holders 
        (Inapplicable)

(16)    Letter Re Change in Certifying Accountant
        (Inapplicable)

(18)    Letter Re Change in Accounting Principles
        (Inapplicable)

(21)    Subsidiaries of the Company

        21.1      The list of the Subsidiaries of the Company prepared  pursuant
                  to Item  601(b)(21) of Regulation S-K is attached to this Form
                  10-K as Exhibit 21.1

(22)    Published Report Regarding Matters Submitted to Vote of Security Holders
        (Inapplicable)

(23)    Consents of Experts and Counsel

        23.1      The Consent of Independent  Accountants  prepared  pursuant to
                  Item  601(b)(23)  of  Regulation  S-K is attached to this Form
                  10-K as Exhibit 23.1

(24)    Power of Attorney
        (Inapplicable)

(27)    Financial Data Schedule

        27.1      The  Financial  Data  Schedule   prepared   pursuant  to  Item
                  601(b)(27) of Regulation  S-K is attached to this Form 10-K as
                  Exhibit 27.1

(28)    Information from Reports Furnished to State Insurance Regulatory 
        Authorities
        (Inapplicable)



(99)    Additional Exhibits

        99.1      The  consolidated  financial  statements of DST Systems,  Inc.
                  (including  the notes  thereto  and the Report of  Independent
                  Accountants  thereon)  set  forth  under  Item  8 of  the  DST
                  Systems,  Inc.  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1998  (Commission  File No.  1-14036),  as listed
                  under  Item  14(a)(2)  herein,  are  hereby   incorporated  by
                  reference as Exhibit 99.1

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

The Company did not file any current reports on Form 8-K during the three months
ended December 31, 1998.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                           Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc.


March 22, 1999                       By:           /s/ L.H. Rowland             
                                                     L.H. Rowland
                                                  Chairman, President,
Chief Executive
Officer and Director

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the  following  persons on behalf of the Company and in
the capacities indicated on March 22, 1999.

    Signature                             Capacity


  /s/ L.H. Rowland                 Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer
    L.H. Rowland                     and Director


  /s/ M.R. Haverty                 Executive Vice President and Director
    M.R. Haverty


  /s/ J.D. Monello                 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
    J.D. Monello                     (Principal Financial Officer)


  /s/ L.G. Van Horn                Vice President and Comptroller
    L.G. Van Horn                    (Principal Accounting Officer)


  /s/ A.E. Allinson                Director
    A.E. Allinson


   /s/ P.F. Balser                 Director
     P.F. Balser


   /s/ J.E. Barnes                 Director
     J.E. Barnes


    /s/ M.G. Fitt                  Director
      M.G. Fitt


   /s/ J.R. Jones                  Director
     J.R. Jones


  /s/ J.F. Serrano                 Director
    J.F. Serrano


  /s/ M.I. Sosland                 Director
    M.I. Sosland





                  KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN INDUSTRIES, INC.
                      1998 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
                          INDEX TO EXHIBITS

                                                                 Regulation S-K
Exhibit                                                            Item 601(b)
  No.                       Document                               Exhibit No.



 3.6       The Company's By-Laws, as amended and restated
               as of September 17, 1998                                   3

10.15      Employment Agreement as amended and restated
               January 1, 1999, by and between the Company and
               Michael R. Haverty                                        10

10.16      Employment Agreement as amended and restated
               January 1, 1999, by and between the Company and
               Joseph D. Monello                                         10

10.17      Employment Agreement as amended and restated
               January 1, 1999, by and between the Company and
               Danny R. Carpenter                                        10

10.18      Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc. Executive Plan,
               as amended and restated effective November 17, 1998       10

12.1       Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges             12

21.1       Subsidiaries of the Company                                   21

23.1       Consent of Independent Accountants                            23

27.1       Financial Data Schedule                                       27

                        -----------------------------

