10-K


j8375_10k.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C.  20549

FORM 10-K

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Depositary
Shares, each representing a 1/10 interest in 7.99% Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares ($.01 par value)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act).  Yes

ý

No

o

The aggregate market value of the voting shares of the Registrant’s
outstanding common shares held by non-affiliates of the Registrant is $3.4
billion based on the last reported sale price on February 18, 2003.

The number of  Common Shares
outstanding as of February 18, 2003 was 135,168,668 ($.01 par value).

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2003
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 30, 2003, are incorporated
by reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Form 10-K

PART I

Item 1. 
Business

Risk

Factors

There are certain risk factors associated with an investment
of securities issued by Duke Realty Corporation (the “Company”). Discussion of
these risk factors can be found in the Company’s Report on Form 8K filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on December 6, 2001.

Background

The
Company is a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust
(“REIT”). The Company began operations upon completion of its initial public
offering in February 1986. In October 1993, the Company completed an additional
common stock offering and acquired the rental real estate and service
businesses of Duke Associates, whose operations began in 1972. As of December
31, 2002, the Company’s diversified portfolio of 927 rental properties
(including 17 properties totaling 3.1 million square feet

under

development) encompass over 108 million rentable
square feet and are leased by a diverse and stable base of approximately 4,500
tenants whose businesses include manufacturing, retailing, wholesale trade,
distribution and professional services. The Company also owns or controls more
than 3,800 acres of unencumbered land ready for development.

The

Company

, through its Service
Operations, also provides, on a fee basis, leasing, property and asset
management, development, construction, build-to-suit, and other tenant-related
services for approximately 400 tenants in over 8 million square feet of space
at properties owned by third-party clients. With 13 primary operating
platforms, the Company concentrates its activities in the Midwest and Southeast
United States. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” for financial information. The Company’s rental operations
are conducted through Duke Realty Limited Partnership (“DRLP”). In addition,
the Company conducts its Service Operations through Duke Realty Services
Limited Partnership (“DRSLP”) and Duke Construction Limited Partnership
(“DCLP”). All references to the “Company” in this Form 10-K Report include the
Company and those entities owned or controlled by the Company, unless the
context indicates otherwise.

The
Company’s headquarters and executive offices are located in Indianapolis,
Indiana. In addition, the Company has twelve

regional

offices located in Atlanta, Georgia; Cincinnati,
Ohio; Columbus, Ohio; Cleveland, Ohio; Chicago, Illinois; Dallas, Texas;
Minneapolis, Minnesota; Nashville, Tennessee; Orlando, Florida; Raleigh, North
Carolina; St. Louis, Missouri and Tampa, Florida. The Company had 1,001
employees as of December 31, 2002.

Business

Strategy

The
Company’s business objective is to increase its Funds From Operations (“FFO”)
by (i) maintaining and increasing property occupancy and rental rates through
the aggressive management of its portfolio of existing properties; (ii)
expanding existing properties; (iii) developing and acquiring new properties;
and (iv) providing a full line of real estate services to the Company’s tenants
and to third-parties. FFO is defined by the National Association of Real Estate
Investment Trusts as net income or loss, excluding gains or losses from sales
of depreciated operating property, plus operating property depreciation and
amortization and adjustments for minority interest and unconsolidated companies
on the same basis. While management believes that FFO is a relevant measure of
the Company’s operating performance because it is widely used by industry
analysts to measure the operating performance of equity REITs, such amount does
not represent cash flow from operations as defined by generally accepted
accounting principles, should not be considered as an alternative to net income
as an indicator of the Company’s operating performance, and is not indicative
of cash available to fund all cash flow needs.


As
a fully integrated commercial real estate firm, the Company believes that its
in-house leasing, management, development and construction services and the
Company’s significant base of commercially zoned and unencumbered land in
existing business parks should give the Company a competitive advantage in its
future development activities.

The
Company believes that the analysis of real estate

opportunities

and risks can be done most effectively at regional
or local levels. As a result, the Company intends to continue its emphasis on
increasing its market share and effective rents in its primary markets where it
owns properties. The Company also expects to utilize its more than 3,800 acres
of unencumbered land and its many business relationships with nearly 4,500
commercial tenants to expand its build-to-suit business (development projects
substantially pre-leased to a single tenant) and to pursue other development
and acquisition opportunities in its primary markets. The Company believes that
this regional focus will allow it to assess market supply and demand for real
estate more effectively as well as to capitalize on its strong relationships
with its tenant base.

The
Company’s policy is to seek to develop and acquire Class A commercial
properties located in markets with high growth potential for Fortune 500
companies and other quality regional and local firms. The Company’s industrial
and suburban office development focuses on business parks and mixed-use
developments  suitable for multiple
projects on a single site where the Company can create and control the business
environment. These business parks and mixed-use developments generally include
restaurants and other amenities which the Company believes will create an
atmosphere that is particularly efficient and desirable. The Company’s retail
development focuses on community, power and neighborhood centers in its
existing markets. As a fully integrated real estate company, the Company is
able to arrange for or provide to its industrial, office and retail tenants not
only well located and well maintained facilities, but also additional services
such as build-to-suit construction, tenant finish construction, expansion
flexibility and advertising and marketing services.

All
of the Company’s properties are located in areas that include competitive
properties. Such properties are generally owned by institutional investors,
other REITs or local real estate operators; however, no single competitor or
small group of competitors is dominant in the Company’s current markets. The
supply and demand of similar available rental properties may affect the rental
rates the Company will receive on its properties.

Financing
Strategy

The
Company seeks to maintain a well-balanced, conservative and flexible capital
structure by: (i) extending and sequencing the maturity dates of its debt; (ii)
borrowing primarily at fixed rates; (iii) generally pursuing current and future
long-term debt financings and refinancings on an unsecured basis; and (iv)
maintaining conservative debt service and fixed charge coverage ratios.
Management believes that these strategies have enabled and should continue to
enable the Company to access capital markets for their long-term requirements
such as debt refinancings and financing development and acquisitions of
additional rental properties. In addition, as discussed under Item 7,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations,” the Company has a $500 million unsecured line of credit and a $50
million secured line of credit available for short-term fundings of development
and acquisition of additional rental properties. In addition, the Company
pursues favorable opportunities to dispose of assets that no longer meet the
Company’s long-term investment criteria and re-deploy the proceeds into new
investments that the Company believes have excellent long-term growth
prospects. See additional discussion under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Company’s debt
to total market capitalization ratio (total market capitalization is defined as
the total market value of all outstanding Common and Preferred Shares and units
of limited partnership interest (“Units”) in DRLP plus outstanding
indebtedness) at December 31, 2002 was 32.7%. The Company’s ratio of earnings
to debt service and ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the year ended
December 31, 2002 were 2.40x and 1.92x, respectively. In computing the ratio of
earnings to debt service,


earnings
have been calculated by adding debt service to income from continuing
operations before earnings or losses from the sale of land and depreciable
property dispositions, net of impairment adjustments and minority interest in
earnings of DRLP. Debt service consists of interest expense and recurring
principal amortization (excluding maturities) and excludes amortization of debt
issuance costs. In computing the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings
have been calculated by adding fixed charges, excluding capitalized interest,
to income from continuing operations before earnings or losses from the sale of
land and depreciable property dispositions, net of impairment adjustments and
minority interest in earnings of DRLP. Fixed charges consist of interest costs,
whether expensed or capitalized, the interest component of rental expense,
amortization of debt issuance costs and preferred stock dividend requirements.

Other

The
Company’s operations are not dependent on a single or few customers as no
single customer accounts for more than 1.6% of the Company’s total revenue. The
Company’s operations are not

subject

to any significant seasonal fluctuations. The Company believes it is in
compliance with environmental regulations and does not anticipate material
effects of continued compliance.

For
additional information regarding the Company’s

investments

and operations, see Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and
Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For additional
information about the Company’s business segments, see Item 8, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.”

In addition to this Annual
Report, the Company files quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and
other

information

with the SEC. All
documents that are files with the SEC are available free of charge on the
Company’s corporate website, which is http://www.dukerealty.com. You may also
read and copy any document filed at the public reference facilities of the SEC
at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 25049.  Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information
about the public reference facilities. These documents also may be accessed
through the SEC’s electronic data gathering, analysis and retrieval system
(“EDGAR”) via electronic means, including the SEC’s home page on the Internet
(http://www.sec.gov). In addition, since some of our securities are listed on the
New York Stock Exchange, you can read SEC filings at the offices of the New
York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.

Item 2. 
Properties

Product Review

As
of December 31, 2002, the Company owns an interest in a diversified portfolio
of 927 commercial  properties
encompassing over 108 million net rentable square feet (including  17 properties  comprising 3.1 million square feet under development) and more
than 3,800 acres of land for future development.

Industrial
Properties:

The
Company owns interests in 668 industrial properties encompassing approximately
81.7 million square feet (75% of total square feet) more specifically described
as follows:

•

Bulk Warehouses –

Industrial warehouse/distribution buildings with clear ceiling heights
of 20 feet or more. The Company owns 439 buildings totaling 67.9 million square
feet of such properties.

•

Service Centers –

Also known as flex buildings or light industrial, this product type has 12-18
foot clear ceiling heights and a combination of drive-up and dock-height
loading access. The Company owns 229 buildings totaling 13.8 million square
feet of such properties.

Office
Properties:

The Company owns interests in 246 office
buildings totaling approximately 25.6 million square feet (24% of total square
feet) more specifically described as follows:

•

Suburban Office –

The Company owns 242 suburban office buildings totaling 24.7 million
square feet.

•

CBD Office –

The Company owns four downtown office projects totaling approximately 861,000 square
feet.


Retail
Properties:

The Company owns interests in 13 retail
projects totaling approximately 1.0 million square feet (1% of total square
feet). These properties encompass both power and neighborhood shopping centers.

Land:

The
Company owns or controls more than 3,800 acres of land located primarily in its
existing business parks. The land is ready for immediate use and is
unencumbered by debt. Over 59 million square feet of additional space can be
developed on these sites and all of the land is zoned for either office,
industrial or retail development.

Service
Operations:

The Company provides property and asset
management, development, leasing and construction services to third party
owners in addition to its own properties. The Company’s current property
management base for third parties includes over 8.0 million square feet of
properties serving approximately 400 tenants.

Property
Descriptions

The
following schedule represents the geographic highlights of the Company’s
in-service properties in its primary markets as of December 31, 2002:

(1)

Includes all wholly owned and joint venture
projects shown at 100% as of report date .

(2)

Represents the average annual rental
property revenue due from tenants in occupancy as of the date of this report,
excluding additional rent due as operating expense reimbursements, landlord
allowances for operating  expenses and
percentage rents.  Joint Venture
properties are shown at the Company’s ownership percentage.

(3)

Represents properties not located in the
Company’s primary markets.  These
properties are located in similar midwest or southeast markets.


Item
3.  Legal Proceedings

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that
arise in the ordinary course of business. 
In the opinion of management, the amount of any ultimate liability with
respect to these actions will not materially affect the Company’s consolidated
financial statements or results of operations.

Item 4.

Submission

of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were

submitted

to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the year ended December 31, 2002.

EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Gary A. Burk, age

.  Mr. Burk has
served as Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Construction of the
Company since January 2003.  Mr. Burk
served as Co-Chief Operating Officer of the Company from March 2002 until
January 2003.  Prior to that time and
since 1993, Mr. Burk served as the Company’s Executive Vice President,
Construction.

Robert M. Chapman,
age 49

.

Mr. Chapman has served as the Company’s
Executive Vice President, Southern Region, since 2000. He is responsible for
the Company’s Atlanta, Orlando, Tampa, Raleigh, Nashville and Dallas property
portfolios.  Mr. Chapman was previously
the Company’s Executive Vice President of the Atlanta/Texas region from 1999 to
2000, and its Executive Vice President of Acquisitions and Dispositions from
1997 to 1999. Before joining the Company in 1997, he served as Senior Vice
President and Portfolio Manager for The RREEF Funds. Prior to that, Gerald
Hines Interests and Lincoln Property Company employed Mr. Chapman.

Howard L. Feinsand,
age 55

.

Mr. Feinsand has served as the Company’s
Executive Vice President, and General Counsel since 1999. Mr. Feinsand served
on the Company’s Board of Directors from 1988 to January 2003. From 1996 until
1999, Mr. Feinsand was the founder and principal of Choir Capital Ltd. From 1995
until 1996, he was Managing Director of Citicorp North America, Inc.  He was the Senior Vice President and
Manager-Capital Markets, Pricing and Investor Programs of GE Capital Aviation
Services, Inc., an aircraft leasing company, from 1989 to 1995.

Thomas L. Hefner,
age 56

.  Mr.
Hefner has served as Chairman of the Board since 1998 and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company since 1993.  Mr.
Hefner has served as a Director of the Company since 1993 and also serves as a
member of the board of directors of the National Association of Real Estate
Investment Trusts, the Central Indiana Corporate Partnership and the Nature
Conservancy of Indiana. In addition, he serves on the Dean’s Advisory Council
of Purdue University’s Krannert School of Business.

William E. Linville,
III, age 48

.  Mr.
Linville has been Executive Vice President, Midwest Region, for the Company
since March 2001. In this role, he has responsibility for the Company’s
Indiana, Chicago, Minneapolis and St. Louis operations.  From 1994 until March 2001, Mr. Linville led
the Company’s Midwest Industrial Group. He originally joined the Company in
1987 as head of its Indiana Industrial Group.

Dennis D. Oklak,
age 49

.  Mr. Oklak
has served as the President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2003.  Prior to that, Mr. Oklak served as Co-Chief
Operating Officer and Executive Vice President. He was also the Chief
Administrative Officer of the Company since 1997. From 1993 to 1997, he served
as the Company’s Vice-President and Treasurer.

Darell E. Zink, Jr

.,

age 56.

Mr. Zink has served as the Company’s Vice
Chairman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January
2003.  Prior to that time he served as
the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
1993.  He has been with the Company
since 1982 and has served as a Director since 1993.  Mr. Zink also serves as a member of the board of directors of
Citizens Gas & Coke Utility, Fifth Third Bank of Indiana, the CICOA Foundation,
the Indianapolis Chamber


of Commerce, VEI/IMM (a subsidiary of Community Hospitals), Vanderbilt
University Alumni Board and Educational Choice.  He also serves as chairman of the Inroads Advisory Board.

PART II

Item 5.  Market
for the Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

The Company’s common shares are listed for trading on the New York
Stock Exchange, symbol DRE. The following table sets forth the high and low
sales prices of the common stock for the periods indicated and the dividend
paid per share during each such period. 
Comparable cash dividends are expected in the future. As of February 18,
2003, there were 12,227 record holders of common shares.

On January 29, 2003, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of
$.455 per share, payable on February 28, 2003, to common shareholders of record
on February 14, 2003.

A summary of the tax characterization of the dividends paid per common
share for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 follows:

Dividends per common share of $1.19, $1.34 and $1.26 were required for
the Company to maintain its REIT status in 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

Item 6. 
Selected Consolidated

FinancialData

The following sets forth selected consolidated financial and operating
information on a historical basis for the Company for each of the years in the
five-year period ended December 31, 2002. The following information should be
read in conjunction with Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K (in thousands,
except per share amounts):


(1)

Funds From Operations is
defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts as net
income or loss, excluding gains or losses from sales of depreciated property,
plus operating property depreciation and amortization and adjustments for
minority interest and unconsolidated  companies
on the same basis. Funds From Operations does not  represent cash flow from operations as defined by generally accepted
accounting principles, should not be considered as an alternative to net income
as an indicator of the Company’s operating performance, and is not indicative
of cash available to fund all cash flow needs.

Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

Cautionary
Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements

Certain statements in this Annual Report, including those related to
the Company’s future operations, constitute “forward-looking statements” within
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These
forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
other important factors that could cause the actual results, performance or
achievements of the Company, or industry results, to differ materially from any
predictions of future results, performance or achievements that we express or
imply in this report. Some of the risks, uncertainties and other important
factors that may affect future results include, among others:

•

General economic and business conditions;

•

The Company’s continued qualification as a real
estate investment trust;

•

Competition for tenants and decrease in property
occupancy;

•

Potential increases in real estate construction
costs;

•

Potential changes in interest rates;

•

Continuing ability to favorably raise debt and
equity in the capital markets; and

•

Other risks inherent in the real estate business
including tenant defaults, potential liability relating to environmental
matters and liquidity of real estate investments.


This list of risks and uncertainties, however, is not intended to be
exhaustive. The Company has on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) a Report on Form 8K dated December 6, 2001, with additional risk factor
information.

The words “believe,” “estimate,” “expect” and similar expressions or
statements regarding future periods are intended to identify forward-looking
statements. Although we believe that the plans, expectations and results
expressed in or suggested by our forward-looking statements are reasonable, all
forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain as they involve substantial
risks and uncertainties beyond the Company’s control. New factors emerge from
time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict the nature or assess the
potential impact of each new factor on the Company’s business. Given these
uncertainties, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or
revise any of its forward-looking statements for events or circumstances that
arise after the statement is made.

Business Overview

The Company is a self-administered and self managed real estate
investment trust that began operations through a related entity in 1972. As of
December 31, 2002, the Company:

•

Owned or controlled 927 industrial, office and retail properties
(including properties under development), consisting of over 108 million square
feet located in 12 states; and

•

Owned or controlled approximately 3,800 acres of land with an estimated
future development potential of approximately 59 million square feet of
industrial, office and retail properties.

The Company provides the following services for
its properties and for certain properties owned by third parties:

•

leasing;

•

management;

•

construction;

•

development; and

•

other tenant-related services.

The Company’s operating results depend primarily upon income from the
Rental Operations of its properties. This rental income is substantially
influenced by the supply and demand for the Company’s rental space. The
Company’s continued growth is dependent upon its ability to maintain occupancy
rates and increase rental rates of its in-service portfolio. The Company’s
strategy for growth also includes developing and acquiring additional rental
properties.

Rental Operations revenues decreased from $714.7 million in 2001 to
$711.5 million in 2002, as the effects of a weakened economy lingered in the
Company’s markets for 2001 and 2002. The occupancy level of the Company’s
in-service portfolio decreased from 88.6% at December 31, 2001, to 87.1% at
December 31, 2002 due to the following factors:

•

The low occupancy levels of new developments
placed in-service over the last twelve to eighteen months as a result of slow
lease-up activity;

•

The slowdown in demand in many of the Company’s
markets from the weakened economy; and

•

The effects of the Company’s disposition
activities in 2000 and 2001 during which the Company sold over $1 billion of
assets in an effort to de-leverage the Company’s balance sheet and dispose of
unwanted properties

While these events have affected growth and related rental income, the
Company believes that is has strong liquidity and financial flexibility (See
additional discussion under Liquidity and Capital Resources). With a debt to
market capitalization ratio of 32.7% and $219 million available on its
unsecured line of credit as of December 31, 2002, the Company believes that it
is positioned to fund its operational expenses and shareholder distributions
and to make future opportunistic real estate investments.


The following highlights the areas of Rental Operations that the
Company considers critical for future revenue growth (all square footage totals
and occupancy percentages reflect 100% of both wholly-owned properties and
properties in joint ventures):

Same Property Performance:

The Company tracks same property performance,
which measures the performance of properties that were in-service for all
reported portions of a two-year period by comparing the results of the second
year with the results of the first year. In 2002, net operating income from the
same property portfolio increased just .3% over 2001, compared to 4.4% growth
in 2001 over 2000. The lower growth in same property performance resulted from
lower occupancies in the properties that rolled into the same property
population in 2002, coupled with the fact that a majority of the properties
sold over the past two years were from the same property population and were
over 90% leased. The lower occupancy on our same property population was
slightly offset by an increase in net effective rents; however, rental rate
growth has decreased significantly from 2000 and 2001.

Occupancy Analysis:

As discussed above, the ability to maintain
occupancy rates is a principal driver of the Company’s results of operations.
The following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s in-service
portfolio of rental properties as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 (square feet in
thousands):

The Company’s lower occupancy percentage in 2002 as compared to 2001
was primarily caused by slower lease-up of new developments placed in-service
during 2002 and 2001 and reduced demand for existing space. While the decline
in occupancy appears to be slowing, and the Company is focused on leasing
existing space, management cannot predict when the occupancy of these
properties will increase.

Lease Expiration:

The Company’s ability to maintain and grow its
occupancy rates primarily depends upon its continuing ability to re-lease
expiring space. The following table reflects the Company’s in-service lease
expiration schedule as of December 31, 2002, by product type. The table
indicates square footage and annualized net effective rents (based on December
2002 rental revenue) under expiring leases (in thousands):

Lease
Renewals:

The
Company renewed 72.1% of leases up for renewal in 2002, totaling 8.7 million
square feet on which it attained a 3.3% growth in net effective rents. Slower
demand for rental space reduced rental rates during 2002.


The Company does not currently expect its renewal percentage or its
growth in net effective rents on new leases in 2003 to significantly differ
from the re-leasing activity in 2002.

Future Development:

The Company also expects to realize growth in earnings from Rental Operations
through the development and acquisition of additional rental properties.
Specifically, the Company has approximately 3.1 million square feet of
properties under development at December 31, 2002. These properties under
development should provide future earnings through Service Operations income
upon sale or from Rental Operations growth as they are placed in service as
follows (in thousands, except percent leased and stabilized returns):

Results of
Operations

A summary of the Company’s operating results and property statistics
for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2002, is as
follows (in thousands, except number of properties and per share amounts):

Comparison of
Year Ended December 31, 2002 to Year Ended December 31, 2001

Rental Operations

Rental Operations are comprised of net income from rental properties
(“Rental Net Income”) and equity in earnings from unconsolidated companies
(“Equity in Earnings”). Rental Net Income is defined as rental income less
rental expenses and real estate taxes. Overall, Rental Net Income decreased
from $492.1 million in 2001 to $483.9 million in 2002. The decrease is
primarily attributable to an overall decrease in


occupancy of the Company’s in-service portfolio from 88.6% at December
31, 2001, to 87.1% at December 31, 2002. This decrease is the result of the
weakened economy and its effect on business in the Company’s markets. These
markets are experiencing a shortage of demand compared to the supply of office
and industrial space resulting from downsizing of leased space for existing
tenants, the lack of new business growth, and the tendency of existing
businesses to hold off on growth plans until the economy improves. These
effects were somewhat mitigated by the Company recognizing $27.4 million and
$18.3 million of lease termination fees in 2002 and 2001, respectively.

The Company analyzes the results of Rental Operations by office,
industrial and retail portfolios. The following highlights the financial
results for each of the Company’s Rental Operations portfolios.

Office

Rental Net Income for Office properties increased from $255.3 million
in 2001, to $265.8 million in 2002 as a result of the following:

•

The Company
experienced an increase in its in-service Office portfolio occupancy from 86.0%
at December 31, 2001, to 86.5% at December 31, 2002.

•

The
Company’s in-service Office portfolio has increased from 229 properties at
December 31, 2001, to 239 properties at December 31, 2002.

•

The Company
recognized $21.7 million in termination fees associated with this segment in
2002, compared to $14.5 million in 2001.

Industrial

Rental Net Income for Industrial properties decreased to $212.6 million
in 2002, from $223.1 million in 2001 as a result of the following:

•

The Company
experienced a decrease in its in-service Industrial portfolio occupancy from 89.3%
at December 31, 2001, to 87.1% at December 31, 2002.

•

The
Company’s in-service Industrial portfolio increased from 649 properties at
December 31, 2001 to 661 properties at December 31, 2002.

•

The Company
recognized $5.5 million of lease termination fees for the year ended December
31, 2002, compared to $3.6 million in 2001.

Retail

Rental Net Income for Retail properties decreased to $6.0 million in
2002, from $15.0 million in 2001 in connection with the following:

•

In August
of 2001, the Company sold 21 properties or approximately 75% of its retail
portfolio.  As a result of this sale,
the Company had eight months of operations associated with these properties in
2001.

•

The
Company’s Retail portfolio had an in-service occupancy percentage of 98.5% at
December 31, 2002, compared to 96.8% at December 31, 2001.

Equity in earnings decreased from $31.4 million in 2001 to $27.2
million for 2002 as a result of the following:

•

The
Company’s share of lease termination fees for 2001 was approximately $2.1 million,
compared to approximately $658,000 in 2002.

•

During
2002, a 50% joint venture had increased interest expense of approximately
$900,000 as a result of $71.0 million in debt assumed during the second quarter
of 2001.

Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31,
2002, increased over the prior year through an increase in the Company’s
building asset basis, increased investments in tenant improvements and the
expensing of undepreciated tenant improvements associated with the early
terminations of tenants.


The $5.2 million increase in interest expense is attributable to the
following:

•

Interest
capitalized on development projects decreased from $25.9 million in 2001 to $13.5
million in 2002 because of decreased development activity by the Company over
the past twelve to eighteen months in response to soft demand in most of the
Company’s markets.

•

Interest
expense on corporate unsecured debt increased from $98.7 million in 2001 to
$100.8 million in 2002. The Company issued $150 million of ten-year unsecured
debt in August 2002 at an effective interest rate of 5.88% and $50 million of
ten-year unsecured debt in September 2002 at an effective interest rate of
5.45%. Also in 2002, the Company paid off $50 million of debt that matured in
September, which had an effective rate of 7.31%.

•

Interest
expense on the Company’s secured debt decreased from $30.8 million in 2001 to
$22.9 million in 2002 as the Company paid off $13.5 million of secured debt
throughout 2002 and experienced lower borrowings on its secured line of credit
during 2002 compared to 2001. 
Additionally, the Company paid off approximately $128.5 million of
secured debt throughout 2001.

•

Interest
expense on the Company’s $500 million unsecured line of credit decreased by
approximately $1.1 million in 2002 compared to 2001 as the Company maintained
lower balances on the line throughout most of 2002.

As a result of the above-mentioned items, earnings from Rental Operations
decreased $35.0 million from $254.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2001, to $219.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.

Service Operations

Service Operations primarily consist of leasing, management,
construction and development services for joint venture properties and
properties owned by third parties. Service Operations revenues decreased from
$80.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, to $68.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002. The prolonged effect of the slow economy has been
the primary factor in the overall decrease in revenues. The Company experienced
a decrease of $12.7 million in net general contractor revenues because of a
decrease in the volume of construction in 2002, compared to 2001, as well as slightly
lower profit margins.

Property management, maintenance and leasing fee revenues decreased
from $22.8 million in 2001 to $14.3 million in 2002 primarily because of  a decrease in landscaping maintenance
revenue resulting from the sale of the landscaping operations in the third
quarter of 2001.

Construction management and development activity income represents
construction and development fees earned on projects where the Company acts as
the construction manager along with profits from the Company’s held for sale
program whereby the Company develops a property for sale upon completion. The
increase in revenues of $10.3 million in 2002 is primarily due to an increase
in volume of the sale of properties from the held for sale program.

Service Operations expenses decreased from $45.3 million in 2001 to
$38.3 million in 2002.  The decrease is
attributable to the decrease in construction and development activity and the
reduced overhead costs as a result of the sale of the landscape business in
2001.

As a result of the above, earnings from Service Operations decreased
from $35.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, to $30.3 million for
the year ended December 31, 2002.

General and Administrative Expense

General and Administrative Expense increased from $15.6 million in 2001
to $25.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The Company has been
successful reducing total operating and administration


costs; however, reduced construction and development activities have
resulted in a greater amount of overhead being charged to general and
administrative expense instead of being capitalized into development projects
or charged to Service Operations.

Other Income and Expenses

Gain on sale of land and depreciable property dispositions, net of
impairment adjustment, is comprised of the following amounts in 2002 and 2001:

Gain on sales of depreciable properties represent sales of previously
held for investment rental properties. Beginning in 2000 and continuing into
2001, the Company pursued favorable opportunities to dispose of real estate
assets that no longer met long-term investment objectives. In 2002, the Company
significantly reduced this property sales program until the business climate
improves and provides better investment opportunities for the sale proceeds.

Gain on land sales represents sales of undeveloped land owned by the
Company. The Company pursues opportunities to dispose of land in markets with a
high concentration of undeveloped land and those markets where the land no
longer meets strategic development plans of the Company.

The Company recorded a $9.4 million adjustment in 2002 associated with
six properties determined to have an impairment of book value. The Company has
analyzed each of its in-service properties and has determined that there are no
additional valuation adjustments that need to be made as of December 31,
2002.  The Company recorded an
adjustment of $4.8 million in 2001 for one property that the Company had
contracted to sell for a price less than its book value.

Other revenue for the year ended December 31, 2002, includes $1.4
million of gain related to an interest rate swap that did not qualify for hedge
accounting.

Discontinued Operations

The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
144, “

Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long Lived Assets

” (“SFAS 144”), on January 1, 2002.
SFAS 144 requires the Company to report in discontinued operations the results
of operations of a property that has either been disposed or is classified as
held for sale, unless certain conditions are met.

The Company classified the results of operations of seven buildings in
its December 31, 2002, held for sale portfolio as discontinued operations in
accordance with SFAS 144. In addition, two properties were sold during 2002
that were identified as held for sale post adoption of SFAS 144; therefore, the
results of operations and gains on disposal for these two properties are also
reported in discontinued operations. The results of operations and gains from disposal
for all other properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2002, are
classified in continuing operations as these properties were identified as held
for sale prior to the adoption of SFAS 144. The effect of the adoption of SFAS
144 resulted in net income, net of effects of minority interest, of $2.9
million and $3.1 million being classified as discontinued operations for the
years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.  Additionally, the gain of $2.5 million on the sale of the two properties
sold in 2002 is classified as discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS
144.

Net Income Available for Common Shares

Net income available for common shares for the year ended December 31,
2002 was $161.3 million compared to $230.0 million for the year ended December
31, 2001. This decrease results primarily from the


operating result fluctuations in Rental Operations, Service Operations,
General and Administrative Expenses and earnings from sales of depreciable
property as discussed above.

Comparison of
Year Ended December 31, 2001 to Year Ended December 31, 2000

Rental Operations

Rental Net Income decreased from $503.5 million in 2000 to $492.1
million in 2001. This decrease is the result of an overall decrease in
occupancy of in-service properties from 93.6 % at December 31, 2000, to 88.6%
at December 31, 2001. Also contributing to the decline in Rental Net Income is
the effects of the Company’s property dispositions. During 2000 and 2001, the
Company sold approximately $1 billion of held for investment rental properties
from its in-service portfolio.  A
majority of these properties were over 90% leased and the new developments
placed in-service over the same time period were leased at lower percentages
and therefore, the Company realized less rental income. These effects were
somewhat mitigated by the Company recognizing $18.3 million and $7.0 million of
lease termination fees in 2001 and 2000, respectively.

The Company analyzes the results of Rental Operations by office,
industrial and retail portfolios.  The
following highlights the financial results for each of the Company’s Rental
Operations portfolios.

Office

Rental Net Income for Office properties increased from $225.5 million
in 2000, to $255.3 million in 2001 as a result of the following:

•

The Company
experienced a decrease in its in-service Office portfolio occupancy from 91.3%
at December 31, 2000, to 86.1% at December 31, 2001.

•

The
Company’s in-service Office portfolio increased from 232 properties at December
31, 2000 to 239 properties at December 31, 2001.

•

The Company
recognized $14.5 million in lease termination fees associated with this segment
in 2001, compared to only $3.8 million in 2000.

Industrial

Rental Net Income for Industrial properties decreased to $223.1 million
in 2001, from $256.3 million in 2000 as a result of the following:

•

The Company
experienced a decrease in its in-service Industrial portfolio occupancy from
94.2% at December 31, 2000, to 89.3% at December 31, 2001.

•

The
Company’s in-service Industrial portfolio decreased from 695 properties at
December 31, 2000 to 663 properties at December 31, 2001.

•

In 2001,
the Company recognized $3.6 million of lease termination fees, compared to $2.9
million in 2000.

Retail

Rental Net Income for Retail properties decreased to $15.0 million in
2001, from $23.0 million in 2000 as a result of the following:

•

In August
of 2001, the Company sold 21 properties or approximately 75% of its retail
portfolio.  As a result of this sale,
the Company had only eight months of operations associated with these
properties in 2001, compared to twelve in 2000.

•

The
Company’s retail portfolio had an in-service occupancy percentage of 96.7% at
December 31, 2001, compared to 97.8% at December 31, 2000.

•

The Company
recognized approximately $235,000 of lease termination fees in 2001 compared to
$289,000 in 2000.

Equity in earnings increased from $14.6 million in 2000 to $31.4
million for 2001. This increase is mainly the result of the Company selling a
significant number of properties to two 50% owned joint ventures in


the fourth quarter of 2000. The Company recognized $14.8 million of
additional equity in earnings in 2001 associated with these two ventures.

The $19.5 million decrease in interest expense is primarily
attributable to lower outstanding balances on the Company’s lines of credit
associated with the financing of the Company’s investment and operating
activities. The Company has maintained a significantly lower balance on its
lines of credit throughout 2001 compared to 2000, as a result of its property
dispositions proceeds used to fund future development, combined with a lower
development level as a result of the slower economy. Additionally, the Company
paid off $128.5 million of secured mortgage loans throughout 2001, as well as
an $85 million unsecured term loan. These decreases were partially offset by an
increase in interest expense on unsecured debt as a result of the Company
issuing $175.0 million of debt in February 2001, as well as a decrease in the
amount of interest capitalized in 2001 versus 2000, because of the decrease in
development activity by the Company.

As a result of the above-mentioned items, earnings from Rental
Operations increased $28.9 million from $225.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2000, to $254.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001.

Service
Operations

Service Operations revenues decreased from $82.8 million for the year
ended December 31, 2000, to $80.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001.
The Company experienced a decrease of $4.3 million in net general contractor
revenues from third party jobs because of a decrease in the volume of
construction in 2001, compared to 2000, as well as slightly lower profit
margins. This decrease is the effect of businesses delaying or terminating
plans to expand in the wake of the slowed economy.

Property management, maintenance and leasing fee revenues decreased
approximately $2.7 million mainly because of a decrease in landscaping
maintenance revenue associated with the sale of the landscape business in the
third quarter of 2001 (see discussion below).

Construction management and development activity income represents
construction and development fees earned on projects where the Company acts as
the construction manager along with profits from the Company’s held for sale
program whereby the Company develops a property for sale upon completion. The
increase in revenues of $2.2 million in 2001 is primarily because of an
increase in profits on the sale of properties from the held for sale program.

Other income increased approximately $2.4 million in 2001 over 2000;
due to a $1.8 million gain the Company recognized on the sale of its landscape
business in the third quarter of 2001. The sale of the landscape business
resulted in a total net profit of over $9 million after deducting all related
expenses. This gain will be recognized in varying amounts over the next seven
years because the Company has an on-going contract to purchase future services
from the buyer.

Service Operations expenses decreased by $4.7 million for the year
ended December 31, 2001, compared to the same period in 2000, as the Company
reduced total overhead costs throughout 2001 in an effort to minimize the
effects of decreased construction and development activity. The primary savings
were experienced in employee salary and related costs through personnel
reductions and reduced overhead costs from the sale of the landscaping
business.

As a result, earnings from Service Operations increased from $32.8
million for the year ended December 31, 2000, to $35.1 million for the year
ended December 31, 2001.

General and
Administrative Expense

General and Administrative Expense decreased from $21.1 million in 2000
to $15.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, through overhead cost
reduction efforts. In late 2000 and continuing


throughout 2001, the Company introduced several cost cutting measures
to reduce the amount of overhead, including personnel reductions,
centralization of responsibilities and reduction of employee costs such as
travel and entertainment.

Other Income and Expenses

Gain on sale of land and depreciable property dispositions, net of
impairment adjustment, was comprised of the following amounts in 2001 and 2000:

Gain on sales of depreciable properties represent sales of previously
held for investment rental properties. Beginning in 2000 and continuing into
2001, the Company pursued favorable opportunities to dispose of real estate
assets that no longer meet long-term investment objectives.

Gain on land sales represents sales of undeveloped land owned by the
Company. The Company pursues opportunities to dispose of land in markets with a
high concentration of undeveloped land and those markets where the land no
longer meets strategic development plans of the Company.

The Company recorded a $4.8 million asset impairment adjustment in 2001
on a single property that was sold in 2002.

Other expense for the year ended December 31, 2001, includes a $1.4
million expense related to an interest rate swap that does not qualify for
hedge accounting.

Net Income Available for Common Shares

Net income available for common shares for the year ended December 31,
2001 was $230.0 million compared to $213.0 million for the year ended December
31, 2000. This increase results primarily from the operating result
fluctuations in Rental and Service Operations and earnings from sales of real
estate assets explained above.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reported period. 
The Company’s estimates, judgments and assumptions are continually
evaluated based upon available information and experience.  Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements includes further discussion of the Company’s significant accounting
policies.

The Company has assessed the accounting policies used in the
preparation of its financial statements. 
The following accounting policies are considered critical based upon
materiality to the financial statements, degree of judgment involved in
estimating reported amounts and sensitivity to changes in industry and economic
conditions:

Accounting for joint ventures:

The
Company has equity interests ranging from 10-95% in joint ventures that own and
operate rental properties and hold land for development. The Company
consolidates those joint ventures that it controls through majority ownership
interests or substantial participating rights. Control is further demonstrated
by the ability of the general partner to manage day-to-day operations,
refinance debt and sell the assets of the joint venture without the consent of
the limited partner and inability of the limited


partner to replace the general partner. The Company uses the equity
method of accounting for those joint ventures where the Company does not have
control over operating and financial polices. Under the equity method of
accounting, the assets and liabilities of joint ventures for which the Company
uses the equity method are not included on the Company’s balance sheet.

Cost Capitalization:

Direct and certain indirect costs, including
interest, clearly associated with the development, construction, leasing or
expansion of real estate investments are capitalized as a cost of the
property.  The following discusses the
significant categories of costs incurred by the Company:

Within the Rental Operations of the Company, direct and indirect costs
are capitalized under the guidelines of FASB 67,

Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate
Projects (“FASB 67”)

and 
interest costs are capitalized under the guidelines of FASB 34, “

Capitalization of Interest Cost

” (“FASB
34”). The Company capitalizes these project costs associated with the initial
construction of a property up to the time the property is substantially
complete and ready for its intended use. The Company believes the completion of
the building shell is the proper basis for determining substantial completion
and that this basis is the most widely accepted standard in the real estate
industry. The interest rate used to capitalize costs is based upon the
Company’s average borrowing rate on existing debt.

In addition, the Company capitalizes costs, including interest costs,
on vacant space during extended lease-up periods after construction of the
building shell has been completed if costs are being incurred to ready the
vacant space for its intended use.  If
costs and activities incurred to ready the vacant space cease, then cost
capitalization is also discontinued until such activities are resumed. Once
necessary work has been completed on a vacant space, project costs are no
longer capitalized. The Company ceases capitalization of all project costs on
extended lease-up periods after the shorter of a one-year period after the
completion of the building shell or when the property attains a 90% occupancy.
The Company follows guidelines in FASB 34 and FASB 67 in determining the
capitalization of project costs during the lease-up period of a property and
believes that this treatment is consistent with real estate industry standards
for project cost capitalization.

A portion of the direct costs associated with the
construction/development division and the leasing division, as well as a
portion of indirect costs, are capitalized into the cost of specific
construction/development and leasing projects. The capitalized portion of these
costs is based upon standard charges determined by the Company. The standard
charges were established based upon time estimates developed by the Company to
cover the direct overhead costs of the construction/ development and leasing
divisions and a portion of the remaining indirect overhead of the Company. The
Company reviews these standards on a quarterly basis to ensure that the amounts
capitalized are appropriate.

Impairment of Real Estate
Investments:

The Company
evaluates its real estate investments 
upon occurrence of significant changes in the operations, but not less
than annually, to assess whether any impairment indications are present that
affect the recovery of the recorded value. If any real estate investment is
considered impaired, a loss is provided to reduce the carrying value of the
asset to its estimated fair value. The Company utilizes the guidelines
established under SFAS 144 to determine if impairment conditions exist. Under
SFAS 144, the Company reviews the expected undiscounted cash flows of each
property in its held for rental portfolio to determine if there are any
indications of impairment of a property. The review of anticipated cash flows
involves subjective assumptions of estimated occupancy and rental rates and
ultimate residual value. In addition to reviewing anticipated cash flows, the
Company assesses other factors such as changes in business climate and legal
factors that may affect the ultimate value of the property. These assumptions
are subjective and may not ultimately be achieved.

Real estate assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of their
carrying value amount or the fair value less cost to sell.

Valuation of Receivables:

The Company is subject to tenant defaults
and bankruptcies that could affect the collection of outstanding
receivables.  In order to mitigate these
risks, the Company performs in-house credit


review and analysis on major existing tenants and all significant
leases before they are executed. The Company has the following procedures and
policies to evaluate the collectibility of outstanding receivables and record
allowances:

•

A tenant
“watch list” as well as a list of the 100 largest tenants based upon annual
gross rent is maintained and monitored for tenants with potential risk; and

•

The Company
has a defined accounting policy to reserve for the entire tenant receivable
balance of any tenant with an amount outstanding over 90 days.

Revenue Recognition on Long-Term
Construction Contracts:

The Company recognizes income on long-term construction contracts where
the Company serves as a general contractor on the percentage of completion
method. Using this method, profits are recorded on the basis of the Company’s
estimates of the overall profit and percentage of completion of individual
contracts. A portion of the estimated profits is accrued based upon the
Company’s estimates of the percentage of completion of the construction
contract. Cumulative revenues recognized may be less or greater than cumulative
costs and profits billed at any point in time during a contract’s term. This
revenue recognition method involves inherent risk relating to profit and cost
estimates that is reduced through approval and monitoring processes.

With regards to critical accounting policies, management has discussed
the following with the Audit Committee:

•

Criteria for identifying and selecting;

•

Methodology in applying; and

•

Impact to the financial statements.

The Audit Committee has reviewed the critical accounting policies
identified by the Company.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Sources
of Liquidity

The Company expects to meet liquidity requirements over the next twelve
months, including payments of dividends and distributions as well as recurring
capital expenditures relating to maintaining the Company’s current real estate
assets, primarily through the following:

•

working capital; and

•

net cash provided by operating activities.

The Company expects to meet long-term liquidity requirements, such as
scheduled mortgage debt maturities, the retirement of unsecured notes and
amounts outstanding under the unsecured credit facility, property acquisitions,
financing of development activities and other non-recurring capital
improvements, through the following:

•

issuance of additional unsecured notes;

•

undistributed cash available for distribution, if any; and

•

proceeds received from real estate dispositions.

Rental Operations

The Company believes that its principal source of liquidity, cash flows
from Rental Operations, provides a stable source of cash to fund operational
expenses. The Company believes that this cash based revenue stream is
substantially aligned with revenue recognition (except for periodic straight-line
rental income accruals) as cash receipts from the leasing of rental properties
are generally received in advance of or in a short time following the actual
revenue recognition. The Company is subject to risks of decreased occupancy
through market conditions as well as tenant defaults and bankruptcies, which
would result in reduced cash


flow from operations. However, management believes that these risks are
mitigated by the Company’s strong market presence in most of its locations and
the fact that the Company performs in-house credit review and analysis on major
tenants and all significant leases before they are executed.

Credit Facilities

The Company has the following lines of credit available (in thousands):

Description

Borrowing

Capacity

Maturity

Date

Interest

Rate

Amount

Outstanding

at December

31, 2002

Unsecured Line
  of Credit

$

500,000

February 2004

LIBOR + .65

%

$

281,000

Secured Line of
  Credit

$

50,000

January 2006

LIBOR + .60

%

$

23,895

The lines of credit are used to fund development and acquisition of
additional rental properties and to provide working capital.

In December 2002, the Company renewed its secured line of credit and
reduced the amount available from $100 million to $50 million, reduced the
interest rate from LIBOR + 1.05% to LIBOR + .60%, and extended the maturity
date to January 2006.

Associated with the $500 million line of credit are financial covenants
that require the Company to meet defined levels of performance.  As of December 31, 2002, the Company is in
compliance with all covenants pertaining to the $500 million line of credit.

Debt and Equity Securities

The Company currently has on file with the SEC an effective shelf
registration statement that permits the Company to sell up to an additional
$420 million of unsecured debt securities. 
In addition, the Company has on file with the SEC an effective shelf
registration statement that permits the Company to sell up to an additional
$250.7 million of common and preferred stock. From time-to-time, the Company
expects to issue additional securities under these registration statements to
fund development and acquisition of additional rental properties and to fund
the repayment of the credit facilities and other long-term debt upon maturity.

The indenture governing the Company’s unsecured notes also requires the
Company to comply with financial ratios and other covenants regarding the
operations of the Company. The Company is currently in compliance with all such
covenants and expects to remain in compliance in the foreseeable future.

In January 2003, the Company completed an issuance of unsecured debt
totaling $175 million bearing interest at 5.25%, due 2010.

Sale of Real Estate Assets

The Company utilizes sales of real estate assets as an additional
source of liquidity.  During 2000 and
2001, the Company engaged in a capital-recycling program that resulted in sales
of over $1 billion of real estate assets during these two years.  In 2002, this program was substantially
reduced as capital needs were met through other sources and the slower business
climate provided fewer opportunities to profitably reinvest sale proceeds. The
Company continues to pursue opportunities to sell real estate assets when
beneficial to the long-term strategy of the Company.

Uses of Liquidity

The Company’s principal uses of liquidity include the following:

•

Property investments and recurring leasing/capital costs;

•

Dividends and distributions to shareholders and unitholders;

•

Long-term debt maturities; and

•

The Company’s common stock repurchase program.


Property Investments and Other
Capital Expenditures

One of the Company’s principal uses of its liquidity is for the
development, acquisition and recurring leasing/capital expenditures of its real
estate investments.

A summary of the Company’s recurring capital expenditures is as follows
(in thousands):

Dividends and Distributions

In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the
Company must currently distribute at least 90% of its taxable income to its
shareholders and Duke Realty Limited Partnership (“DRLP”)  unitholders. The Company paid dividends of
$1.81, $1.76 and $1.64 for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
The Company expects to continue to distribute taxable earnings to meet the
requirements to maintain its REIT status. However, distributions are declared
at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and are subject to actual
cash available for distribution, the Company’s financial condition, capital
requirements and such other factors as the Company’s Board of Directors deems
relevant.

Debt Maturities

Debt outstanding at December 31, 2002, totals $2.1 billion with a
weighted average interest rate of 6.25% maturing at various dates through 2028.
The Company had $1.8 billion of unsecured debt and $299.1 million of secured
debt outstanding at December 31, 2002. Scheduled principal amortization of such
debt totaled $10.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.

Following is a summary of the scheduled future amortization and
maturities of the Company’s indebtedness at December 31, 2002 (in thousands):

Common Stock Repurchase Program

In January 2000, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a common
stock repurchase program pursuant to which the Company was authorized to
purchase up to $100 million of currently issued and outstanding common stock.
During 2001, the Board of Directors increased the size of this common stock
repurchase program to $250 million. This authority may be exercised from time
to time and in such amounts as market conditions warrant.  As of December 31, 2002, the Company has
purchased 20,000 shares of common stock valued at $437,000 under the repurchase
program. The Company considers the price of its common stock and the effect of
repurchases on its financial condition in determining whether to purchase
common stock under its repurchase program.


Historical Cash Flows

Cash and cash equivalents were $17.4 million, $9.5 million and $39.2
million at December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.  The 2002 increase of $7.9 million and 2001
decrease of $29.7 million is the result of the following increases and
decreases in cash flows (amounts in thousands):

Operating Activities

The $219.9 million increase in net cash provided by operating
activities in 2002 compared to 2001 resulted primarily from the following:

•

The Company
received net proceeds of $168.2 million from its Build-to-Suit operations in
2002, compared to incurring net development costs of $79.9 million in
2001.  During 2002, the Company sold
eight properties from its Build-to-Suit portfolio and at the same time reduced
its development pipeline in favor of developing properties to be held as rental
investments.

The Company’s net cash provided by operating activities decrease of
$13.7 million from 2000 to 2001 was primarily the result of changes in cash
provided by changes in operating and assets and liabilities.

Investing Activities

The decrease from net cash provided by investing activities in 2001 to
2002 was attributable to the following:

•

During
2001, the Company’s capital recycling program provided $436.1 million in net
proceeds from land and depreciated property sales, compared to $52.2 million in
2002, as the Company curtailed its recycling program.

•

Real estate
development costs decreased from $251.4 million in 2001 to $158.1 million in
2002, due to a reduction in new development in 2002 in response to weakened
demand in many of the Company’s markets.

•

The Company
acquired $98.1 million of real estate assets in 2002 compared to $13.9 million
in 2001.

•

The Company
acquired $92.2 million of undeveloped land in 2001 compared to $27.5 million in
2002.  The Company continually evaluates
inventory of undeveloped land and strives to keep only land that meets
long-term development opportunities.

•

In 2001,
the Company received $50.0 million in distributions from unconsolidated
companies associated with proceeds received from financing transactions on two
joint ventures in which the Company has a 50% ownership interest.

The change from net cash used by investing activities in 2000 to net
cash provided by investing activities in 2001 was the result of the following:

•

Real estate
development costs decreased by $54.9 million.

•

Cash from
tax deferred exchange escrow, net, increased by $43.5 million with the
increased activity in the capital-recycling program.

•

In 2001,
net proceeds from land and depreciated property sales increased by $22.4
million in connection with the capital recycling program. Net decreases in
recurring tenant improvements, leasing costs and deferred leasing costs of
$45.6 million.

•

In 2000,
the Company received $158.4 million in distributions from unconsolidated
companies as a result of significant financing transactions with two joint
ventures in which the Company has a 50% ownership interest (See discussion
under Investments in Unconsolidated Companies).


Financing Activities

The $247.2 million decrease in net cash used for financing activities
from 2001 to 2002 resulted from the following:

•

The Company
had net borrowings of $157.3 million on its unsecured line of credit in 2002
compared to net repayments of $125.1 million in 2001.  The change is primarily due to the Company’s increased use of its
line of credit in the latter part of 2002.

•

During
2002, the Company redeemed its Series F Preferred Stock for $150.0 million and
a portion of its Series B Preferred Stock for $17.7 million.  In 2001, the Company redeemed its Series A
Preferred Stock for $75.0 million and issued its Series I Preferred Stock for
net proceeds of $72.2 million.

•

In 2002,
the Company redeemed its Series G Preferred Units for $35.0 million

•

In 2002,
the Company issued $200.0 million of unsecured debt compared to $175.0 million
in 2001.

•

The Company
paid off $223.6 million of secured and unsecured debt in 2001 compared to $72.0
million in 2002. During 2001, the Company took advantage of excess liquidity to
pay off a portion of its secured debt early.

•

Distributions
to common shareholders increased from $228.0 million in 2001 to $242.5 million
in 2002, which reflects the increase in common shares outstanding and the
quarterly per share dividend increase from $.45 to $.455 in 2002.

The $139.9 million increase in net cash used for financing activities
from 2000 to 2001 was attributable to the following:

•

The Company
had net borrowings of $14.7 million in 2000 compared to net repayments of
$125.1 million in 2001 as discussed above.

•

The Company
paid off $75.7 million of secured debt in 2000 compared to $223.6 million in
2001 as discussed above.

Credit Ratings

The Company is currently assigned investment grade corporate credit
ratings on its senior unsecured notes from Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investor
Service and Standard and Poor’s Ratings Group. Currently, Fitch and Standard
and Poor’s have assigned a rating of BBB+ and Moody’s Investors has assigned a
rating of Baa1 to the senior notes. These ratings could change based upon,
among other things, the Company’s results of operations and financial
condition.

The Company also has received credit ratings from the same rating
agencies on its preferred stock.  Fitch
and Standard and Poor’s have assigned a rating of BBB and Moody’s Investors has
assigned a rating of Baa2. These ratings could change based upon, among other
things, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.

Derivative Financial Instruments

The Company is exposed to capital market risk, such as changes in
interest rates.  In order to manage the
volatility relating to interest rate risk, the Company may enter into interest
rate hedging arrangements from time to time. The Company does not utilize
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. On
January 1, 2001, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
No. 133, “

Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities

”, as amended (“SFAS 133”). SFAS
133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments
and requires that entities recognize all derivatives as either assets or
liabilities and measure those instruments at fair value. The cumulative effect
of adopting SFAS 133 was not material to the Company’s financial statements.

During the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company recorded
a $1.4 million gain and a $1.4 million loss, respectively, associated with an
interest rate contract that did not qualify for hedge accounting.  The contract expired on December 30, 2002.


In December 2002, the Company simultaneously entered into two $50
million forward-starting interest rate swaps. The Company designated the
aggregate $100 million swaps as a hedge to effectively fix the rate on
financing expected in 2003. The Company expects and intends that the financing
will be a ten-year fixed-rate semi-annual financing, pricing between May 1,
2003 and November 1, 2003. The fair value of the swaps was a liability of
($2.1) million as of December 31, 2002, and is recorded in other liabilities in
the accompanying balance sheet. The swaps qualify for hedge accounting under
SFAS 133, therefore, changes in fair value will be recorded in other
comprehensive income.

In July 2001, the Company terminated three interest rate swaps that
were tied to an $85 million unsecured term loan. The swaps qualified for hedge
accounting under SFAS 133. The costs to terminate the swaps was $548,000, which
was recorded as interest expense and reversed out of other comprehensive
income.

Investments in Unconsolidated
Companies

The Company has equity interests ranging from 10 – 64% in
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures that own and operate rental
properties and hold land for development. The equity method of accounting is
used for these investments in which the Company has the ability to exercise
significant influence, but not control, over operating and financial policies.
As a result, the assets and liabilities of these joint ventures are not included
on the Company’s balance sheet.

The Company’s investment in unconsolidated companies represents less
than 6% of the Company’s total assets as of December 31, 2002. This investment
provides several benefits to the Company including increased market share and
an additional source of capital to fund real estate projects.

The following tables presents summarized financial information for the
Company’s investments in unconsolidated companies for the years ended December
31, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands, except percentages):

In October 2000,
the Company sold or contributed industrial properties and undeveloped land with
a fair value of $487 million to a joint venture (Dugan Realty LLC) in which the
Company has a 50% interest and recognized a net gain of $35.2 million. This
transaction expanded an existing joint venture with an institutional real
estate investor. As a result of the total transactions, the Company received
$363.9 million of proceeds. The joint venture partially financed this
transaction with $350 million of secured mortgage debt of which the Company has
guaranteed $90 million and agreed to provide additional capital contributions
to pay all sums due under the remaining $260 million. At December 31, 2002,
this $350 million of debt is collateralized by rental properties with a net
carrying value substantially in excess of the outstanding debt. If required to
make additional capital contributions, the Company will receive proportionately
increased ownership in the respective collateralized properties. The Company
does not


anticipate that it
will be required to satisfy the guarantee or additional capital contribution
obligations. In connection with this transaction, the joint venture partners
were given an option to put up to a $50 million interest in the joint venture
to the Company in exchange for common stock of the Company or cash, subject to
timing and other restrictions. As a result of this put option, the Company
deferred $10.2 million of gain on sale of depreciated property and recorded a
$50 million liability. At December 31, 2002, the joint venture owns 130
buildings totaling approximately 23 million square feet with a value of
approximately $760 million. The Company provides real estate related services
to the venture through its Service Operations.

In December 2000, the Company contributed 14 industrial properties,
including five under development, totaling approximately three million square
feet to a joint venture (Dugan Texas LLC) in which the Company has a 50%
interest. The Company also contributed 145 acres of undeveloped land. The
Company received $33.1 million of proceeds and recorded a net gain of $686,000
as a result of the transaction. At December 31, 2002, the joint venture owns 32
buildings totaling approximately 6 million square feet with a value of
approximately $224 million. The Company provides real estate related services
to the venture through its Service Operations.

The Company does not have any relationships with unconsolidated
entities or financial partnerships, such as “special purpose entities,” which
were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements
or other specific purposes.

Related Party Transactions

The Company provides property management, leasing, construction and
other tenant related services to properties in which certain executives have
ownership interests. The Company has an option to acquire these executive
officers’ interests in these properties (the “Option Properties”). The Company
received fees totaling $1.4 million, $1.7 million and $1.9 million in 2002,
2001 and 2000, respectively, for services provided to the Option Properties.
The fees charged by the Company for such services are equivalent to those
charged to third-party owners for similar services.

On June 27, 2001, A. Ray Weeks, Jr. resigned his position as a director
and Vice Chairman of the Company. On August 17, 2001, the Company redeemed
620,156 limited partnership units beneficially owned by Mr. Weeks and certain
members of his immediate and extended family (the “Weeks Affiliates”). The
deemed value of the units redeemed was $15.7 million, which was based on the
average closing stock price of the Company for a certain period of days
preceding the redemption date. As consideration for the redemption, the Weeks
Affiliates received a distribution of seven industrial rental properties and
one undeveloped tract of land located in the Atlanta, Georgia metropolitan area
with a value of $31.7 million.  The
Weeks Affiliates also assumed a loan in the amount of $16 million from Wachovia
Bank, N.A. to the Company. The value of the properties distributed to the Weeks
Affiliates was based on negotiations between Mr. Weeks and members of the
Company’s executive committee, and was approved by the unaffiliated members of
the Board of Directors.

In 2002, the Company received lease termination fees totaling $7.7
million from a tenant that is a subsidiary of Progress Energy. William
Cavanaugh III is President and Chief Executive Officer of Progress Energy and a
member of the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company’s independent directors
approved the transaction and management believes that the amount received
approximates a value that would have been charged to tenants with similar lease
terms and commitments.

The Company has other related party transactions that are insignificant
and terms are considered to be at arm’s-length and equal to those negotiated
with independent parties.

Commitments and Contingencies

The Company has the following commitments and contingencies in addition
to those previously disclosed:


In 1998 and 1999, members of management and the Board of Directors
purchased $69 million of common stock in connection with an Executive and
Senior Officer Stock Purchase Plan. The purchases were financed by five-year
personal loans at market interest rates from financial institutions. As of
December 31, 2002, the outstanding balance on these loans is $33.5 million as
some participants have exited the 
program and repaid their principal balance. These loans are secured by
$41.0 million of common shares (based on a price per share of $25.45 at
December 31, 2002) purchased through this program and held at December 31,
2002, by the remaining plan participants. As a condition of the financing
agreement with the financial institution, the Company has guaranteed repayment
of principal, interest and other obligations for each participant, but is fully
indemnified by the participants. In the opinion of management, it is not
probable that the Company will be required to satisfy these guarantees.

The Company has entered into agreements, subject to the completion of
due diligence requirements, resolution of certain contingencies and completion
of customary closing conditions, for the future acquisition of land totaling
$26.2 million. The acquisitions are scheduled to close periodically through
2003.

The Company renewed all major insurance programs for 2002-2003,
including obtaining coverage for acts of terrorism for its properties. The
Company believes that insurance is in place that provides adequate coverage to
provide financial protection against normal insurance risks such that it
believes that any loss experienced would not have a significant impact on the
Company’s liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that
arise in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the
amount of any ultimate liability with respect to these actions will not
materially affect the Company’s consolidated financial statements or results of
operations.

Funds From Operations

Management believes that Funds From Operations (“FFO”) is the industry
standard for reporting the operations of real estate investment trusts. FFO is
defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts as GAAP
net income or loss, excluding gains or losses from sales of depreciated
operating property, plus operating property depreciation and amortization and
adjustments for minority interest and unconsolidated companies on the same
basis.

The following table reflects the calculation of FFO for the years ended
December 31 (in thousands):

While management believes that FFO is the most relevant and widely used
measure of the Company’s operating performance, such amount does not represent
cash flow from operations as defined by generally accepted accounting
principles, should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an
indicator of the Company’s operating performance, and is not indicative of cash
available to fund all cash flow needs.

Accounting Changes

The Company elected to prospectively adopt Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123,

“Accounting
for Stock Based Compensation,”(“SFAS 123”)

effective January 1,
2002. As a result, the


Company expenses stock options over the vesting period based upon the
estimated fair value of the options at the date of grant. Additionally, the
Company expenses the discount given to employees under the employee stock purchase
plan. The Company recorded expense of $405,000 for the year ended 2002 related
to stock compensation from this accounting change.

In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 123, the Company adopted SFAS
No. 148,

“Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation- Transition and Disclosure,”

which amends SFAS No.
123.  SFAS No. 148 provides for
alternative methods of transition for a voluntary adoption of SFAS 123 and
amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS 123 to require disclosures in both
annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for
stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported
results. The adoption of this statement using the prospective method did not
have a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of
the Company.

The Company adopted SFAS No. 144,

“Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets,”

(“SFAS 144”)
on January 1, 2002.  SFAS 144 requires
the Company to report in discontinued operations the results of operations of a
property that has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale,
unless certain conditions are met. The effect of adoption of SFAS 144 resulted
in net income, net of effects of minority interest, of $2.9 million, $3.1
million and $1.0 million being classified as discontinued operations for the
three years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. SFAS 144 also
requires that any gains or losses from the sale of a property be reported in
discontinued operations, unless certain conditions are met. The Company also
classified a gain on the sale of properties, net of minority interest, of $2.5
million as discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2002.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
SFAS No. 145, which rescinded SFAS No. 4, SFAS No. 44 and SFAS No. 64, as well
as amending SFAS No. 13.  The adoption
of this statement is not expected to have a material impact on the financial position
or results of operations of the Company.

In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146,

“Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities,”

which addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with
exit or disposal activities. The provisions of this statement are effective for
exit and disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. The
adoption of this statement is not expected to have a material impact on the
financial position or results of operations of the Company.

In November 2002, FASB issued Interpretation No. 45,

Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others

(“Interpretation
45”)

,

which addresses the
disclosure to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial
statements about its obligations under guarantees. These disclosure
requirements are included in the footnotes to the consolidated financial
statements. Interpretation 45 also requires the recognition of a liability by a
guarantor at the inception of certain guarantees.

Interpretation 45 requires the guarantor to recognize a liability for
the non-contingent component of the guarantee, which is the obligation to stand
ready to perform in the event that specified triggering events or conditions
occur. The initial measurement of this liability is the fair value of the
guarantee at inception. The recognition of the liability is required even if it
is not probable that payments will be required under the guarantee or if the
guarantee was issued with a premium payment or as part of a transaction with
multiple elements. The Company has adopted the disclosure requirements of
Interpretation 45 and will apply the recognition and measurement provisions for
all guarantees entered into or modified after December 31, 2002.

In January 2003, FASB issued Interpretation 46,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

(“Interpretation
46”)

,

which addresses
consolidation of certain variable interest entities and is effective


January 31, 2003. The Company will review its investments in
unconsolidated companies based on this new accounting pronouncement, but does
not anticipate that the adoption of Interpretation 46 will have a material
impact on its financial statements.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks

The Company is exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result
of its line of credit and long-term debt used to maintain liquidity and fund
capital expenditures and expansion of the Company’s real estate investment
portfolio and operations. The Company’s interest rate risk management objective
is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and
to lower its overall borrowing costs. To achieve its objectives the Company
borrows primarily at fixed rates and may enter into derivative financial
instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury locks in order to
mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. The Company
does not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative
purposes.

The Company’s interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of
techniques. The table below presents the principal amounts (in thousands) of
the expected annual maturities, weighted average interest rates for the average
debt outstanding in the specified period, fair values and other terms required
to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes.
The fair values of the Company’s debt instruments are calculated as the present
value of estimated future cash flows using a discount rate commensurate with
the risks involved.

As the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of
December 31, 2002, it does not consider those exposures or positions that could
arise after that date. As a result, the Company’s ultimate realized gain or loss
with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that
arise during the period, the Company’s hedging strategies at that time, and
interest rates.

In December 2002, the Company entered into two $50 million
forward-starting interest rate swaps. The fair value of the swaps was a
liability of ($2.1) million as of December 31, 2002. See footnote 12 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements and supplementary data are included under Item
15 of this Report.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

None.


Part III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information with respect to the directors of the Company is
incorporated by reference from the Company’s 2003 Proxy Statement (the “ 2003
Proxy Statement”) for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April
30, 2003. The 2003 Proxy Statement was filed by the Company on March 7, 2003.
Certain information with respect to the Company’s executive officers appears in
Item 4 of this Form 10-K. The information with respect to this item required by
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference from the Proxy
Statement.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Information with respect to this item is incorporated herein by
reference from the 2003 Proxy Statement filed on March 7, 2003.

Item 12. Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Information with respect to this item is
incorporated

herein by reference from the 2003 Proxy Statement filed on
March 7, 2003.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information with respect to this item is
incorporated

herein by
reference from the 2003 Proxy Statement filed on March 7, 2003.

Item 14.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our annual and
periodic reports filed with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. These
disclosure controls and procedures are further designed to ensure that such
information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
chief executive officer and chief financial officer, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.

Based on the most recent evaluation, which was completed within 90 days
of the filing of this report, our chief executive officer and chief financial
officer believe that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
There have been no significant changes in our internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect the internal controls subsequent to the
date we completed our evaluation.

Part IV

Item 15

.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
Reports on Form 8-K

(a)     The
following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K:

1.         Consolidated Financial Statements

The following
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, together with the Independent
Auditors’ Report, are listed below:


Consolidated
  Statements of Shareholders’ Equity, Years Ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and

Notes to
  Consolidated Financial Statements

2.         Consolidated
Financial Statement

Schedules

Schedule
III – Real Estate and Accumulated

Depreciation

3.

Exhibits

The following exhibits are filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated
herein by reference to the listed document previously filed with the SEC.
Previously unfiled documents are noted with an asterisk (*).





# Represents management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

The Company will furnish to any security holder, upon written request,
copies of any exhibit incorporated by reference, for a fee of 15 cents per
page, to cover the costs of furnishing the exhibits. Written request should
include a representation that the person making the request was the beneficial
owner of securities entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

The Company filed a Form 8-K on October 16, 2002, which set forth the
audited consolidated statements of operations of the Company for the years
ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, including an additional footnote
thereto, which reflects the impact of the Company’s adoption of SFAS No. 144.

(c)

Exhibits

The exhibits required to be filed with this Form 10-K pursuant to Item
601 of Regulation S-K or listed under “Exhibits” in Part IV, Item 14(a)(3) of
Form 10-K, which are incorporated herein by reference.

(d)

Financial Statement Schedule

The Financial Statement Schedule required to be filed with this Form
10-K is listed under “Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules” in Part IV,
Item 14(a)(2) of this Form 10-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.


Independent Auditors’ Report

The Shareholders and Directors of

Duke Realty Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Duke Realty
Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and shareholders’ equity for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2002. In
connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also
have audited the financial statement schedule III. These consolidated financial
statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Duke Realty
Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2002, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule III, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

KPMG LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana

January 29, 2003


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated Balance Sheets

As of December 31

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

See accompanying Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated Statements of Operations

For the Years Ended December 31

(in thousands, except per share
amounts)

See accompanying Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows

For the Years
Ended December 31

(in thousands)

See
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

(in thousands,
except per share data)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements

(1)

The Company

The Company’s rental
operations are conducted through Duke Realty Limited Partnership (“DRLP”), an
entity in which the Company owns a 90.1% interest at December 31, 2002. The
remaining interests in DRLP are redeemable for shares of the Company’s common
stock. The Company conducts Service Operations through Duke Realty Services
Limited Partnership (“DRSLP”), in which the Company is the sole general
partner. The Company also conducts Service Operations through Duke Construction
Limited Partnership (“DCLP”), which is effectively 100% owned by DRLP. The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries.

(2)

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of
Consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries. The equity interests in these
majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries not owned by the Company are
reflected as minority interests in the consolidated financial statements. All
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in the
consolidated financial statements. Investments in entities that the Company
does not control through majority voting interest or where the other owner has
substantial participating rights are not consolidated and are reflected as
investments in unconsolidated companies.

Reclassifications

Certain
2000 and 2001 balances have been reclassified to conform to 2002 presentation.

Real Estate
Investments

Real
estate investments to be held for rental are stated at the lower of cost less
accumulated depreciation or fair value if impairment is identified. Real estate
investments to be disposed of are reported at the lower of their carrying
amount or fair value less cost to sell. Buildings and land improvements are
depreciated on the straight-line method over their estimated life not to exceed
40 and 15 years, respectively, and tenant improvement costs are depreciated on
the straight-line method over the term of the related lease.

Direct
and indirect costs, including interest and real estate taxes associated with
the development, construction, leasing or expansion of real estate investments
are capitalized as a cost of the property. 
Included in indirect costs is an estimate of internal costs associated
with development and leasing of real estate investments. All external costs
associated with the acquisition of real estate investments are capitalized as a
cost of the property.

Upon
the acquisition of rental property, the Company evaluates all in-place tenant
lease agreements to determine if the leases are at, below or above market
rates. If a lease is determined to be above or below market, a corresponding
asset or liability is recorded and amortized into income over the life of the
lease. At the time of acquisition, a deferred lease commission asset is also
recorded and amortized over the lease’s remaining life.

The
Company evaluates its real estate investments to be held and used upon
occurrence of significant changes in the operations, but not less than
annually, to assess whether any impairment indications are present, including
recurring operating losses and significant adverse changes in legal factors or
business climate that affect the recovery of the recorded value. If any real
estate investment is considered impaired, a loss is provided to reduce the
carrying value of the property to its estimated fair value.


Acquisitions
of minority interests for the Company’s common shares are recorded under the
purchase method with assets acquired reflected at the fair market value of the
Company’s common stock on the date of acquisition, net of the retirement of any
minority interest liabilities. The acquisition amounts are allocated to Company
assets based on their estimated fair values.

The
Company has equity interests in unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures
that own and operate rental properties and hold land for development. The
equity method of accounting is used for these investments in which the Company
has the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over
operating and financial policies. Any difference between the carrying amount of
these investments and the underlying equity in net assets is amortized to
equity in earnings of unconsolidated companies over the depreciable life of the
property, generally 40 years.

Cash
Equivalents

Highly
liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased are
classified as cash equivalents.

Deferred Costs

Costs
incurred in connection with obtaining financing are amortized to interest
expense on the straight-line method over the term of the related loan. All
direct and indirect costs, including estimated internal costs, associated with
the leasing of real estate investments owned by the Company are capitalized and
amortized over the term of the related lease. Unamortized costs are charged to
expense upon the early termination of the lease or upon early payment of the
financing.

Revenues

Rental Operations

Rental
income from leases with scheduled rental increases during their terms is
recognized on a straight-line basis.

Service Operations

Management
fees are based on a percentage of rental receipts of properties managed and are
recognized as the rental receipts are collected. Maintenance fees are based
upon established hourly rates and are recognized as the services are performed.
Construction management and development fees for third party contracts are
recognized as earned based on the terms of the contract, which approximates the
percentage of completion method.

The
Company recognizes income on long-term construction contracts where the Company
serves as a general contractor on the percentage of completion method. Using
this method, profits are recorded on the basis of the Company’s estimates of
the percentage of completion of individual contracts, commencing when progress
reaches a point where experience is sufficient to estimate final results with
reasonable accuracy. That portion of the estimated earnings is accrued on the
basis of the Company’s estimates of the percentage of completion based on
contract expenditures incurred and work performed.

Property Sales

Gains
from sales of depreciated property are recognized in accordance with Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 66, and are included in earnings
from sales of land and depreciable


property
dispositions, net of impairment adjustment, in the Statement of Operations if
identified as held for sale prior to adoption of SFAS 144 and in discontinued
operations if identified as held for sale after adoption of SFAS 144.

Gains
or losses from the sale of property which is considered held for sale in DCLP
are recognized in accordance with SFAS 66 and are included in construction
management and development activity income in the Statement of Operations.

Net Income Per
Common Share

Basic
net income per common share is computed by dividing net income available for
common shares by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for
the period. Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing the sum of net
income available for common shares and minority interest in earnings of
unitholders, by the sum of the weighted average number of common shares and
units outstanding and dilutive potential common shares for the period.

The
following table reconciles the components of basic and diluted net income per
share (in thousands):

The
Series D Convertible Preferred stock and the Series G Convertible Preferred
limited partner units were anti-dilutive for the years ended December 31, 2002,
2001 and 2000; therefore, no conversion to common shares is included in
weighted dilutive potential common shares. 
In September 2002, the Company redeemed the Series G Convertible
Preferred units at their par value of $35.0 million.

A
joint venture partner in one of the Company’s unconsolidated companies has the
option to convert a portion of its ownership to Company common shares (see
discussion in Investments in Unconsolidated Companies section). The effect of
the option on earnings per share was dilutive for the year ended December 31,
2001; therefore, conversion to common shares is included in weighted dilutive
potential common shares.

Federal Income
Taxes

The Company has elected
to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) under the Internal
Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must meet a number of
organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that it
currently distribute at least 90% of its taxable income to its
stockholders.  Management intends to
continue to adhere to these requirements and to maintain the Company’s REIT
status. As a REIT, the Company is entitled to a tax deduction

for some or all of the dividends it pays to its
shareholders. Accordingly, the Company generally will not be subject to federal
income taxes as long as it distributes an amount equal to or in excess of its
taxable income currently to its stockholders. 
A REIT generally is subject to federal income taxes on any taxable
income that is not currently distributed to its shareholders. If the Company
fails to


qualify as a REIT in any
taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes and may not be able to
qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years.

REIT qualification
reduces, but does not eliminate, the amount of state and local taxes paid by
the Company. In addition, the Company’s financial statements include the
operations of taxable corporate subsidiaries that are not entitled to a
dividends paid deduction and are subject to corporate federal, state and local
income taxes.  As a REIT, the Company
may also be subject to certain federal excise taxes if it engages in certain
types of transactions.

The following table
reconciles the Company’s net income to its taxable income before the dividends
paid deduction for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:

The Company’s dividends
paid deduction is summarized below:

A summary of the tax
characterization of the dividends paid per common share for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 follows:

The
Company recorded federal and state
income taxes of $10.4 million, $4.6 million and $8.0 million for 2002, 2001 and
2000, respectively, which were attributable to the earnings of the Company’s
taxable subsidiaries. The taxable REIT subsidiaries had no significant deferred
income tax item

s.

Stock Based
Compensation

For all issuances prior to 2002, the Company applies
the recognition and measurement provisions of APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,

and
related Interpretations in accounting for these plans. For stock options
granted prior to 2002, no compensation expense is reflected in net income as
all options granted had an exercise price equal to the market value of the
underlying common stock on the date of the grant.

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company prospectively
adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,

to all awards granted after January 1, 2002.


Fair Value Of
Financial Instruments

The
fair values of the Company’s financial instruments, other than derivative
financial instruments, are generally calculated as the present value of
estimated future cash flows using a discount rate commensurate with the risks
involved. The fair value approximates the carrying value for all financial
instruments except indebtedness, which is discussed in Footnote 6 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Derivative
Financial Instruments

The Company adopted SFAS
No. 133 “

Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities

” as amended (“SFAS 133”), on
January 1, 2001. SFAS 133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded
on the balance sheet at their fair value. Gains or losses resulting from
changes in the values of those derivatives would be accounted for depending on
the use of the derivative and whether it qualifies for hedge accounting. The
Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to
mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. SFAS 133
requires that changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify as cash flow
hedges be recognized in other comprehensive income while the ineffective
portion of the derivative’s change in fair value be recognized immediately in
earnings.

To determine the fair
value of derivative instruments, the Company uses standard market conventions
and techniques such as discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and
termination cost at each balance sheet date. All methods of assessing fair
value result in a general approximation of value, and such value may never
actually be realized.

Use Of
Estimates

The
preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management of the
Company to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reported
amount of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

(3)

Related Party Transactions

The Company provides
property management, leasing, construction and other tenant related services to
properties in which certain executives have ownership interests. The Company has
an option to acquire these executive officers’ interests in these properties
(the “Option Properties”). The Company received fees totaling $1.4 million,
$1.7 million and $1.9 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, for
services provided to the Option Properties. The fees charged by the Company for
such services are equivalent to those charged to third-party owners for similar
services.

On June 27, 2001, A. Ray
Weeks, Jr. resigned his position as a director and Vice Chairman of the
Company. On August 17, 2001, the Company redeemed 620,156 limited partnership
units beneficially owned by Mr. Weeks and certain members of his immediate and
extended family (the “Weeks Affiliates”). The deemed value of the units
redeemed was $15.7 million, which was based on the average closing stock price
of the Company for a certain period of days preceding the redemption date. As
consideration for the redemption, the Weeks Affiliates received a distribution
of seven industrial rental properties and one undeveloped tract of land located
in the Atlanta, Georgia metropolitan area with a value of $31.7 million.  The Weeks Affiliates also assumed a loan in
the amount of $16 million from Wachovia Bank, N.A. to the Company. The value of
the properties distributed to the Weeks Affiliates was based on negotiations
between Mr. Weeks and members of the Company’s executive committee, and was
approved by the unaffiliated members of the Board of Directors.


In 2002, the Company
received lease termination fees totaling $7.7 million from a tenant that is a
subsidiary of Progress Energy. William Cavanaugh III is President and Chief
Executive Officer of Progress Energy and a member of the Company’s Board of
Directors. The Company’s independent directors approved the transaction and
management believes that the amount received approximates a value that would
have been charged to tenants with similar lease terms and commitments.

The Company has other
related party transactions that are insignificant and terms are considered to
be at arm’s-length and equal to those negotiated with independent parties.

(4)

Investments in Unconsolidated Companies

The
Company has equity interests ranging from 10 – 64% in unconsolidated
partnerships and joint ventures that own and operate rental properties and hold
land for development. The equity method of accounting is used for these
investments in which the Company has the ability to exercise significant
influence, but not control, over operating and financial policies. Any
difference between the carrying amount of these investments and the underlying
equity in net assets is amortized to equity in earnings of unconsolidated
companies over the depreciable life of the property, generally 40 years.

Combined
summarized financial information for the investments in unconsolidated
companies as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and for the years ended December
31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, are as follows (in thousands):

The following significant transactions

involving
unconsolidated companies in which the Company has an equity interest have
occurred over the past three years:

In
2002, the Company recognized a gain of $1.8 million on the sale of a
“Build-to-Suit” building out of a joint venture in which the Company owned a
50% interest. The gain is recorded in equity in earnings in the Statement of
Operations. In addition to this sale, the Company received approximately $29.2
million of earnings distributions from its various joint ventures.

Also
in 2002, the Company bought out its other partners’ interest in six separate
joint ventures.  The Company had a 50%
interest in each of these ventures prior to their acquisition.

In
2001, the Company received approximately $50.0 million in cash distributions
resulting from secured debt financing within two joint ventures. The Company
has a 50% interest in both ventures. The debt is entirely collateralized by
rental properties within the ventures and the Company is not a guarantor on the
debt.

Also in 2001, the Company
recognized a gain of $2.9 million from the sale of a building out of a joint
venture in which the Company owned a 50% interest. The gain is recorded in
equity in earnings in the Statement of Operations.


In October 2000, the
Company sold or contributed industrial properties and undeveloped land with a
fair value of $487 million to a joint venture (Dugan Realty LLC) in which the
Company has a 50% interest and recognized a net gain of $35.2 million. This
transaction expanded an existing joint venture with an institutional real
estate investor. As a result of the total transactions, the Company received
$363.9 million of proceeds. The joint venture financed this transaction with $350
million of secured mortgage debt of which the Company has guaranteed $90
million and agreed to provide additional capital contributions to pay all sums
due under the remaining $260 million. At December 31, 2002, this $350 million
of debt is collateralized by rental properties with net carrying value
substantially in excess of the outstanding debt. If required to make additional
capital contributions, the Company will receive proportionately increased
ownership in the respective collateralized properties. The Company does not
anticipate that it will be required to satisfy the guarantee or additional
capital contribution obligations. In connection with this transaction, the
joint venture partners were given an option to put up to $50 million interest
in the joint venture to the Company in exchange for common stock of the Company
or cash, subject to timing and other restrictions. As a result of this put
option, the Company deferred $10.2 million of gain on sale of depreciated
property and recorded a $50 million liability. At December 31, 2002, the joint
venture owns 130 buildings totaling approximately 23 million square feet with a
net book value of approximately $760 million. The Company provides real estate
related services to the venture through its Service Operations.

In
December 2000, the Company contributed 14 industrial properties, including five
under development, totaling approximately three million square feet to a joint
venture (Dugan Texas LLC) in which the Company has a 50% interest. The Company
also contributed 145 acres of undeveloped land. The Company received $33.1
million of proceeds and recorded a net gain of $686,000 as a result of the
transaction. At December 31, 2002, the joint venture owns 32 buildings totaling
approximately 6 million square feet with a value of approximately $224 million.
The Company provides real estate related services to the venture through its
Service Operations.

(5)

Real Estate
Investments

The
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, “

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long
Lived Assets

”(“SFAS 144”), on January 1, 2002. SFAS 144 requires the
Company to report in discontinued operations the results of operations of a
property which has either been disposed or is classified as held for sale,
unless certain conditions are met.

The Company has
classified operations of nine buildings as discontinued operations in
accordance with SFAS 144. As a result, the Company classified net income, net
of minority interest, of $2.9 million, $3.1 million and $1.0 million as net
income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2002, 2001
and 2000. In addition, two of the properties were sold during 2002 that were
identified as held for sale post adoption of SFAS 144; therefore, the gains on
disposal for these two properties of $2.5 million are also reported in
discontinued operations.

At
December 31, 2002, the Company had 3 industrial, 6 office and 6 retail
properties comprising approximately 1.1 million square feet held for sale. Of
these properties, 3 build-to-suit office and 3 build-to-suit retail properties
were under development. Net operating income (defined as total property
revenues, less property expenses, which include real estate taxes, repairs and
maintenance, property management, utilities, insurance and other expenses) of
the properties held for sale for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and
2000 is approximately $4.3 million, $3.2 million, and $1.1 million,
respectively. Net book value of the properties held for sale at December 31,
2002, is approximately $57.1 million. There can be no assurance that such
properties held for sale will be sold.


In association with the
Company’s assessment of its properties under SFAS 144, six of its 910
properties were identified as having impairment in 2002. The Company recorded a
$9.4 million impairment adjustment associated with these properties in 2002.
The Company has analyzed each of its in-service properties and has determined
that there are no additional valuation adjustments that need to be made at
December 31, 2002. In 2001, the Company recorded a $4.8 million impairment
adjustment on a single property that was sold in 2002.

(6)

Indebtedness

Indebtedness
at December 31 consists of the following (in thousands):

The
fair value of the Company’s indebtedness as of December 31, 2002, was $2.3
billion.

As
of December 31, 2002, the $299.1 million of secured debt is collateralized by
rental properties with a net carrying value of $561.3 million.

The
Company has the following lines of credit available (in thousands):

Description

Borrowing

Capacity

Maturity

Date

Interest

Rate

Outstanding

at December

31, 2002

Unsecured
  Line of Credit

$

500,000

February 2004

LIBOR + .65

%

$

281,000

Secured
  Line of Credit

$

50,000

January 2006

LIBOR + .60

%

$

23,895

The
lines of credit are used to fund development activities, to acquire additional
rental properties and to provide working capital.

In
December 2002, the Company renewed its secured line of credit by which the
capacity was reduced from $100 million to $50 million, the interest rate
reduced from LIBOR + 1.05% to LIBOR + .60%, and the maturity date extended to
January 2006.

The $500 million line of
credit allows the Company an option to obtain borrowings from the financial
institutions that participate in the line of credit at rates lower than the
stated interest rate, subject to certain restrictions. Amounts outstanding on
the line of credit at December 31, 2002 are at LIBOR + .65% (2.07% at December
31, 2002).

In
January 2003, the Company completed an issuance of unsecured debt totaling $175
million, bearing interest at 5.25% and due 2010.

At
December 31, 2002, scheduled amortization and maturities of all indebtedness
for the next five years and thereafter are as follows  (in thousands):


Cash
paid for interest in 2002, 2001, and 2000 was $125.9 million, $140.5 million
and $156.5 million, respectively. Total interest capitalized in 2002, 2001 and
2000 was $13.5 million, $25.9 million and $33.0 million, respectively.

(7)

Segment Reporting

The
Company is engaged in four operating segments, the ownership and rental of
office, industrial, and retail real estate investments (“Rental Operations”)
and the providing of various real estate services such as property management,
maintenance, leasing, and construction management to third-party property
owners (“Service Operations”). The Company’s reportable segments offer
different products or services and are managed separately because each requires
different operating strategies and management expertise. There are no material
intersegment sales or transfers.

Non-segment
revenue to reconcile to total revenue consists mainly of equity in earnings of
joint ventures. Non- segment assets reconciliation to total assets consists of
corporate assets including cash, deferred financing costs and investments in
unconsolidated subsidiaries.

The
accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.

The

Company

assesses and measures segment
operating results based on a performance measure referred to as Funds From
Operations (“FFO”). The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
defines FFO as GAAP net income or loss, excluding gains or losses from sales of
depreciated property, plus operating property depreciation and amortization and
adjustments for minority interest and unconsolidated companies on the same
basis. FFO is not a measure of operating results or cash flows from operating
activities as measured by generally accepted accounting principles, is not
necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be
considered an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. Interest
expense and other non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated
to individual segments in determining the Company’s performance measure.

The
revenues and FFO for each of the reportable segments are summarized as follows
for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, and the assets of each
reportable segment as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands):


(8)

Leasing Activity

Future minimum rents due to the Company under non-cancelable operating
leases at December 31, 2002,  are as
follows (in thousands):

In addition to minimum rents, certain leases require reimbursements of
specified operating expenses which amounted to $120.1 million, $115.7 million,
and $114.2  million for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

(9)

Employee Benefit Plans

The Company maintains a 401(k) plan for the benefit of its full-time
employees.  The Company matches the
employees’ contributions up to three percent of the employees’ salary and may
also make annual discretionary contributions. Total expense recognized by the
Company was $1.7 million, $1.3 million and $3.2 million for the years ended
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.


The Company makes contributions to a contributory health and welfare
plan as necessary to fund claims not covered by employee contributions. Total
expense recognized by the Company related to this plan was $4.9 million, $5.6
million and $6.0 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Included in
total expense is an estimate based on historical experience of the effect of
claims incurred but not reported as of year-end.

(10)

Shareholders’ Equity

The Company periodically accesses the public equity markets to fund the
development and acquisition of additional rental properties. The proceeds of
these offerings are contributed to DRLP in exchange for additional interest in
the partnership.

The following series of preferred stock are outstanding as of December
31, 2002 (in thousands, except percentages):

All series of
preferred

shares

require cumulative
distributions and have no stated maturity date.

The Series D

Preferred

shares are convertible at a
conversion rate of .93677 common shares for each preferred share outstanding.

The dividend rate
on the Series B Preferred shares increases to 9.99% after September 12, 2012.
The Company repurchased 355,000 shares of the Series B Preferred shares in
September 2002. The repurchase transaction was initiated by a group of Series B
Preferred shareholders who voluntarily approached the Company with an
opportunity for the Company to buyback these shares before their earliest
stated redemption date.

The Company

redeemed

its $150.0 million Series F
Preferred shares in October 2002 at par value.

Effective August
31, 2002, the Company terminated a shareholder rights plan that had included
the potential issuance of Series C Junior Preferred Stock.

(11)

Stock

Based

Compensation

At

December

31, 2002, the Company had nine
stock-based employee compensation plans that are described more fully
below.  The Company is authorized to
issue up to 8,569,860 shares of Company stock under these Plans.

Awards under the
Company’s plans generally vest over five years at 20% per year. Therefore, the
expense related to stock-based employee compensation included in the
determination of net income is less than that which would have been recognized
if the fair value method had been applied to all awards since the original
effective date of SFAS 123. The following table illustrates the effect on net
income and earnings per share if the fair value method had been applied to all
outstanding and unvested awards in each period.


The fair values of
the options were determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with
the following assumptions:

Fixed Stock Option
Plans

The Company had
options outstanding under six fixed stock option plans as of December 31, 2002.
Additional grants may be made under three of those plans.

A summary of the
status of the Company’s fixed stock option plans as of December 31, 2002, 2001
and 2000 and changes during the years ended on those dates follows:

The options
outstanding at December 31, 2002, under the fixed stock option plans have a
range of exercise prices from $11.87 to $25.50 with a weighted average exercise
price of $22.09 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.41
years. The options exercisable at December 31, 2002 have a weighted average
exercise price of $21.41.

Each option’s
maximum term is ten years. With limited exceptions, options vest at 20% per
year, or, if earlier, upon the death, retirement or disability of the optionee
or a change in control of the Company.

Performance Based
Stock Plans

Performance shares are granted under the 2000 Performance Share Plan,
with each performance share economically equivalent to one share of Company
common stock. The performance shares vest over a 5-year period with the vesting
percentage for a year dependent upon the Company’s attainment of certain
predefined levels of earnings growth for such year. The value of vested
performance shares are payable in cash upon the retirement or termination of
employment of the participant.  At
December 31, 2002, plan participants had the right to receive up to 61,922
performance shares, of which 30,423 were vested and 31,499 were contingent upon
future earnings achievement.

For grants prior
to 2002, compensation cost is based upon the value of the vested performance
shares at the end of each applicable reporting period. No grants were made in
2002 under this plan. The compensation cost that has been charged against
income for this plan was $96,000, $201,000 
and $962,000 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.


In October 2002,
the company amended its Shareholder Value Plan (“SVP Plan”) and Dividend
Increase Unit Plans (“DIU Plans”) by requiring that all payouts under these two
plans to be in cash only. The SVP Plan is based on the Company’s cumulative
shareholder return for a three-year period as compared to the cumulative total
return of the S&P 500 and the NAREIT Equity REIT Total Return indices. The
DIU Plans are based upon increases in the Company’s dividend. The total
compensation cost that has been charged against income for these two plans was
$4.6 million, $6.0 million and $6.7 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Directors Stock Payment Plan

Under the
Company’s 1999 Directors’ Stock Payment Plan, non-employee members of the
Company’s board of directors are entitled to 1,200 shares of Company stock per
year as partial compensation for services as a board member. The shares are
fully vested when issued and the value of the shares are recorded as an expense
by the Company. The amount of that expense was $274,000, $260,000 and $230,000
for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Under the Company’s
Employee Stock Purchase Plan, employees are entitled to purchase Company common
stock at a 15% discount through payroll deductions. Under SFAS 123, the Company
is required to record the amount of the discount as compensation expense. The
amount of that expense for 2002 was $181,496.

(12)

Derivative
Instruments

The Company is
exposed to capital market risk, such as changes in interest rates.  In order to manage the volatility relating
to interest rate risk, the Company may enter into interest rate hedging
arrangements from time to time. The Company does not utilize derivative
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. On January 1, 2001,
the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133 , “

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities

” as amended (“SFAS 133”). SFAS 133 establishes accounting
and reporting standards for derivative instruments and requires that entities
recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities and measure those
instruments at fair value. The cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 133 was not
material to the Company’s financial statements.

During the years
ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company recorded a $1.4 million gain and
a $1.4 million loss, respectively, associated with an interest rate contract
that did not qualify for hedge accounting. 
The contract expired on December 30, 2002.

In December 2002,
the Company simultaneously entered into two $50 million forward-starting
interest rate swaps. The Company designated the aggregate $100 million swaps as
a hedge to effectively fix the rate on financing expected in 2003. The Company
expects and intends that the financing will be a ten-year fixed-rate
semi-annual financing, pricing between May 1, 2003 and November 1, 2003. The
fair value of the swaps was a liability of ($2.1) million as of December 31,
2002, and is recorded in other liabilities in the accompanying balance sheet.
The swaps qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, therefore, changes in
fair value will be recorded in other comprehensive income.

In July 2001, the
Company terminated three interest rate swaps that were tied to an $85 million
unsecured term loan. The swaps qualified for hedge accounting under SFAS 133. The costs to terminate the swaps was
$548,000, which was recorded as interest expense and reversed out of other
comprehensive income.


(13)

Commitments and Contingencies

In 1998 and 1999,
members of management and the Board of Directors purchased $69 million of
common stock in connection with an Executive and Senior Officer Stock Purchase
Plan. The purchases were financed by five-year personal loans at market
interest rates from financial institutions. As of December 31, 2002, the outstanding
balance on these loans is $33.5 million as some participants have exited the
program and repaid their principal balance. These loans are secured by $41.0
million of common shares purchased through this program and held at December
31, 2002, by the remaining plan participants. As a condition of the financing
agreement with the financial institution, the Company has guaranteed repayment
of principal, interest and other obligations for each participant, but is fully
indemnified by the participants. In the opinion of management, it is not
probable that the Company will be required to satisfy these guarantees.

The Company has
entered into agreements, subject to the completion of due diligence
requirements, resolution of certain contingencies and completion of customary
closing conditions, for the future acquisition of land totaling $26.2 million.
The acquisitions are scheduled to close periodically through 2003 and will be
paid for through a combination of cash or DRLP Limited Partner Unit issuance.

The Company
renewed all major insurance programs for 2002-2003, including obtaining
coverage for acts of terrorism for its properties. The Company believes that
insurance is in place that provides adequate coverage to provide financial
protection against normal insurance risks such that it believes that any loss
experienced would not have a significant impact on the Company’s liquidity,
financial position, or results of operations.

The Company is
subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary
course of business.  In the opinion of
management, the amount of any ultimate liability with respect to these actions
will not materially affect the Company’s consolidated financial statements or
results of operations.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
  DEPRECIATION

Schedule

DECEMBER 31, 2002

(IN THOUSANDS)

















(1)

Depreciation of
real estate is computed using the straight-line method over 40 years for
buildings, 15 years for land improvements and shorter periods based on lease
terms (generally 3 to 10 years) for tenant improvements.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.


* By Dennis D. Oklak,
  Attorney-in-Fact

/s/  Dennis D. Oklak


CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Thomas L. Hefner, certify that:

Date: March 25, 2003

/s/ Thomas L. Hefner

Thomas L. Hefner

President and Chief
  Executive Officer


CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Darell E. Zink, Jr., certify that:

Date: March 25, 2003

/s/ Darell E. Zink, Jr.

Darell E. Zink, Jr.

Executive Vice President
  and Chief Financial Officer

74