10-K


a04-2962_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.  20549

FORM 10-K

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/10 interest in 7.99% Series B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares ($.01 par value)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90
days.       Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated
filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange
Act).  Yes

ý

No

o

The aggregate market value of the voting shares of the Registrant’s
outstanding common shares held by non-affiliates of the Registrant is $3.7
billion based on the last reported sale price on June 30, 2003.

The number of  Common Shares
outstanding as of February 26, 2004 was 137,933,858 ($.01 par value).

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2004
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 28, 2004, are
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

TABLE
OF CONTENTS

Form
10-K

PART I

Item
1.

Business

Risk Factors

There are certain risk factors associated with an investment of
securities issued by Duke Realty Corporation (the “Company”). Discussion of
these risk factors can be found within Item 7, Management’s Discussion and
Analysis, Financial Conditions and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report
Form 10-K and in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 24,
2003.

Background

The Company is a self-administered and self-managed real estate
investment trust (“REIT”), which began operations upon completion of its
initial public offering in February 1986. In October 1993, the
Company completed an additional common stock offering and acquired the rental
real estate and service businesses of Duke Associates, whose operations began
in 1972. As of December 31, 2003, the Company’s diversified portfolio of
899 rental properties (including 15 properties totaling 2.8 million square feet
under development) encompass over 109.0 million rentable square feet and are
leased by a diverse and stable base of approximately 4,100 tenants whose
businesses include manufacturing, retailing, wholesale trade, distribution and
professional services. The Company also owns or controls nearly 3,800 acres of
unencumbered land ready for development.

The Company, through its Service Operations, also provides, on a fee
basis, leasing, property and asset management, development, construction,
build-to-suit, and other tenant-related services for approximately 300 tenants
in over 8.4 million square feet of space at properties owned by third-party
clients. With 13 primary operating platforms, the Company concentrates its
activities in the Midwest and Southeast United States. See Item 7,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for
financial information. The Company’s rental operations are conducted through
Duke Realty Limited Partnership (“DRLP”). In addition, the Company conducts its
Service Operations through Duke Realty Services Limited Partnership (“DRSLP”)
and Duke Construction Limited Partnership (“DCLP”). All references to the “Company”
in this Form 10-K Report include the Company and those entities owned or
controlled by the Company, unless the context indicates otherwise.

The Company’s headquarters and executive offices are located in
Indianapolis, Indiana. In addition, the Company has twelve regional offices
located in Atlanta, Georgia; Cincinnati, Ohio; Columbus, Ohio; Cleveland, Ohio;
Chicago, Illinois; Dallas, Texas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Nashville, Tennessee;
Orlando, Florida; Raleigh, North Carolina; St. Louis, Missouri; and Tampa,
Florida. The Company had 1,011 employees as of December 31, 2003.

Business Strategy

The Company’s business objective is to increase its Funds From
Operations (“FFO”) by (i) maintaining and increasing property occupancy and
rental rates through the management of its portfolio of existing properties;
(ii) expanding existing properties; (iii) developing and acquiring new
properties; and (iv) providing a full line of real estate services to the
Company’s tenants and to third-parties. FFO is used by industry analysts and
investors as a supplemental operating 
performance measure of an equity REIT. FFO is calculated in accordance
with the definition that was adopted by the Board of Governors of the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”). FFO, as defined by
NAREIT, represents net income (loss) determined in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”), excluding
extraordinary items as defined under GAAP and gains or losses from sales of
previously depreciated operating real estate assets, plus certain non-cash
items such as real estate asset depreciation and amortization, and after
adjustment for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.


Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with
GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminish
predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen
or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have
considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use
historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Thus, NAREIT
created FFO as a supplemental measure of REIT operating performance that
excludes historical cost depreciation, among other items, from GAAP net income.
Management believes that the use of FFO, combined with the required primary
GAAP presentations, has improved the understanding of operating results of REITs
among the investing public and made comparisons of REIT operating results more
meaningful. Management generally considers FFO to be a useful measure for
reviewing comparative operating and financial performance (although FFO should
be reviewed in conjunction with net income which remains the primary measure of
performance) because by excluding gains or losses related to sales of
previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate
asset depreciation and amortization, FFO assists in comparing the operating
performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to
different companies.

As a fully integrated commercial real estate firm, the Company believes
that its in-house leasing, management, development and construction services
and the Company’s significant base of commercially zoned and unencumbered land
in existing business parks should give the Company a competitive advantage in
its future development activities.

The Company believes that the analysis of real estate opportunities and
risks can be done most effectively at regional or local levels. As a result,
the Company intends to continue its emphasis on increasing its market share and
effective rents in its primary markets where it owns properties. The Company
also expects to utilize its nearly 3,800 acres of unencumbered land and its
many business relationships with nearly 4,100 commercial tenants to expand its
build-to-suit business (development projects substantially pre-leased to a
single tenant) and to pursue other development and acquisition opportunities in
its primary markets. The Company believes that this regional focus will allow
it to assess market supply and demand for real estate more effectively as well
as to capitalize on its strong relationships with its tenant base.  In addition, the Company seeks to further
capitalize on strong customer relationships to provide third party construction
and build-for-sale services outside its primary markets.

The Company’s policy is to seek to develop and acquire Class A
commercial properties located in markets with high growth potential for Fortune
500 companies and other quality regional and local firms. The Company’s
industrial and suburban office development focuses on business parks and
mixed-use developments suitable for multiple projects on a single site where
the Company can create and control the business environment. These business
parks and mixed-use developments generally include restaurants and other
amenities, which the Company believes will create an atmosphere that is
particularly efficient and desirable. The Company’s retail development focuses
on lifestyle, community and neighborhood centers in its existing markets and is
developed primarily for held-for-sale opportunities. As a fully integrated real
estate company, the Company is able to arrange for or provide to its
industrial, office and retail tenants not only well located and well maintained
facilities, but also additional services such as build-to-suit construction,
tenant finish construction, expansion flexibility and advertising and marketing
services.

All of the Company’s properties are located in areas that include
competitive properties. Institutional investors, other REITs or local real
estate operators generally own such properties; however, no single competitor
or small group of competitors is dominant in the Company’s current markets. The
supply and demand of similar available rental properties may affect the rental
rates the Company will receive on its properties.

Financing Strategy

The Company seeks to maintain a well-balanced, conservative and
flexible capital structure by: (i) extending and sequencing the maturity dates
of its debt; (ii) borrowing primarily at fixed rates; (iii) generally pursuing
current and future long-term debt financings and refinancing on an unsecured
basis; and (iv) maintaining conservative debt service and fixed charge coverage
ratios. Management believes that these strategies have enabled and should
continue to enable the Company to favorably access capital markets for its
long-term


requirements such as debt refinancing and financing development and
acquisitions of additional rental properties. In addition, as discussed under
Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations,” the Company has a $500 million unsecured line of credit
available for short-term fundings of development and acquisition of additional
rental properties. In addition, the Company pursues favorable opportunities to
dispose of assets that no longer meet the Company’s long-term investment
criteria and re-deploy the proceeds into new investments that the Company
believes have excellent long-term growth prospects. The Company’s debt to total
market capitalization ratio (total market capitalization is defined as the
total market value of all outstanding Common and Preferred Shares and units of
limited partnership interest (“Units”) in DRLP plus outstanding indebtedness)
at December 31, 2003 was 30.8%. The Company’s ratio of earnings to debt
service and ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the year ended
December 31, 2003 were 2.10x and 1.81x, respectively. In computing the
ratio of earnings to debt service, earnings have been calculated by adding debt
service to income from continuing operations before earnings or losses from the
sale of land and depreciable property dispositions, net of impairment
adjustments and minority interest in earnings of DRLP. Debt service consists of
interest expense and recurring principal amortization (excluding maturities)
and excludes amortization of debt issuance costs. In computing the ratio of
earnings to fixed charges, earnings have been calculated by adding fixed
charges, excluding capitalized interest, to income from continuing operations
before earnings or losses from the sale of land and depreciable property
dispositions, net of impairment adjustments and minority interest in earnings
of DRLP. Fixed charges consist of interest costs, whether expensed or capitalized,
the interest component of rental expense, amortization of debt issuance costs
and preferred stock dividend requirements.

Corporate Governance

Since the Company’s inception, it not only has strived to be a
top-performer operationally, but also to lead in issues important to investors
such as disclosure and corporate governance. The Company’s system of governance
reinforces this commitment. Summarized below are the highlights of the
Company’s Corporate Governance initiatives.


The Company’s Code of Conduct and its Corporate Governance Guidelines
are available in the investor information/corporate governance section of
the Company’s website at www.dukerealty.com. 
A copy of these documents may also be obtained without charge by writing
to Duke Realty Corporation, 600 East 96

th

Street, Suite 100,
Indianapolis, Indiana 46240, Attention: Investor Relations.

Other

For additional information regarding the Company’s investments and
operations, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.” For additional information about the Company’s business
segments, see Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

In addition to this Annual Report, the Company files quarterly and
special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. All
documents that are filed with the SEC are available free of charge on the
Company’s corporate website, which is http://www.dukerealty.com. You may also
read and copy any document filed at the public reference facilities of the SEC
at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 25049.  Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information
about the public reference facilities. These documents also may be accessed
through the SEC’s electronic data gathering, analysis and retrieval system
(“EDGAR”) via electronic means, including the SEC’s home page on the Internet
(http://www.sec.gov). In addition, since some of our securities are listed on
the New York Stock Exchange, you can read SEC filings at the offices of the New
York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.

Item
2.

Properties

Product Review

As of December 31, 2003, the Company owns an interest in a
diversified portfolio of 899 commercial 
properties encompassing over 109.0 million net rentable square feet
(including 15 properties  comprising 2.8
million square feet under development) and more than 3,800 acres of land for
future development.

Industrial
Properties:

The Company owns interests in 642
industrial properties encompassing approximately 81.3 million square feet (74%
of total square feet) more specifically described as follows:

•

Bulk Warehouses –

Industrial
warehouse/distribution buildings with clear ceiling heights of 20 feet or more.
The Company owns 425 buildings totaling 68.1 million square feet of such
properties.

•

Service Centers –

Also known
as flex buildings or light industrial, this product type has 12-18 foot clear
ceiling heights and a combination of drive-up and dock-height loading access.
The Company owns 217 buildings totaling 13.2 million square feet of such
properties.

Office
Properties:

The Company owns interests in 250 office buildings totaling
approximately 26.9 million square feet (25% of total square feet) more
specifically described as follows:

•

Suburban Office –

The Company
owns 246 suburban office buildings totaling 26.0 million square feet.

•

CBD Office –

The Company owns
four downtown office projects totaling approximately 861,000 square feet.

Retail
Properties:

The Company owns interests in 7 retail projects totaling approximately
800,000 square feet (1% of total square feet). These properties encompass both
power and neighborhood shopping centers.

Land:

The
Company owns or controls more than 3,800 acres of land located primarily in its
existing business parks. The land is ready for immediate use and is
unencumbered. Over 60.0 million square feet of additional space can be
developed on these sites and substantially all of the land is zoned for either
office, industrial or retail development.


Service
Operations:

The Company provides property and asset
management, development, leasing and construction services to third party
owners in addition to its own properties. The Company’s current property
management base for third parties includes over 8.4 million square feet of
properties serving approximately 300 tenants.

Property Descriptions

The following schedule represents the geographic highlights of the
Company’s properties in its primary markets.


Duke Realty Corporation

Geographic
Highlights

In
Service Properties as of December 31, 2003

(1) Includes all wholly owned and joint venture
projects shown at 100% as of report date .

(2) Represents the average annual rental property
revenue due from tenants in occupancy as of the date of this report, excluding
additional rent due as operating expense reimbursements, landlord allowances
for operating expenses and percentage rents. Joint Venture properties are shown
at the Company’s ownership percentage.

(3) Represents properties not located in the
Company’s primary markets. These properties are located in similar midwest or
southeast markets.


Item
3.

Legal
Proceedings

Broadband Office, Inc. and Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of
Broadband Office, Inc. recently filed a complaint against a group of real
estate investment trusts and real estate operating companies and certain
affiliated entities and individuals in connection with the formation and
management of Broadband Office. Among the defendants are Duke Realty
Corporation, Duke Realty Limited Partnership and Mr. Dennis Oklak, one of the
Company’s executive officers. The complaint alleges various breaches of
purported fiduciary duties by the defendants, seeks recharacterization or
equitable subordination of debt, seeks recovery of alleged avoidable transfers,
appears to seek to hold them liable for, among other things, the debt of
Broadband Office under alter-ego, veil-piercing and partnership theories, and
seeks other relief under other theories. The complaint seeks aggregate damages
in excess of $300 million from all of the defendants. The Company believes that
it and Mr. Oklak have meritorious defenses to the plaintiff’s allegations and
intends to vigorously defend this litigation. Due to the inherent uncertainties
of the litigation process and the judicial system, the Company is not able to
predict the outcome of this litigation. If this litigation is not resolved in
the Company’s favor, it could have a material adverse effect on its business,
financial condition and results of operations.

Item
4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of
Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2003.

EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Robert M. Chapman,
age 50

. 
Mr. Chapman has served as Senior Executive Vice President, Real Estate
Operations, since November 2003. From 2000 through November 2003, Mr.
Chapman served as the Company’s Executive Vice President, Southern Region,
responsible for the Company’s Atlanta, Orlando, Tampa, Raleigh, Nashville and
Dallas property portfolios. Mr. Chapman was Executive Vice President of
the Atlanta/Texas region from 1999 to 2000, and Executive Vice President of
Acquisitions and Dispositions from 1997 to 1999. Before joining the Company in
1997, he served as Senior Vice President and Portfolio Manager for The RREEF
Funds, and held positions at Gerald Hines Interests and Lincoln Property
Company.

Matthew A. Cohoat,
age 44

. Mr. Cohoat was named Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company on January 1, 2004.
From 1990 through 2003, Mr. Cohoat held various positions in the Company’s
accounting group, most recently that of Senior Vice President and Corporate
Controller. From 1982 until 1990 he was employed by Ernst & Young, LLP.

James B. Conner, age
45.

Mr. Connor has served as Regional Executive
Vice President for the Company’s Chicago Region, which includes its Chicago,
Minneapolis, St. Louis and Nashville portfolios, since December 2003. Mr.
Connor served as Senior Vice President responsible for the Company’s Chicago
Operations since joining the Company in 1998. Prior to joining the Company, Mr.
Connor held several executive and brokerage positions with Cushman &
Wakefield, most recently serving as Senior Managing Director for the Midwest
area.

Howard L. Feinsand,
age 56

.

Mr. Feinsand has served as the Company’s
Executive Vice President and General Counsel since 1999. Mr. Feinsand served on
the Company’s Board of Directors from 1988 to January 2003. From 1996
until 1999, Mr. Feinsand was the founder and principal of Choir Capital Ltd.
From 1995 until 1996, he was Managing Director of Citicorp North America,
Inc.  He was the Senior Vice President and Manager-Capital Markets,
Pricing and Investor Programs of GE Capital Aviation Services, Inc. from 1989
to 1995. From 1971 through 1989, Mr. Feinsand practiced law in New York City.

Robert D. Fessler,
age 46.

Mr. Fessler has served as Executive Vice
President of the Company’s Atlanta Region, which includes its Atlanta, Raleigh,
Florida and Dallas portfolios since July 2003.  Mr. Fessler was Senior Vice President of Cincinnati Operations
from 2001 to July 2003, led the Cincinnati Industrial Group from 1988
through 2001 and was a leasing representative from 1987 to 1988.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Fessler
worked for the Trammell Crow Company and General Electric Company.


John W. Guinee III,
age 48

. Mr. Guinee has served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Investment Officer of the Company since February 2003.
From 1997 through 2001, Mr. Guinee was Executive Vice President and the Chief
Investment Officer of Charles E. Smith Residential Realty. From 1985 through
1997, he was Managing Director of LaSalle Advisors (Alex. Brown Kleinwort
Benson prior to a merger). From 1982 through 1985, Mr. Guinee was a development
manager with Gerald D. Hines Interests in San Francisco.

Thomas L. Hefner,
age 57

. 
Mr. Hefner has served as Chief Executive Officer of the Company since
1993 and as its Chairman since 1998. Mr. Hefner has served as a Director of the
Company since 1993.

Steven R. Kennedy,
age


. Mr. Kennedy was named Executive Vice
President, Construction on January 1, 2004. From 1986 until 2004, he
served the Company in various capacities in the construction group, most
recently as Senior Vice President. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Kennedy
was employed as a project manager for Charles Pankow Builders, Inc., a West
Coast-based design-build and general contractor.

Dennis D. Oklak, age

.  Mr.
Oklak was named President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in
January 2003. He had been Co-Chief Operating Officer of the Company since
April 2002. Mr. Oklak joined the Company in 1986 as Tax Manager and was
later named Controller of the Company’s development companies before being
named Vice President and Treasurer. In that position, he served as the Chief
Accounting Officer with responsibility for financial reporting in public
offerings of securities; assisting the vice presidents of each business unit
with deal structuring; and supervising all financial aspects of the Company.
Mr. Oklak assumed the position of Executive Vice President and Chief
Administrative Officer in 1997 and supervised accounting, tax, information
technology, human resources and tenant services.

Christopher L.
Seger, age 36.

Mr. Seger was appointed Executive
Vice President, National Development/Construction in December 2003. From
2001 to 2003, Mr. Seger was Senior Vice President of the Company’s Florida
Group, with responsibility for its office and industrial portfolio in Central
and South Florida.  From 1999 to 2001,
Mr. Seger was Senior Vice President of the Company’s Indiana Office Group; and
from 1993 to 1999 served in the Company’s Acquisitions and Leasing groups.

PART II

Item
5.

Market for the Registrant’s Common
Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

The Company’s common shares are listed for trading on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol “DRE.” The following table sets forth the high
and low sales prices of the common stock for the periods indicated and the
dividend paid per share during each such period.  Comparable cash dividends are expected in the future. As of
February 26, 2004, there were 11,995 record holders of common shares.

On January 28, 2004, the Company declared a quarterly cash
dividend of $.46 per share, payable on February 27, 2004, to common
shareholders of record on February 12, 2004.


A summary of the tax characterization of the dividends paid per common
share for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 follows:

Item
6.

Selected Consolidated Financial Data

The following sets forth selected consolidated financial and operating
information on a historical basis for the Company for each of the years in the
five-year period ended December 31, 2003. The following information should
be read in conjunction with Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K (in thousands,
except per share amounts):

(1) Funds From Operations (“FFO”) is used by industry analysts and
investors as a supplemental operating 
performance measure of an equity real estate investment trust (“REIT”).
FFO is calculated in accordance with the definition that was adopted by the
Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
(“NAREIT”). FFO, as defined by NAREIT, represents net income (loss) determined
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States (“GAAP”), excluding extraordinary items as defined under GAAP and gains
or losses from sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets,
plus certain non-cash items such as real estate asset depreciation and
amortization, and after adjustment for unconsolidated partnerships and joint
ventures.

Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with
GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminished
predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen
or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have
considered the presentation of


operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost
accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Thus, NAREIT created FFO as a
supplemental measure of REIT operating performance that excludes historical
cost depreciation, among other items, from GAAP net income. Management believes
that the use of FFO, combined with the required primary GAAP presentations, has
improved the understanding of operating results of REITs among the investing
public and made comparisons of REIT operating results more meaningful.
Management considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing comparative
operating and financial performance (although FFO should be reviewed in
conjunction with net income which remains the primary measure of performance)
because by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated
operating real estate assets and excluding real estate asset depreciation and
amortization, FFO assists in comparing the operating performance of a company’s
real estate between periods or as compared to different companies.

Item
7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Cautionary Statement
Regarding Forward Looking Statements

Certain statements in this Annual Report, including those related to
the Company’s future operations, constitute “forward-looking statements” within
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These
forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
other important factors that could cause the actual results, performance or
achievements of the Company, or industry results, to differ materially from any
predictions of future results, performance or achievements that we express or
imply in this report. Some of the risks, uncertainties and other important
factors that may affect future results include, among others:

•

General economic and
business conditions;

•

The Company’s continued
qualification as a real estate investment trust;

•

Competition for tenants and
decrease in property occupancy;

•

Potential increases in real
estate construction costs;

•

Potential changes in
interest rates;

•

Continuing ability to
favorably raise debt and equity in the capital markets; and

•

Other risks inherent in the
real estate business including tenant defaults, potential liability relating to
environmental matters and liquidity of real estate investments.

This list of risks and uncertainties, however, is not intended to be
exhaustive. The Company has on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) a Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 24, 2003, with additional
risk factor information.

The words “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “anticipate” and similar
expressions or statements regarding future periods are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the plans, expectations
and results expressed in or suggested by our forward-looking statements are
reasonable, all forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain as they
involve substantial risks and uncertainties beyond the Company’s control. New
factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict the
nature or assess the potential impact of each new factor on the Company’s
business. Given these uncertainties, we caution you not to place undue reliance
on these forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to
update or revise any of its forward-looking statements for events or
circumstances that arise after the statement is made.

Business Overview

The Company is a self-administered and self managed real estate
investment trust that began operations through a related entity in 1972. As of
December 31, 2003, the Company:

•

Owned or jointly controlled
899 industrial, office and retail properties (including properties under
development), consisting of over 109.0 million square feet primarily located in
10 states; and

•

Owned or jointly controlled
approximately 3,800 acres of land with an estimated future development
potential of more than 60.0 million square feet of industrial, office and
retail properties.


The Company provides the following services for its properties and for
certain properties owned by third parties:

•

leasing;

•

management;

•

construction;

•

development; and

•

other tenant-related
services.

The Company’s operating results depend primarily upon rental income
from its office, industrial and retail properties (“Rental Operations”). The
following highlights the areas of Rental Operations that the Company considers
critical for future revenue growth (all square footage totals and occupancy
percentages reflect both wholly-owned properties and properties in joint
ventures):

Same Property
Performance:

The Company tracks same property
performance, which measures the performance of properties that were in-service
for all reported portions of a two-year period by comparing the results of the
second year with the results of the first year. In 2003, net operating income
from the same property portfolio decreased by 3.5% from 2002, compared to .3%
growth in 2002 over 2001. The current year decline is a result of a decrease of
$8.8 million in same property lease termination fees compared to 2002. In
addition to the decrease in lease termination fees, the Company increased the
use of free rent concessions in 2003 as an incentive to attract quality
tenants.

Occupancy Analysis:

The ability to maintain occupancy rates is a principal driver of the Company’s
results of operations. The following table sets forth information regarding the
Company’s in-service portfolio of rental properties as of December 31,
2003 and 2002 (square feet in thousands):

The overall increase in occupancy for 2003 was the result of increased
activity primarily in the bulk industrial product, fewer lease terminations
through lease buyouts and fewer tenant bankruptcies. An improving economy
coupled with increased business spending and aggressive leasing led to the overall
occupancy increase. The current year decrease in Service Centers’ occupancy was
mainly the result of a tenant terminating 241,000 square feet through a lease
buyout in December 2003 in exchange for a termination payment of $3.0
million.

Lease Expiration and
Renewals:

The Company’s ability to maintain and
grow its occupancy rates primarily depends upon its continuing ability to
re-lease expiring space. The following table reflects the Company’s in-service
lease expiration schedule as of December 31, 2003, by product type.
The table indicates square footage and annualized net effective rents (based on
December 2003 rental revenue) under expiring leases (in thousands):


The Company renewed 72.3% of its leases up for renewal in 2003,
totaling 8.1 million square feet on which it attained a 1.4% growth in net
effective rents. The relatively flat growth in rental rates is indicative of
excess vacancies in many of the Company’s markets requiring competitive pricing
strategies to retain current tenants.

The average term of renewals decreased to 3.5 years in 2003, from 4.4
years in 2002. The Company is currently renewing tenants for shorter terms in
anticipation of better market rates for future renewal periods.

The Company’s lease renewal percentages over the past three years have
remained relatively consistent at a 70-75% success rate despite the relatively
weak market conditions. The Company does not currently expect its renewal
percentage in 2004 to significantly differ from that experienced in 2003.

Future Development:

Another source of growth in earnings for the Company is the development of
additional rental properties. The Company had approximately 2.8 million square
feet of properties under development at December 31, 2003 with total
projected costs of approximately $160.3 million. The total projected costs of
properties under development at December 31, 2002 was $195.0 million. The
lower volume reflects the relative slowdown in business expansion in response
to the overall weakened economy, and the Company’s plan to limit the
development of speculative properties until activity increases.

The properties under development are expected to provide future Rental
Operations growth as they are placed in service or, for those properties that
are being developed for sale, earnings through Service Operations upon their
eventual sale. A summary of the properties under development as of
December 31, 2003, follows (in thousands, except percent leased and
stabilized returns):

Acquisition
and Disposition Activity:

The Company has an active capital recycling program based upon a strategy
to dispose of non-strategic assets and utilize the proceeds to fund new
development and acquisitions of more desirable properties. Through this
program, the Company is continually improving the overall quality of


its investment portfolio. During 2000 and
2001, the Company disposed of over $1 billion of properties, which generated
substantially greater proceeds than were required to fund new development and
acquisitions. The excess proceeds were utilized to pay down Company debt, which
has reduced the Company’s debt-to-total market capitalization ratio to a
conservative 30.8% at December 31, 2003.

Dispositions of held-for-rental properties
slowed in 2003 and 2002, totaling $126 million and $41 million, respectively,
as the slower business climate limited reinvestment opportunities. The
disposition proceeds were used to partially fund 2003 and 2002 acquisitions of
$232 million and $114 million, respectively. The Company will continue to
pursue both disposition and acquisition opportunities that arise in 2004. While
management expects the volume of acquisitions to exceed dispositions,
management cannot predict when or if these opportunities will arise.

Funds From Operations

Funds From Operations (“FFO”) is used by industry analysts and
investors as a supplemental operating performance measure of an equity real
estate investment trust (“REIT”). FFO is calculated in accordance with the
definition that was adopted by the Board of Governors of the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”). FFO, as defined by
NAREIT, represents net income (loss) determined in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”),
excluding extraordinary items as defined under GAAP and gains or losses from
sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets, plus certain
non-cash items such as real estate asset depreciation and amortization, and
after adjustment for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with
GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes
predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen
or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have
considered the presentation of operating results for real estate companies that
use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Thus, NAREIT created
FFO as a supplemental measure of REIT operating performance that excludes
historical cost depreciation, among other items, from GAAP net income.
Management believes that the use of FFO, combined with the required primary
GAAP presentations, has improved the understanding of operating results of
REITs among the investing public and made comparisons of REIT operating results
more meaningful. Management considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing
comparative operating and financial performance (although FFO should be
reviewed in conjunction with net income which remains the primary measure of
performance) because by excluding gains or losses related to sales of
previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate
asset depreciation and amortization, FFO assists in comparing the operating
performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to
different companies.

The following table summarizes the calculation of FFO for the years
ended December 31 (in thousands):

Funds From Operations for 2002 and 2001 have
been restated to include the effects of

the Company’s adoption of
the SEC’s July 31, 2003 Staff Policy Statement that clarifies the
application of FASB-EITF Topic D-42, “The Effect on the Calculation of Earnings
per Share for the Redemption or Induced Conversion of Preferred Stock.” See
discussion of Restatement of Net Income below. Additionally, the Company has
restated 2002 and 2001 FFO through the adoption of recent guidance from the SEC
requiring the inclusion of impairment adjustments in the calculation of FFO.


Results of Operations

A summary of the Company’s operating results and
property statistics for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2003, follows (in thousands, except number of properties and
per share amounts):

Comparison of Year
Ended December 31, 2003 to Year Ended December 31, 2002

Rental Income from Continuing Operations

Rental income from
continuing operations increased from $670.9 million in 2002 to $706.7 million
in 2003.  The following table reconciles
rental income by reportable segment to the Company’s total reported rental
income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2002 (in thousands):

Although the Company’s three reportable segments comprising Rental
Operations (office, industrial and retail) are all within the real estate
industry, they are not necessarily affected by the same economic and industry
conditions. For example, the Company’s retail segment experienced high
occupancies and strong overall performance during 2003, while the Company’s
office and industrial segments reflected the weaker economic environment for
those property types. The primary causes of the increase in rental income from
continuing operations, with specific references to a particular segment when
applicable, are summarized below:

•

During 2003, in-service
occupancy improved from 87.1% at the end of 2002 to 89.3% at the end of 2003.
The second half of 2003 was highlighted by a significant increase in the
industrial portfolio occupancy of 2.1% along with a slight increase in office
portfolio occupancy of .9%. Increased occupancy continues to be management’s
primary focus for 2004.

•

Lease termination fees
totaled $27.4 million in 2002 compared to $17.2 million in 2003. Most of this
decrease was attributable to the office segment, which recognized  $21.1 million of termination fees in 2002 as
compared to $11.8 million in 2003. Lease termination fees relate to specific
tenants that pay a fee to terminate their lease obligations before the end of
the contractual lease term. The high volume of termination fees in 2002 was
reflective of the contraction of the business of large office users during that
year and their desire to downsize their use of office space. The decrease in
termination fees for 2003 was indicative of an improving economy and a more
stable financial position of the Company’s tenants. Although there is no way to
predict the amount of future lease termination fees, management believes that
the amount of these fees will continue to decline in 2004.


•

During the year ended 2003,
the Company acquired $232 million of properties totaling 2.1 million square
feet. The acquisitions were primarily Class A office buildings in existing
markets with overall occupancy near 90%. Revenues associated with these
acquisitions totaled $10.2 million in 2003. In addition, revenues from 2002
acquisitions totaled $15.8 million in 2003 compared to $4.8 million in 2002.
This significant increase is primarily due to a large office acquisition that
closed at the end of December 2002.

•

Developments placed
in-service in 2003 provided revenues of $6.6 million, while revenues associated
with developments placed in-service in 2002 totaled $13.7 million in 2003
compared to $4.7 million in 2002.

•

Proceeds from dispositions
of held for rental properties totaled $126.1 million in 2003, compared to $40.9
million in 2002. These properties generated revenue of $12.5 million in 2003
versus $19.6 million in 2002.

Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Companies

Equity in earnings represents the Company’s ownership share of net
income from investments in unconsolidated companies. These joint ventures
generally own and operate rental properties and hold land for development.
These earnings decreased from $27.2 million in 2002 to $23.6 million in 2003.
This decrease is a result of the following significant activity:

•

In 2002, a $1.8 million gain
was recognized on a property that was developed and sold upon completion to a
third party.

•

In 2003, the Company’s total
investment in joint ventures decreased. This decrease was the result of the
Company acquiring its partner’s interest in three joint ventures, selling its
interest in two and one venture being dissolved in the current year. While the
number of joint ventures decreased, the joint ventures’ occupancy increased
from 93.2% to 94.0% in 2003.

Rental Expenses and Real Estate Taxes

The following table reconciles rental expenses and real estate taxes by
reportable segment to the Company’s total reported amounts in the statement of
operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 (in 000’s):

The increased rental and real estate tax expenses for
2003, as compared to 2002, was the result of the Company’s increase in average
in-service square feet and occupancy. These increases resulted from the
Company’s acquisition activities and developments placed in service in 2003.

Interest Expense

The Company’s interest expense increased from $114.7 million in 2002 to
$129.1 million in 2003.  Although the
Company benefited from significantly lower interest rates during the year,
interest expense increased because of increased borrowings during the year and
a decrease in the amount of interest that was capitalized. The increased
borrowings reflected the funding of the Company’s developments during the year
and the excess of properties acquired over those disposed. Interest capitalized
for 2003 was significantly lower than 2002 as development activity for 2003 was
substantially slower than prior years. Development starts for 2003 totaled only
$108 million compared to approximately $225 million for 2002. Other significant
factors impacting interest expense for 2003 are summarized as follows (in
thousands):


•

The Company continued to
replace secured debt financing with unsecured debt, and paid off over $120
million of secured loans throughout 2003. The payoffs included secured loans
due in 2003 and those due in 2004 and beyond for which the Company was able to
take advantage of expired or negotiated lower pre-payment penalties and utilize
lower financing costs from unsecured debt offerings or the unsecured line of
credit.

•

Approximately $425 million
of new unsecured debt was issued in 2003. The Company issued $175 million of
seven-year debt in January 2003 at an effective interest rate of 5.37%,
$150 million of ten-year debt in May 2003 at an effective interest rate of
4.64% and $100 million of four-year debt in November 2003 at an effective
interest rate of 3.63%. The Company retired $175 million of debt in
June 2003 that had an effective interest rate of 7.33%.

•

The Company utilized its
$500 million unsecured line of credit more heavily in 2003 than it did during
2002 in order to take advantage of the historically low borrowing costs. The
balance on the line of credit was $351 million at December 31, 2003 compared
to $281 million at December 31, 2002.

Depreciation and Amortization Expense

Depreciation and amortization expense for 2003 increased by over $22.5
million compared to 2002 because of an increase in tenant improvements and
leasing costs. As discussed earlier, the Company experienced higher overall
occupancy and more acquisition activity in 2003, which resulted in increased
capital expenditures for tenant improvements and deferred lease commissions as
well as increases in held for investment property basis. The following
highlights the significant changes in depreciable and amortizable property
during 2003:

•

The basis of the held for
investment property portfolio increased by $166 million as a result of the
Company’s development and acquisition activity.

•

The Company incurred tenant
improvement costs of $91.3 million in 2003.

•

The Company incurred lease
commissions of $41.6 million in 2003.

Also contributing to the increased expense in 2003 was the effect of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141,

Business Combinations

(“SFAS 141”), on acquisitions. This
accounting pronouncement requires the allocation of a portion of a property’s
purchase price to intangible assets for leases acquired and in-place at the
closing date of the acquisition. These intangible assets are amortized over the
remaining life of the leases (generally 3-5 years) as compared to the building
basis portion of the acquisition, which is depreciated over 40 years. The
amortization associated with the acquired lease intangible assets recorded on
2003 acquisitions totaled $4.2 million.

Service Operations

Service Operations primarily consist of leasing, management,
construction and development services for joint venture properties and
properties owned by third parties. These operations are heavily influenced by
the current state of the economy as leasing and management fees are dependent
upon occupancy while construction and development services rely on businesses
expanding operations. The following highlights the significant components of
revenues in Service Operations:

•

The Company experienced more
than a 2% decrease in its overall gross profit margin percentage in its general
contractor business in 2003 because of more competitive pricing in many of its
markets.  However, despite this
decrease, the Company was able to increase its net general contractor revenues
from $21.9 million in 2002 to $26.8 million in 2003 because of a significant
increase in volume. This volume increase was attributable to the low cost of
financing available to businesses, thereby making it more attractive for them
to own instead of lease facilities. The Company has a substantial backlog of
$175.6 million for third party work as of December 31, 2003 that will
carry into 2004.

•

Property management,
maintenance and leasing fee revenues have remained fairly constant between 2002
and 2003 as the number of properties managed by the Company has not changed
significantly.

•

Construction management and
development activity income represents construction and development fees earned
on projects where the Company acts as the construction manager along with
profits from the Company’s held-for-sale program under which the Company
develops a


property with the intent to sell upon completion. The decrease in
revenues from $29.4 million in 2002 to $15.5 million in 2003 is primarily due
to fewer properties being sold in 2003 from the held-for-sale program. During
2002, the Company sold eight held-for-sale properties for a pre-tax gain of
$28.2 million compared to the sale of four properties in 2003 for a pre-tax
gain of $15.4 million in 2003. Profit margins on held-for-sale transactions
fluctuate by sale depending on the type of property being sold, the strength of
the underlying tenant and the nature of the sale, such as a pre-contracted
purchase price for a primary tenant versus a sale on the open market.

Service Operations expenses decreased from $38.3 million in 2002 to
$37.6 million in 2003.  Included in
these amounts are income taxes which decreased to $5.7 million in 2003 from
$8.4 million in 2002 primarily as a result of lower income from the disposition
of held-for-sale properties. Other Service Operations expenses increased by
approximately $2.0 million in 2003 over 2002. This increase was driven
primarily from the costs associated with increased third party construction
volume.

General and Administrative Expense

General and administrative expense decreased from $25.3 million in 2002
to $22.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease is
primarily attributable to an increase in construction volume for third party
projects resulting in a greater allocation of overhead to Service Operations
operating expenses.

Other Income and Expenses

Gain on sale of land and depreciable property dispositions, net of
impairment adjustment, is comprised of the following amounts in 2003 and 2002:

Gain on sales of depreciable properties represent sales of previously
held for investment rental properties which did not qualify to be classified as
discontinued operations under SFAS 144 (see discussion under Discontinued
Operations below). There were no such sales in 2003.

In 2003, the Company sold its interests in two joint ventures that
owned and operated depreciable investment property. The Company owned 50% of
each of these joint ventures.

Gain on land sales represents sales of undeveloped land owned by the
Company. The Company pursues opportunities to dispose of land in markets with a
high concentration of undeveloped land and those markets where the land no
longer meets strategic development plans of the Company.

The Company recorded $560,000 of impairment charges on three land
parcels that were sold in 2003. The Company has analyzed each of its in-service
properties and has determined that there are no additional valuation
adjustments that need to be made as of December 31, 2003. The $6.6 million
adjustment recorded in 2002 was associated with four properties determined to
be impaired.

Other revenue and expenses is comprised primarily of the write-off of
contract development costs for abandoned development projects and gains on
terminations of interest rate swaps. In 2003, the Company recorded contract
development expenses of $1.0 million compared to $1.2 million in 2002. The
Company accumulates costs of potential projects as an asset until such time as
the costs are capitalized into a new project or expensed for a failed project.

In 2003, the Company terminated four forward
starting interest rate swap agreements for a net gain of $643,000. The swap
agreements were entered into as hedges for future anticipated debt issuances.
These agreements were terminated as a result of the Company’s capital needs
being met through the issuance of the Series J Preferred Stock in lieu of the
contemplated debt issuances. In 2002, a $1.4 million gain was recognized in
connection with a swap that did not qualify for hedge accounting. The Company
has no swaps or other derivative instruments outstanding at December 31,
2003. See discussion of the Company’s use of derivative instruments in the
footnotes to the financial statements.


Discontinued Operations

The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets

(“SFAS 144”), on January 1, 2002. SFAS 144
requires the Company to report in discontinued operations the results of
operations of a property that has either been disposed or is classified as
held-for-sale, unless certain conditions are met.

At December 31, 2003, the Company classified the results of
operations and gains or losses of 45 buildings as discontinued operations. Of
these buildings, 2 were sold in 2002 and 42 were sold in 2003. Impairment
charges of $500,000 were recognized in 2003 relating to a single property that
was sold in 2003. As a result of the sale, these charges were classified in
discontinued operations for 2003. One property is owned at December 31,
2003, and is under contract to sell in 2004. Impairment charges totaling $2.7
million that were recognized in 2002 have been reclassed to discontinued
operations as the properties to which they pertain were sold in 2003. Beginning
in 2002, results of operations and any gains or losses on all sales of
depreciable properties are classified in discontinued operations.

Comparison of Year
Ended December 31, 2002 to Year Ended December 31, 2001

Rental Income from Continuing Operations

Rental income from continuing operations increased from $669.6 million
in 2001 to $670.9 million in 2002.  The
following table reconciles rental income by reportable segment to the Company’s
total reported rental income from continuing operations for the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001 (in thousands):

The following significant fluctuations are the primary causes of the
increase in rental income from continuing operations for all three segments,
with specific references to a particular segment when applicable:

•

Throughout 2002, in-service
occupancy decreased from 88.6% at the end of 2001 to 87.1% at the end of
2002.  The decline was the result of the weakened economy and its
effect on business in the Company’s markets. These markets experienced a
shortage of demand compared to the supply of office and industrial space
resulting from downsizing of leased space for existing tenants, the lack of new
business growth, and the tendency of existing businesses to hold off on growth
plans until the economy improves.

•

Lease termination fees
totaled $27.4 million in 2002 compared to $17.9 million in 2001. In 2002, there
were significant individual termination fees received, particularly in the
office portfolio, where $21.1 million of termination fees were recognized
compared to $12.1 million in 2001. This trend was consistent with the
continuing decline in occupancy for office space in many of the Company’s
markets.

•

In August of 2001, the
Company sold 21 properties or approximately 75% of its retail portfolio. As a
result of this sale, the Company had eight months of operations associated with
these properties in 2001.

Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Companies

Equity in earnings decreased from $31.4 million in 2001 to $27.2
million for 2002 as a result of the following:

•

The Company’s share of lease
termination fees for 2001 was approximately $2.1 million, compared to
approximately $658,000 in 2002.

•

During 2002, a 50% joint venture
had increased interest expense of approximately $900,000 as a result of $71.0
million in debt issued during the second quarter of 2001.


Rental Expenses and Real Estate Taxes

The following table reconciles rental expenses and real estate taxes by
reportable segment to the Company’s total reported amounts in the statement of
operations for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 (in 000’s):

The Company’s three reportable segments comprising Rental Operations
(office, industrial and retail) are all within the real estate industry. The
increased rental and real estate tax expense were the result of the Company’s
increased real estate assets associated with current year developments and
acquisitions.

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended
December 31, 2002, increased over the prior year through an increase in the
Company’s building asset basis, increased investments in tenant improvements
and the expensing of undepreciated tenant improvements associated with the
early terminations of tenants.

Interest Expense

The $5.2 million increase in interest expense is attributable to the
following:

•

Interest capitalized on
development projects decreased from $25.9 million in 2001 to $13.5 million in
2002 because of decreased development activity by the Company in response to
soft demand in most of the Company’s markets.

•

Interest expense on
corporate unsecured debt increased from $98.7 million in 2001 to $100.8 million
in 2002. The Company issued $150 million of ten-year unsecured debt in
August 2002 at an effective interest rate of 5.88% and $50 million of
ten-year unsecured debt in September 2002 at an effective interest rate of
5.45%. Also in 2002, the Company paid off $50 million of debt that matured in
September, which had an effective rate of 7.31%.

•

Interest expense on the
Company’s secured debt decreased from $30.8 million in 2001 to $22.9 million in
2002 as the Company paid off $13.5 million of secured debt throughout 2002 and
experienced lower borrowings on its secured line of credit during 2002 compared
to 2001.  Additionally, the Company paid
off approximately $128.5 million of secured debt throughout 2001.

•

Interest expense on the
Company’s $500 million unsecured line of credit decreased by approximately $1.1
million in 2002 compared to 2001 as the Company maintained lower balances on
the line throughout most of 2002.

Service Operations

Service Operations primarily consist of leasing, management,
construction and development services for joint venture properties and
properties owned by third parties. Service Operations revenues decreased from
$80.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, to $68.6 million for
the year ended December 31, 2002. The prolonged effect of the slow economy
has been the primary factor in the overall decrease in revenues. The Company
experienced a decrease of $12.7 million in net general contractor revenues
because of a decrease in the volume of construction in 2002, compared to 2001,
as well as slightly lower profit margins.

Property management, maintenance and leasing fee revenues decreased
from $22.8 million in 2001 to $14.3 million in 2002 primarily because of a
decrease in landscaping maintenance revenue resulting from the sale of the
landscaping operations in the third quarter of 2001.


Construction management and development activity income represents
construction and development fees earned on projects where the Company acts as
the construction manager along with profits from the Company’s held-for-sale
program under which the Company develops a property for sale upon completion.
The increase in revenues of $10.3 million in 2002 is primarily due to an
increase in volume of the sale of properties from the held-for-sale program.

Service Operations expenses decreased from $45.3 million in 2001 to
$38.3 million in 2002. The decrease was attributable to the decrease in
construction and development activity and the reduced overhead costs as a
result of the sale of the landscape business in 2001.

General and Administrative Expense

General and Administrative Expense increased from $15.5 million in 2001
to $25.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The Company was
successful in reducing total operating and administration costs; however,
reduced construction and development activities resulted in a greater amount of
overhead being charged to general and administrative expense instead of being
capitalized into development projects or charged to Service Operations.

Other Income and Expenses

Gain on sale of land and depreciable property dispositions, net of
impairment adjustment, was comprised of the following amounts in 2002 and 2001:

Gain on sales of depreciable properties represent sales of previously
held for investment rental properties. Beginning in 2000 and continuing into
2001, the Company pursued favorable opportunities to dispose of real estate
assets that no longer met long-term investment objectives. In 2002, the Company
significantly reduced the amount of its property sales.

Gain on land sales represents sales of undeveloped land owned by the
Company. The Company pursues opportunities to dispose of land in markets with a
high concentration of undeveloped land and those markets where the land no
longer meets strategic development plans of the Company.

Other revenue for the year ended December 31, 2002, includes $1.4
million of gain related to an interest rate swap that did not qualify for hedge
accounting.

Restatement of Net Income

In July of 2003, the SEC issued a Staff Policy Statement that
clarified the application of FASB-EITF Topic D-42 (Topic D-42), “The Effect on
the Calculation of Earnings per Share for the Redemption or Induced Conversion
of Preferred Stock.” Under Topic D-42, the difference between the amounts paid
to the holders of preferred stock upon redemption and the carrying amount of
the preferred stock on the issuer’s balance sheet must be subtracted from net
income when computing earnings per share. The Staff Policy Statement clarified
that, in computing the reduction in net income, the carrying amount of the
preferred stock should be reduced by the issuance costs of the preferred stock.
As a result of this clarification, the Company’s net income per share was
restated for 2002 and 2001. The impact of this restatement is summarized as
follows:


Critical Accounting
Policies

The preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP)
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reported period. The Company’s estimates, judgments and
assumptions are continually evaluated based upon available information and
experience. Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes further
discussion of the Company’s significant accounting policies.

The Company’s management has assessed the accounting policies used in
the preparation of its financial statements and discussed them with the
Company’s Audit Committee and independent auditors. The following accounting
policies are considered critical based upon materiality to the financial
statements, degree of judgment involved in estimating reported amounts and
sensitivity to changes in industry and economic conditions:

Accounting for Joint Ventures:

The
Company has equity interests ranging from 10-95% in joint ventures that own and
operate rental properties and hold land for development. The Company
consolidates those joint ventures that it controls through majority ownership
interests or substantial participating rights. Control is further demonstrated
by the ability of the general partner to manage day-to-day operations,
refinance debt and sell the assets of the joint venture without the consent of
the limited partner and inability of the limited partner to replace the general
partner. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for those joint
ventures where the Company does not have control over operating and financial
polices. Under the equity method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of
joint ventures for which the Company uses the equity method are not included on
the Company’s balance sheet.

Cost Capitalization:

Direct and certain indirect costs, including interest, clearly associated with
the development, construction, leasing or expansion of real estate investments
are capitalized as a cost of the property. The following discusses the
significant categories of costs incurred by the Company:

Within the Rental Operations of the Company, direct and indirect costs
are capitalized under the guidelines of SFAS 67,

Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate
Projects (“SFAS 67”),

and interest costs are capitalized under the
guidelines of SFAS 34, “

Capitalization of
Interest Cost

” (“SFAS 34”). The Company capitalizes these project
costs associated with the initial construction of a property up to the time the
property is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. The Company
believes the completion of the building shell is the proper basis for
determining substantial completion and that this basis is the most widely
accepted standard in the real estate industry. The interest rate used to
capitalize costs is based upon the Company’s average borrowing rate on existing
debt.

In addition, the Company capitalizes costs, including interest costs,
on vacant space during extended lease-up periods after construction of the
building shell has been completed if costs are being incurred to ready the
vacant space for its intended use. If costs and activities incurred to ready
the vacant space cease, then cost capitalization is also discontinued until
such activities are resumed. Once necessary work has been completed on a vacant
space, project costs are no longer capitalized. The Company ceases
capitalization of all project costs on extended lease-up periods after the
shorter of a one-year period after the completion of the building shell or when
the property attains a 90% occupancy. The Company follows guidelines in SFAS 34
and SFAS 67 in determining the capitalization of project costs during the
lease-up period of a property and believes that this treatment is consistent
with real estate industry standards for project cost capitalization.

All direct construction and development costs associated with the
development of a new property are capitalized. In addition, all leasing
commissions paid to third parties for new leases or lease renewals are
capitalized. A portion of the Company’s indirect costs associated with its
construction/ development and leasing efforts are capitalized. In assessing the
amount of indirect costs to be capitalized, the Company first allocates payroll
costs, on a department-by-department basis, among activities for which
capitalization is warranted (i.e., construction, development and leasing) and
those for which capitalization is not warranted


(e.g., property management, maintenance, acquisitions and dispositions
and general corporate functions). To the extent the employees of a department
split their time between capitalizable and non-capitalizable activities, the
allocations are made based on estimates of the actual amount of time spent in
each activity. Once the payroll costs are allocated, the non-payroll costs of
each department are allocated among the capitalizable and non-capitalizable
activities in the same proportion as payroll costs. The capitalized cost pool
does not include any costs allocable to its executive officers.

To ensure that an appropriate amount of costs are capitalized, the
amount of capitalized costs that are allocated to a specific project are
limited to amounts using standards developed by the Company. These standards
consist of a percentage of the total development costs of a project and a
percentage of the total gross lease amount payable under a specific lease.
These standards are derived after considering both the amount of costs that
would need to be paid by the Company if the services were performed by third
parties, and the amounts that would be allocated if the personnel in the
departments were working at full capacity. The use of these standards ensures
that overhead costs attributable to downtime or to unsuccessful projects or
leasing activities are not capitalized by the Company.

Impairment of Real Estate Investments:

The Company evaluates its real estate investments upon occurrence of
significant changes in the operations, but not less than annually, to assess
whether any impairment indications are present that affect the recovery of the
recorded value. If any real estate investment is considered impaired, a loss is
provided to reduce the carrying value of the asset to its estimated fair value.
The Company utilizes the guidelines established under SFAS 144 to determine if
impairment conditions exist. Under SFAS 144, the Company reviews the expected
undiscounted cash flows of each property in its held for rental portfolio to
determine if there are any indications of impairment of a property. The review
of anticipated cash flows involves subjective assumptions of estimated
occupancy and rental rates and ultimate residual value. In addition to
reviewing anticipated cash flows, the Company assesses other factors such as
changes in business climate and legal factors that may affect the ultimate
value of the property. These assumptions are subjective and the anticipated
cash flows may not ultimately be achieved.

Real estate assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of their
carrying value amount or the fair value less estimated cost to sell.

Acquisition of Real Estate Property.

The
Company treats each material property acquisition as a “business” within the
scope of SFAS 141. In accordance with that statement, the Company allocates the
purchase price of acquired properties to net tangible and identified intangible
assets based on their respective fair value.

The allocation to tangible assets (building and land) is based upon
management’s determination of the value of the property as if it were vacant
using discounted cash flow models similar to those used by independent
appraisers. Factors considered by management include an estimate of carrying
costs during the expected lease-up periods considering current market
conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. The remaining purchase price
is allocated among three categories of intangible assets consisting of the
above or below market component of in–place leases, the value of in-place
leases and the value of customer relationships.

•

The value allocable to the
above or below market component of an acquired in-place lease is determined
based upon the present value (using an interest rate which reflects the risks
associated with the lease) of the difference between (i) the contractual
amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining term, and (ii)
management’s estimate of the amounts that would be paid using current fair
market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated to
above or below market leases are included in deferred leasing and other costs
in the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income over the remaining
terms of the respective leases.

•

The total amount of
intangible assets is further allocated to in-place lease values and to customer
relationship values, based upon management’s assessment of their respective
values. These intangible assets are included in deferred leasing and other
costs in the balance sheet and are depreciated over the remaining term of the
existing lease, or the anticipated life of the customer relationship, as
applicable.


Valuation of Receivables:

The Company is subject to tenant defaults and bankruptcies that could affect
the collection of outstanding receivables. In order to mitigate these risks,
the Company performs in-house credit

review and analysis on major existing tenants and all significant
leases before they are executed. The Company has established the following
procedures and policies to evaluate the collectibility of outstanding receivables
and record allowances:

•

The Company maintains a
tenant “watch list” containing a list of significant tenants for which the
payment of receivables and future rent may be at risk. Various factors such as
late rent payments, lease or debt instrument defaults, and indications of a
deteriorating financial position are considered when determining whether to
include a tenant on the watch list.

•

As a matter of policy, the
Company reserves the entire receivable balance, including straight-line rent,
of any tenant with an amount outstanding over 90 days.

•

Straight-line rent
receivables for any tenant on the watch list or any other tenant identified as
a potential long-term risk, regardless of the status of rent receivables, are
reviewed and reserved as necessary. In addition, a general reserve for
straight-line rent receivables is provided in an amount equal to 1% to 2% of
the outstanding balance.

Revenue Recognition on Construction
Contracts:

The Company recognizes income on
construction contracts where the Company serves as a general contractor on the
percentage of completion method. Using this method, profits are recorded on the
basis of the Company’s estimates of the overall profit and percentage of
completion of individual contracts. A portion of the estimated profits is
accrued based upon the Company’s estimates of the percentage of completion of
the construction contract. Cumulative revenues recognized may be less or
greater than cumulative costs and profits billed at any point in time during a
contract’s term. This revenue recognition method involves inherent risks
relating to profit and cost estimates with those risks reduced through approval
and monitoring processes.

With regards to critical accounting policies, management has discussed
the following with the Audit Committee:

•

Criteria for identifying and
selecting;

•

Methodology in applying; and

•

Impact on the financial
statements.

The Audit Committee has reviewed the critical accounting policies
identified by the Company.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Sources of Liquidity

The Company expects to meet its liquidity requirements over the next
twelve months, including payments of dividends and distributions as well as
recurring capital expenditures relating to maintaining the Company’s current real
estate assets, primarily through the following:

•

working capital; and

•

net cash provided by
operating activities

Although the Company historically has not used any other sources of
funds to pay for recurring capital expenditures on its current real estate
investments, the use of borrowings or property disposition proceeds may be
needed to fund such expenditures during periods of high leasing volume. This
situation could arise in 2004 if the Company experiences a significant increase
in its occupancy.

The Company expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such
as scheduled mortgage debt maturities, preferred stock redemptions, the
retirement of unsecured notes and amounts outstanding under the unsecured
credit facility, property acquisitions, financing of development activities and
other non-recurring capital improvements, primarily from the following sources:


•

issuance of additional
unsecured notes;

•

issuance of additional
preferred stock;

•

undistributed cash provided
by operating activities, if any; and

•

proceeds received from real
estate dispositions.

Rental Operations

The Company believes that its principal source of liquidity, cash flows
from Rental Operations, provides a stable source of cash to fund operational
expenses. The Company believes that this cash-based revenue stream is
substantially aligned with revenue recognition (except for periodic
straight-line rental income accruals) as cash receipts from the leasing of rental
properties are generally received in advance of or in a short time following
the actual revenue recognition. The Company is subject to risks of decreased
occupancy through market conditions as well as tenant defaults and
bankruptcies, and potential reduction in rental rates upon renewal or
re-letting of properties, which would result in reduced cash flow from
operations. However, management believes that these risks are mitigated by the
Company’s strong market presence in most of its locations and the fact that the
Company performs in-house credit review and analysis on major tenants and all
significant leases before they are executed.

Credit Facilities

The Company had the following line of credit available (in thousands):

Description

Borrowing

Capacity

Maturity

Date

Interest

Rate

Amount

Outstanding

at December

31, 2003

Unsecured Line of Credit

$

500,000

February 2004

LIBOR + .65

%

$

351,000

The line of credit is used to fund development activities to acquire
additional rental properties and to provide working capital.

In January 2004, the Company renewed the unsecured line of credit,
extending the maturity date to January 2007 and lowering the interest rate
from LIBOR + .65% to LIBOR + .60%.

The line of credit contains financial covenants that require the
Company to meet defined levels of performance. 
As of December 31, 2003, the Company is in compliance with all such
covenants and expects to remain in compliance for the foreseeable future.

Debt and Equity Securities

The Company currently has on file with the SEC an effective shelf
registration statement that permits the Company to sell up to an additional
$670 million of unsecured debt securities as of December 31, 2003.  In addition, the Company has on file with
the SEC an effective shelf registration statement that permits the Company to
sell up to an additional $400.7 million of common and preferred stock as of
December 31, 2003. From time-to-time, the Company expects to issue
additional securities under these registration statements to fund development
and acquisition of additional rental properties and to fund the repayment of
the credit facilities and other long-term debt upon maturity.

The indenture governing the Company’s unsecured notes also requires the
Company to comply with financial ratios and other covenants regarding the
operations of the Company. The Company is currently in compliance with all such
covenants and expects to remain in compliance for the foreseeable future.

In January 2004, the Company completed a $125 million unsecured
debt offering at an effective interest rate of 3.4%, due January 2008.

Sale of Real Estate Assets

The Company utilizes sales of real estate assets as an additional
source of liquidity. During 2000 and 2001, the Company engaged in a
capital-recycling program that resulted in sales of over $1 billion of real
estate assets.  In

2002 and 2003, volume was substantially reduced as capital needs were
met through other sources and the


slower business climate provided fewer opportunities to profitably
reinvest sale proceeds. The Company continues to pursue opportunities to sell
real estate assets when beneficial to the long-term strategy of the Company.

Uses of Liquidity

The Company’s principal uses of liquidity include the following:

•

Property investments;

•

Recurring leasing/capital
costs;

•

Dividends and distributions
to shareholders and unitholders;

•

Long-term debt maturities;
and

•

Other contractual
obligations.

Property Investments

The Company evaluates development and acquisition opportunities based
upon market outlook, supply, and long-term growth potential.

Recurring expenditures

A summary of the Company’s recurring capital expenditures is as follows
for the year ended December 31, 
(in thousands):

Dividends and Distributions

In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the
Company must currently distribute at least 90% of its taxable income to its
shareholders. The Company paid dividends per share of $1.83, $1.81 and $1.76
for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The
Company expects to continue to distribute taxable earnings to meet the
requirements to maintain its REIT status. However, distributions are declared
at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and are subject to actual
cash available for distribution, the Company’s financial condition, capital
requirements and such other factors as the Company’s Board of Directors deems
relevant.

Debt Maturities

Debt outstanding at December 31, 2003, totaled $2.3 billion with a
weighted average interest rate of 5.65% maturing at various dates through 2028.
The Company had $2.1 billion of unsecured debt and $208.6 million of secured
debt outstanding at December 31, 2003. Scheduled principal amortization of
such debt totaled $9.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Following is a summary of the scheduled future amortization and
maturities of the Company’s indebtedness at December 31, 2003, including
the $351 million outstanding on the unsecured line of credit in 2007 maturities
to reflect the January 2004 renewal (in thousands):


Historical Cash Flows

A comparison of the Company’s historical cash flows for 2003, 2002 and
2001 is as follows (in millions):

Operating Activities

Cash flows from operating activities provide the cash necessary to meet
normal, operational requirements.  The
receipt of rental income from Rental Operations continues to provide the
primary source of revenues and operating cash flows for the Company. However,
in 2002, as explained in more detail below, the Company had a large number of
sales of buildings developed with the intent to sell, resulting in a
significant source of operational cash flows and revenues in 2002 compared to
2001 and 2003. While the Company continues to pursue these opportunities,
revenues from rental operations will continue to be the primary source of
revenue of the Company. Management continues to focus on increasing occupancy
as its primary objective for 2004.

•

The Company sold eight
build-for-sale properties in 2002 generating sales proceeds of $196.9 million.
In contrast, four properties were sold in 2003 with gross proceeds of $50.1
million, and eleven properties were sold in 2001 with gross proceeds of $102.2
million.

•

The Company has a backlog of
build-for-sale buildings as of December 31, 2003, with projected project
costs of $65.8 million that it anticipates selling throughout 2004.

Investing Activities

Investing activities are one of the primary uses of the Company’s
liquidity. Development and acquisition activity is necessary to generate
additional rental revenues and provide cash flows for operational requirements.
Highlights of significant cash uses are as follows:

•

Development costs decreased
from $251.4 million in 2001 and $158.1 million in 2002 to $129.2 million in
2003. This trend is reflective of the weakened economy and excess supply over
demand in many of the Company’s markets. New developments, particularly
speculative office, have been limited by management in an effort to focus on
lease-ups of existing properties in most markets.

•

Acquisitions of real estate
have increased significantly since 2001 as the Company continues to view
acquisitions in current markets as sources for growth opportunities.

•

Recurring costs for tenant
improvements, lease commissions and building improvements have also continued
to increase over the past three years in direct relation to the re-leasing of
vacant space. As occupancy fell to a low in 2001, management focused its
attention over the past two years on improving and re-letting its existing
spaces. Towards the latter half of 2003, occupancy improved in the Company’s
in-service portfolio. Management anticipates these costs to remain high in 2004
as occupancy trends upward, but occupancy trends are not predictable.

•

Proceeds from property sales
increased in 2003 over 2002 as the Company again looked to dispose of
non-strategic assets. The Company experienced significant sales in 2000 and
2001 as efforts were made to de-leverage the balance sheet in anticipation of a
slowed economy in 2001 and 2002. This strategy has created a low debt to market
capitalization for the Company as of the end of 2003. Sales of property will
continue to be utilized as part of the Company’s capital recycling program to
fund acquisitions and new development.


Financing Activities

The Company increased its borrowings under both its unsecured line of
credit and in the public debt markets as a source of capital over the past two
years. In order to enhance its flexibility with respect to its properties, the
Company has continued to replace secured debt with unsecured debt. The low
leverage resulting from the large volume of property dispositions in 2000 and
2001 provided the Company with the opportunity to borrow funds at very
attractive rates. Highlights of significant financing activities are as
follows:

•

The Company received $425.0
million in proceeds from unsecured debt offerings in 2003 and repaid $135.5
million of secured debt in accordance with the strategy outlined above. The
Company has obtained very low coupon rates on its newly issued debt and has
staggered the maturity dates over the next 10 years, with no single year having
disproportionate maturities.

•

Borrowings on the unsecured
line of credit have increased since 2001 as the Company has taken advantage of
lower interest rates and excess capacity to fund development, acquisition and
working capital needs.  The Company
renewed its unsecured line in January 2004, extending the due date to 2007
and lowering the interest rate from LIBOR + .65% to LIBOR + .60%.

Credit Ratings

The Company is currently assigned investment grade corporate credit
ratings on its senior unsecured notes from Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investor
Service and Standard and Poor’s Ratings Group. Currently, Fitch and Standard
and Poor’s have assigned a rating of BBB+ and Moody’s Investors has assigned a
rating of Baa1 to the senior notes. These ratings could change based upon,
among other things, the Company’s results of operations and financial
condition.

The Company also has received investment grade credit ratings from the
same rating agencies on its preferred stock. 
Fitch and Standard and Poor’s have assigned a Preferred Stock rating of
BBB and Moody’s Investors has assigned a Preferred Stock rating of Baa2. These
ratings could change based upon, among other things, the Company’s results of
operations and financial condition.

Financial Instruments

In December 2002, the Company simultaneously entered into two $50
million forward-starting interest rate swaps as a hedge to effectively fix the
rate on unsecured debt financings expected in 2003. The fair value of the swaps
was a liability of $2.1 million as of December 31, 2002, and was recorded
in other liabilities in the accompanying balance sheet.

In February 2003, the Company simultaneously entered into two
additional $25 million forward-starting interest rate swaps as a hedge to
effectively fix the rate on unsecured debt financings expected in 2003. All
four swaps qualified for hedge accounting under Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 133,

Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,

as amended

(“SFAS 133”); therefore, changes in fair
value were recorded in other comprehensive income.

In July 2003, the Company terminated the swaps for a net gain of
$643,000, which is included in other revenue in the Statements of Operations.
The swaps were terminated because the Company’s capital needs were met through
the issuance of the Series J Preferred Stock in lieu of the previously contemplated issuance of debt.

In July 2001, the Company terminated three interest rate swaps
that were tied to an $85 million unsecured term loan. The swaps qualified for
hedge accounting under SFAS 133. The
cost to terminate the swaps was $548,000, which was recorded as interest
expense.

In May 2003, the FASB issued Statement No. 150

Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity

(“SFAS 150”). SFAS
150 establishes standards for classifying and measuring as liabilities certain
financial instruments that embody obligations of the issuer and have
characteristics of both liabilities and equity. SFAS 150 is effective for all
financial instruments created or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise is
effective July 1, 2003. The Company includes the operations of


five joint ventures in its consolidated financial statements. These
joint ventures are partially owned by unaffiliated parties that have
noncontrolling interests. SFAS 150 requires the disclosure of the estimated
settlement value of these noncontrolling interests. As of December 31,
2003, the estimated settlement value of these noncontrolling interests was approximately
$4.3 million as compared to the minority interest liability recorded on the
Company’s books for these joint ventures of $1.2 million.

Off Balance Sheet
Arrangements

Investments in Unconsolidated
Companies

The Company has equity interests ranging from 10 – 64% in
unconsolidated joint ventures that own and operate rental properties and hold
land for development. The equity method of accounting is used for these
investments in which the Company has the ability to exercise significant
influence, but not control, over operating and financial policies. As a result,
the assets and liabilities of these joint ventures are not included on the
Company’s balance sheet.

The Company’s investment in unconsolidated companies represents less
than 6% of the Company’s total assets as of December 31, 2003. These
investments provide several benefits to the Company including increased market
share, tenant and property diversification and an additional source of capital
to fund real estate projects.

The following tables presents summarized financial information for
unconsolidated companies for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002
(in thousands, except percentages):

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company does not have any relationships with unconsolidated
entities or financial partnerships, such as “special purpose entities,” which
are generally established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet
arrangements or other specific purposes.

Contractual Obligations

As of December 31, 2003, the Company is subject to certain contractual
payment obligations as described in the schedule below (in thousands):


(1)

This long term debt consists of both secured and
unsecured debt.

(2)

In January 2004, the maturity of the Company’s
line-of-credit was extended to 2007.

(3)

The Company has guaranteed $92.0 million of the
total $278.7 million Company share of unconsolidated joint venture debt.

(4)

Estimated remaining costs on the completion of
held-for-rental, held-for-sale and third-party construction projects.

(5)

These land acquisitions are subject to the
completion of due diligence requirements, resolution of certain contingencies
and completion of customary closing conditions. If the Company were to
terminate these contracts, the Company would forfeit its total escrow amount of
$100,000 and would have no further contractual obligations.

(6)

This amount consists of operating leases and
infrastructure development commitments.

Related Party Transactions

The Company provides property management, leasing,
construction and other tenant related services to properties in which certain
executives have ownership interests. The Company had an option to acquire the
executive officers’ interests in these properties. Two of these properties, the
Bank One Towers office buildings in Cincinnati, Ohio, were acquired in
August 2003 at a price of $45.5 million. The terms of this acquisition
were reviewed and approved by the independent members of the Company’s Board of
Directors. The options on the remaining properties expired in
October 2003, as the independent members of the Board of Directors of the
Company determined that it was not in the best interests of the Company to
exercise the options.

The Company received fees totaling $1.2 million, $1.4
million and $1.7 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, for services
provided to these properties. The fees charged by the Company for such services
are equivalent to those charged to third-party owners for similar services.

The Company provides property management, leasing,
construction and other tenant related services to unconsolidated companies in
which the Company has equity interest. For the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, the Company received management fees of $4.9
million, $4.9 million and $4.7 million, leasing fees of $2.3 million, $2.5
million and $2.8 million and construction and development fees of $1.4 million,
$4.5 million and $5.2 million from these unconsolidated compaies.  These fees were charged at market rates and
the Company eliminates its ownership percentage of these fees in the
consolidated financials.

In 2002, the Company received lease termination fees totaling $7.7
million from a tenant that is a subsidiary of Progress Energy, Inc. William
Cavanaugh III is President and Chief Executive Officer of Progress Energy, Inc.
and a member of the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company’s independent
directors approved the transaction and management believes that the amount
received approximates a value that would have been charged to tenants with
similar lease terms and commitments.

The Company has other related party transactions that are insignificant
and are at terms that management considers to be arm’s-length and equal to
those negotiated with independent parties.

Commitments and Contingencies

The Company has the following commitments and contingencies in addition
to those previously disclosed:

In 1998 and 1999, certain members of management and
the Board of Directors purchased $69 million of common stock in connection with
an Executive and Senior Officer Stock Purchase Plan. The purchases were
financed by five-year personal loans from financial institutions. As of December 31,
2003, the outstanding balance on these loans was $11.7 million as some
participants have exited the program and repaid their principal balance. These
loans were secured by common shares with a fair market value of $18.2 million
purchased through this program and owned by the remaining plan participants at
December 31, 2003. As a condition of the financing agreement with the
financial institution, the Company guaranteed the repayment of


principal, interest and other obligations for each participant, but is
fully indemnified by the participants. In the opinion of management, it is not
probable that the Company will be required to satisfy these guarantees.

In October 2000, the Company sold or contributed industrial
properties and undeveloped land with a fair value of $487 million to a joint
venture (Dugan Realty LLC) in which the Company has a 50% interest and
recognized a net gain of $35.2 million. This transaction expanded an existing
joint venture with an institutional real estate investor. As a result of the
total transactions, the Company received $363.9 million of proceeds. The joint
venture partially financed this transaction with $350 million of secured
mortgage debt, the repayment of which was directly or indirectly guaranteed by
the Company. The guarantee associated with $260 million of such debt expired in
December 2003 without the Company being required to satisfy the guarantee.
The remaining $90 million of such debt is still guaranteed by the Company. In
connection with this transaction, the joint venture partners were given an
option to put up to a $50 million interest in the joint venture to the Company
in exchange for common stock of the Company or cash (at the option of the Company),
subject to certain timing and other restrictions. As a result of this put
option, the Company deferred $10.2 million of gain on sale of depreciated
property and recorded a $50 million liability.

The Company has guaranteed the repayment of $3.5
million of economic development bonds issued by the City of Carmel, Indiana.
The Company will be required to make payments under its guarantee to the extent
that incremental taxes from one of its office park developments are not
sufficient to pay the bond debt service. 
Management does not believe that it is probable that the Company will be
required to make any significant payments in satisfaction of this guarantee.

The Company has also guaranteed the repayment of a $2
million mortgage loan encumbering the real estate of one its unconsolidated
joint ventures. Management believes that the value of the real estate exceeds
the loan balance and that the Company will not be required to satisfy this
guarantee.

The Company has entered into agreements, subject to
the completion of due diligence requirements, resolution of certain
contingencies and completion of customary closing conditions, for the future
acquisition of land totaling $13.8 million. The acquisitions are scheduled to
close periodically through 2004 and will be paid for by cash.

The Company renewed all of its major insurance
policies in 2003. These policies include coverage for acts of terrorism for its
properties. The Company believes that this insurance provides adequate coverage
against normal insurance risks and that any loss experienced would not have a
significant impact on the Company’s liquidity, financial position, or results
of operations.

Broadband Office, Inc. and Official Committee of
Unsecured Creditors of Broadband Office, Inc. recently filed a complaint
against a group of real estate investment trusts and real estate operating
companies and certain affiliated entities and individuals in connection with
the formation and management of Broadband Office. Among the defendants are Duke
Realty Corporation, Duke Realty Limited Partnership and Mr. Dennis Oklak, one
of the Company’s executive officers. The complaint alleges various breaches of
purported fiduciary duties by the defendants, seeks recharacterization or
equitable subordination of debt, seeks recovery of alleged avoidable transfers,
appears to seek to hold them liable for, among other things, the debt of
Broadband Office under alter-ego, veil-piercing and partnership theories, and
seeks other relief under other theories. The complaint seeks aggregate damages
in excess of $300 million from all of the defendants. The Company believes that
it has meritorious defenses to the plaintiff’s allegations and intends to
vigorously defend this litigation. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the
litigation process and the judicial system, the Company is not able to predict
the outcome of this litigation. If this litigation is not resolved in the
Company’s favor, it could have a material adverse effect on its business,
financial condition and results of operations.

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings
and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of management, the amount of
any ultimate liability with respect to these actions will not materially affect
the Company’s consolidated financial statements or results of operations.


Recent Accounting
Pronouncements

In January 2003, FASB issued Interpretation 46, Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities (“Interpretation 46”), which addresses the
consolidation of certain entities in which a company has a controlling
financial interest through means other than voting rights. This interpretation
was revised in December 2003.  For
calendar year companies, Interpretation 46 contains an effective date of
December 31, 2003 for special purpose entities and periods ending after
March 15, 2004 for all other entities. The Company does not own interests
in special purpose entities and management does not believe that the adoption of
Interpretation 46 will have a material impact on the Company’s financial
statements.

Item
7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosure About Market Risks

The Company is exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result
of its line of credit and long-term debt borrowings. The Company’s interest
rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of interest rate changes
on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing costs. To achieve
its objectives the Company borrows primarily at fixed rates and may enter into
derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury
locks in order to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial
instrument. The Company does not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions
for speculative purposes.

The Company’s interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of
techniques. The table below presents the principal amounts (in thousands) of
the expected annual maturities, weighted average interest rates for the average
debt outstanding in the specified period, fair values and other terms required
to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes.

As the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of
December 31, 2003, it does not consider those exposures or positions that
could arise after that date. As a result, the Company’s ultimate realized gain
or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures
that arise during the period, the Company’s hedging strategies at that time,
and interest rates.

The Company’s unsecured line of credit was renewed in January 2004 with
the maturity date being extended to January 2007.  The table above reflects the 2007 maturity date.

Item
8.

Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

The financial statements and supplementary data are included under Item
15 of this Report.

Item
9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Part III

Item 9A.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our annual and
periodic reports filed with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. These
disclosure controls and procedures are further designed to ensure that such
information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
chief executive officer and chief financial officer, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.


Based on the most recent evaluation, which was completed as of
December 31, 2003, our chief executive officer, chief operating officer
and chief financial officer believe that our disclosure controls and procedures
are effective. There have been no significant changes in our internal controls
over financial reporting or in other factors that could significantly affect
the internal controls over financial reporting subsequent to the date we
completed our evaluation.

Item
10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant

Information with respect to this item is incorporated by reference from
the Company’s 2004 Proxy Statement (the “ 2004 Proxy Statement”) for its Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 28, 2004. Certain information
with respect to the Company’s executive officers appears in Item 4 of this Form
10-K. In addition, the Company’s Code of Conduct and its Corporate Governance
Guidelines are available in the investor information/corporate governance section of
the Company’s website at www.dukerealty.com. 
A copy of these documents may also be obtained without charge by writing
to Duke Realty Corporation, 600 East 96

th

Street, Suite 100,
Indianapolis, Indiana 46240, Attention: Investor Relations.

Item
11.

Executive
Compensation

Information with respect to this item is incorporated herein by
reference from the 2004 Proxy Statement.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Information with respect to this item is
incorporated

herein by reference from the 2004 Proxy Statement.

Item
13.

Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions

Information with respect to this item is
incorporated

herein

by reference from the 2004 Proxy Statement.

Item
14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Information with respect to this item is
incorporated

herein

by reference from the 2004 Proxy Statement.

Part IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
Reports on Form 8-K

(a)

The
following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K:

1.

Consolidated
Financial Statements

The following Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company,
together with the Independent Auditors’ Report, are listed below:

Independent Auditors’ Report

Consolidated Balance Sheets, December 31, 2003
and 2002

Consolidated Statements of Operations, Years Ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Years Ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity, Years
Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

2.

Consolidated
Financial Statement Schedules

Schedule III – Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation


3.

Exhibits

The following exhibits are filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated
herein by reference to the listed document previously filed with the SEC.
Previously unfiled documents are noted with an asterisk (*).





# Represents management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

The Company will furnish to any security holder, upon written request,
copies of any exhibit incorporated by reference, for a fee of 15 cents per
page, to cover the costs of furnishing the exhibits. Written request should
include a representation that the person making the request was the beneficial
owner of securities entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

(b)

Reports
on Form 8-K

A current report was filed on Form 8-K, dated January 22, 2004,
reporting under items 5 and 7 the execution of a new $500 million revolving
line of credit.

A current report was filed on Form 8-K, dated February 13, 2004,
setting forth under item 7 certain exhibits in connection with the closing of
the Company’s offering of 6,000,000 Depository Shares each representing 1/10 of
a 6.50% Series K Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares.

(c)

Exhibits

The exhibits required to be filed with this Form 10-K pursuant to Item
601 of Regulation S-K or listed under “Exhibits” in Part IV, Item 14(a)(3) of
Form 10-K, which are incorporated herein by reference.

(d)

Financial Statement
Schedule

The Financial Statement
Schedule required to be filed with this Form 10-K is listed under
“Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules” in Part IV, Item 14(a)(2) of this
Form 10-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.


Independent Auditors’
Report

The Shareholders and Directors of

Duke Realty Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Duke Realty
Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and shareholders’
equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2003. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements,
we also have audited the financial statement schedule III. These
consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule are
the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and the financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Duke Realty
Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule III, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

KPMG LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana

January 28, 2004


DUKE
REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated
Balance Sheets

As
of December 31

(in
thousands, except per share amounts)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.


DUKE
REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated
Statements of Operations

For
the Years Ended December 31

(in
thousands, except per share amounts)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.


DUKE
REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows

For
the Years Ended December 31

(in
thousands)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.


DUKE
REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

(in
thousands, except per share data)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.


DUKE
REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(1)

The
Company

The Company’s rental operations are conducted through Duke Realty
Limited Partnership (“DRLP”).  Approximately
90.1% of the common partnership interests of DRLP (“Units”) were owned by the
Company at December 31, 2003. The remaining Units in DRLP are redeemable
for shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company conducts Service
Operations through Duke Realty Services Limited Partnership (“DRSLP”), in which
the Company is the sole general partner. The Company also conducts Service
Operations through Duke Construction Limited Partnership (“DCLP”), which is
effectively 100% owned by DRLP.

(2)

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles
of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Company and its controlled subsidiaries. The equity interests in these
controlled subsidiaries not owned by the Company are reflected as minority
interests in the consolidated financial statements. All significant
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated
financial statements. Investments in entities that the Company does not control
through majority voting interest or where the other owner has substantial
participating rights are not consolidated and are reflected as investments in
unconsolidated companies under the equity method of reporting.

Reclassifications

Certain 2001 and 2002 balances have been reclassified to conform to the
2003 presentation.

Real
Estate Investments

Rental real property, including land, land improvements, buildings and
building improvements, are included in real estate investments and are
generally stated at cost. Buildings and land improvements are depreciated on
the straight-line method over their estimated life not to exceed 40 and 15
years, respectively, and tenant improvement costs are depreciated using the
straight-line method over the term of the related lease.

Direct and indirect costs, including interest and real estate taxes
associated with the development, construction, leasing or expansion of real
estate investments, are capitalized as a cost of the property.  Indirect costs include an estimate of internal
costs associated with the development and leasing of real estate investments.
All external costs associated with the acquisition of real estate investments
are capitalized as a cost of the property.

Construction in process and land held for development are included in
real estate investments and are stated at cost. Real estate investments also
include the Company’s equity interests in unconsolidated joint ventures that
own and operate rental properties and hold land for development. The equity
method of accounting is used for these investments in which the Company has the
ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over operating and
financial policies. Any difference between the carrying amount of these
investments and the underlying equity in net assets is amortized to equity in
earnings of unconsolidated companies over the depreciable life of the property,
generally 40 years.

The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long Lived Assets

(“SFAS144”), in 2002.  In accordance with this statement, properties held for rental are
individually evaluated for impairment when conditions exist which may indicate
that it is probable that the sum of expected future cash flows (on an
undiscounted basis) from a rental property over its anticipated holding period
is less than is historical net cost basis. Upon determination that a permanent
impairment has occurred, a loss is recorded to reduce the net book value of
that property to its fair market


value. Real properties to be disposed of are reported at the lower of
net historical cost basis or its estimated fair market value, less costs to
sell. Once a property is designated as held for disposal, no further
depreciation expense is recorded.

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 141,

Business Combinations

(“SFAS 141”), the
Company allocates the purchase price of acquired properties to net tangible and
identified intangible assets based on their respective fair values. The
allocation to tangible assets (building and land) is based upon management’s
determination of the value of the property as if it were vacant using
discounted cash flow models similar to those used by independent appraisers.
Factors considered by management include an estimate of carrying costs during
the expected lease-up periods considering current market conditions, and costs
to execute similar leases. The remaining purchase price is allocated among
three categories of intangible assets consisting of the above or below market
component of in—place leases, the value of in-place leases and the value of
customer relationships.

The value allocable to the above or below market component of an
acquired in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a
discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the acquired leases) of
the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the
lease over its remaining term, and (ii) management’s estimate of the amounts
that would be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of the
lease. The amounts allocated to above or below market leases are included in
deferred leasing and other costs in the balance sheet and are amortized to
rental income over the remaining terms of the respective leases.

The total amount of intangible assets is further allocated to in-place
lease values and to customer relationship values based upon management’s
assessment of their respective values. These intangible assets are included in
deferred leasing and other costs in the balance sheet and are depreciated over
the remaining term of the existing lease, or the anticipated life of the
customer relationship, as applicable.

Cash
Equivalents

Highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when
purchased are classified as cash equivalents.

Deferred
Costs

Costs incurred in connection with obtaining financing are amortized to
interest expense on the straight-line method, which approximates a constant
spread over the term of the related loan. All direct and indirect costs,
including estimated internal costs, associated with the leasing of real estate
investments owned by the Company are capitalized and amortized over the term of
the related lease. Unamortized costs are charged to expense upon the early
termination of the lease or upon early payment of the financing.

Revenues

Rental Operations

Rental income from leases with scheduled rental increases during their terms
is recognized on a straight-line basis.

Service Operations

Management fees are based on a percentage of rental receipts of
properties managed and are recognized as the rental receipts are collected.
Maintenance fees are based upon established hourly rates and are recognized

as the services are performed. Construction management and development
fees represent fee based third party contracts and are recognized as earned
based on the terms of the contract, which approximates the percentage of
completion method.


The Company recognizes income on construction contracts where the
Company serves as a general contractor on the percentage of completion method.
Using this method, profits are recorded based on the Company’s estimates of the
percentage of completion of individual contracts, commencing when the work
performed under the contracts reach a point where the final costs can be
estimated with reasonable accuracy. The percentage of completion estimates are
based on a comparison of the contract expenditures incurred to the estimated
final costs. Changes in job performance, job conditions and estimated
profitability may result in revisions to costs and income and are recognized in
the period in which the revisions are determined.

Property Sales

Gains from sales of depreciated property are recognized in accordance
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 66,

Accounting for Sales of Real Estate

(“SFAS
66”), and are included in earnings from sales of land and depreciable property
dispositions, net of any impairment adjustments, in the Statement of Operations
if identified as held-for-sale prior to adoption of SFAS 144 and in
discontinued operations if identified as held-for-sale after adoption of SFAS
144.

Gains or losses from the sale of property that were developed with the
intent to sell and not for long-term rental are recognized in accordance with
SFAS 66 and are included in construction management and development activity
income in the Statement of Operations.

Net
Income Per Common Share

Basic net income per common share is computed by dividing net income
available for common shares by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per common share is

computed
by dividing the sum of net income available for common shareholders and the
minority interest in earnings allocable to Units not owned by the Company, by
the sum of the weighted average number of common shares and minority Units
outstanding, including any dilutive potential common shares for the period.

The following table reconciles the components of basic and diluted net
income per common share (in thousands):

The Company’s outstanding Series D Convertible Preferred Stock was
anti-dilutive for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001;
therefore, no conversion to common shares is included in weighted average
dilutive potential common shares. In September 2002, the Company redeemed
the Series G Convertible Preferred Units at their par value of $35.0 million.
These Units were anti-dilutive for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001; therefore, no conversion to common shares was included in weighted
average dilutive potential common shares.

A joint venture partner in one of the Company’s unconsolidated
companies has the option to convert a portion of its ownership to Company
common shares. The effect of this option on earnings per share was
anti-dilutive for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 and was
dilutive for the year ended December 31, 2001; therefore, conversion to
common shares was included in weighted dilutive potential common shares for
that year.


Federal
Income Taxes

The Company has elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust
(“REIT”) under the Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, the Company
must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a
requirement to distribute at least 90% of its adjusted taxable income to its
stockholders. Management intends to continue to adhere to these requirements
and to maintain the Company’s REIT status. As a REIT, the Company is entitled
to a tax deduction

for some or all of the dividends it pays
to its shareholders. Accordingly, the Company generally will not be subject to
federal income taxes as long as it distributes an amount equal to or in excess
of its taxable income currently to its stockholders. A REIT generally is subject
to federal income taxes on any taxable income that is not currently distributed
to its shareholders. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable
year, it will be subject to federal income taxes and may not be able to qualify
as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years.

REIT qualification reduces, but does not eliminate, the amount of state
and local taxes paid by the Company. In addition, the Company’s financial
statements include the operations of taxable corporate subsidiaries that are
not entitled to a dividends paid deduction and are subject to corporate
federal, state and local income taxes. As a REIT, the Company may also be
subject to certain federal excise taxes if it engages in certain types of
transactions.

The following table reconciles the Company’s
net income to its taxable income before the dividends paid deduction for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:

The Company’s dividends paid deduction is summarized below:

A summary of the tax characterization of the dividends paid for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 follows:

The Company recorded federal and state income taxes of $4.2 million,
$12.0 million and $5.2 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, which
were primarily attributable to the earnings of the Company’s taxable REIT
subsidiaries. The taxable REIT subsidiaries had no significant deferred income
tax items.


Stock
Based Compensation

The Company applies the recognition and
measurement provisions of APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees,

and related Interpretations in
accounting, for all stock based awards issued prior to 2002. Accordingly, for
stock options granted prior to 2002, no compensation expense is reflected in
net income as all options granted had an exercise price equal to the market
value of the underlying common stock on the date of the grant.

In 2002, the Company prospectively adopted
the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

(“SFAS 123”)

,

for all awards granted after
January 1, 2002.

Awards under the Company’s stock based employee compensation plans
generally vest over five years at 20% per year. Therefore, the expense related
to these plans is less than that which would have been recognized if the fair
value method had been applied to all awards since the original effective date
of SFAS 123. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and
earnings per share if the fair value method had been applied to all outstanding
and unvested awards in each period.

Derivative Financial
Instruments

The Company periodically enters into certain interest rate protection
agreements to effectively convert or cap floating rate debt to a fixed rate,
and to hedge anticipated future financing transactions. Net amounts paid or
received under these agreements are recognized as an adjustment to the interest
expense of the corresponding debt. The Company does not utilize derivative
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

The Company adopted SFAS 133

Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

, as amended (“SFAS
133”), on January 1, 2001. SFAS 133 requires that all derivative
instruments be recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities at their
fair value. The cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 133 was not material to the
Company’s financial statements on the date of adoption. Derivatives that are
not hedges must be adjusted to fair value through the recording of income or
expense. If a derivative qualifies as a hedge, the changes in fair value of the
effective portion of the hedge are recognized in other comprehensive income,
while the ineffective portion of the derivative’s change in fair value is
recognized in earnings. The Company estimates the fair value of derivative
instruments using standard market conventions and techniques such as discounted
cash flow analysis, option pricing models and termination cost at each balance
sheet date.

Use
Of Estimates

The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make
a number of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets
and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets


and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

(3)

Related
Party Transactions

The Company provides property management, leasing, construction and
other tenant related services to properties in which certain executives have
ownership interests. The Company had an option to acquire the executive
officers’ interests in these properties. Two of these properties, the Bank One
Towers office buildings in Cincinnati, Ohio, were acquired in August 2003
at a price of $45.5 million. The terms of this acquisition were reviewed and
approved by the independent members of the Company’s Board of Directors. The
options on the remaining properties expired in October 2003, as the
independent members of the Board of Directors of the Company determined that it
was not in the best interest of the Company to exercise those options.

The Company received fees totaling $1.2 million, $1.4 million and $1.7
million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, for services provided to these
properties. The fees charged by the Company for such services are equivalent to
those charged to third-party owners for similar services.

The Company provides property management, leasing, construction and
other tenant related services to unconsolidated companies in which the Company
has an equity interest. For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively, the Company received management fees of $4.9 million, $4.9
million and $4.7 million, leasing fees of $2.3 million, $2.5 million and $2.8
million and construction and development fees of $1.4 million, $4.5 million and
$5.2 million from these unconsolidated companies.  These fees were recorded at market rates and the Company
eliminates its ownership percentage of these fees in the consolidated
financials.

In 2002, the Company received lease termination fees totaling $7.7
million from a tenant that is a subsidiary of Progress Energy, Inc. William
Cavanaugh III is President and Chief Executive Officer of Progress Energy, Inc.
and a member of the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company’s independent
directors approved the transaction and management believes that the amount
received approximates a value that would have been charged to tenants with
similar lease terms and commitments.

The Company has other related party transactions that are insignificant
and are at terms that management considers to be arm’s-length and equal to
those negotiated with independent parties.

(4)

Investments
in Unconsolidated Companies

The Company has equity interests ranging from 10 — 64% in
unconsolidated joint ventures that own and operate rental properties and hold
land for development.

Combined summarized financial information for the unconsolidated
companies as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, are as follows (in thousands):


The Company’s share of the scheduled payments
of long term debt for the unconsolidated joint ventures for each of the next
five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2003, are as follows (in
thousands):

The following significant transactions

involving the unconsolidated companies have occurred
over the past three years:

During 2003, the Company purchased its
partner’s interest in three separate joint ventures. The Company had a 50%
interest in each of these ventures prior to their acquisition. The Company also
sold its 50% interest in two separate joint ventures to its partners. In
addition, the Company contributed cash and undeveloped land to a joint venture
that owns undeveloped land and an office building in return for a 50% interest.

In 2002, the Company recognized a gain of $1.8 million on the sale of a
building that was developed for sale by a joint venture in which the Company
owned a 50% interest. The gain was included in equity in earnings in the
Statement of Operations. The Company also bought out its other partners’ interest
in six separate joint ventures.  The
Company had a 50% interest in each of these ventures prior to their
acquisition.

During 2001, the Company received approximately $50.0 million in cash
distributions resulting from secured debt financing within two 50 % owned joint
ventures. The debt is nonrecourse to the Company and is secured by rental
properties owned by the joint ventures. In addition, the Company recognized a
gain of $2.9 million from the sale of depreciable property by a joint venture
in which the Company owned a 50% interest. The gain is included in equity in
earnings in the Statement of Operations.

(5)

Real
Estate Investments

The Company adopted SFAS No. 144,

Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets

(“SFAS 144”), on
January 1, 2002. SFAS 144 requires the Company to report in discontinued
operations the results of operations of a property which has either been
disposed or is classified as held-for-sale, unless certain conditions are met.

The Company has classified operations of 45 buildings as discontinued
operations in accordance with SFAS 144. These 45 buildings consist of
thirty-four industrial, seven office and four retail properties. As a result,
the Company classified net income, net of minority interest, of $2.7 million,
$5.1 million and $6.2 million as net income from discontinued operations for
the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Forty-two
of these properties were sold during 2003, two properties were sold during 2002
and one operating property is classified as held-for-sale at December 31,
2003; therefore, the gains on disposal of these properties, net of impairment
adjustment and minority interest, of $11.7 million and ($15,000) for the year
ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are also reported in
discontinued operations.

The following table illustrates the major classes of assets and
operations affected by the 45 buildings identified as discontinued operations
at December 31, 2003 (in thousands):


The Company allocates interest expense to discontinued operations as
permitted under EITF 87-24,

“Allocation of
Interest to Discontinued Operations,”

and has included such interest
expense in computing net income from discontinued operations. Interest expense
allocable to discontinued operations includes interest on the debt for the
secured properties and an allocable share of the Company’s consolidated
unsecured interest expense for unencumbered properties. The allocation of
unsecured interest expense to discontinued operations was based upon the Gross
Book Value of the discontinued operations unencumbered population as it related
to the Company’s entire unencumbered population.

At December 31, 2003, the Company had four office, three
industrial and one retail properties comprising approximately 785,000 square
feet classified as held-for-sale. With the exception of one industrial property
mentioned above, each of these properties was under development on that date
and had no operations. Net operating income (defined as total property
revenues, less property expenses, which include real estate taxes, repairs and
maintenance, property management, utilities, insurance and other expenses) of
the properties held-for-sale for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002
and 2001 was approximately $206,000, $89,000 and $88,000, respectively. The net
book value of the properties held-for-sale at December 31, 2003, was
approximately $47.2 million.

In 2003 the Company recorded $1.1 million of impairment adjustments for
one industrial building and three land parcels that were held-for-sale. These
adjustments reflect the write-down of the carrying value of the properties to
their projected sales price, less selling expenses, once it became probable
that the properties would be sold.  Each
of these properties was later sold in 2003.

The Company recorded a $9.4 million impairment adjustment for six
properties in 2002. This total consisted of a $7.7 million adjustment for three
industrial properties and a $1.7 million adjustment for three office
properties. The properties were identified as impaired upon the comparison of
their projected undiscounted cash flows to their carrying value. The impairment
adjustment reflects the write-down of the carrying value of the properties to
their estimated fair market value. In estimating fair market value, management
considers valuation factors used by independent appraisers, including the sales
of comparable properties, replacement cost and the capitalization of future
expected net operating income.


In 2001, the Company recorded a $4.8 million impairment adjustment for
an industrial property that was sold in 2002. This adjustment reflected the
write-down of the carrying value of that property to an amount equal to its
projected sales price, less selling expenses, once it became probable the
property would be sold.

(6)

Indebtedness

Indebtedness at December 31 consists of the following (in
thousands):

The fair value of the Company’s indebtedness as of December 31,
2003, was $2.5 billion.

As of December 31, 2003, the $208.6 million of secured debt was
collateralized by rental properties with a carrying value of $453.7 million and
by letters of credit in the amount of $15 million.

The Company had one unsecured line of credit available at
December 31, 2003, described as follows (in thousands):

Description

Borrowing

Capacity

Maturity

Date

Interest

Rate

Outstanding

at December

31, 2003

Unsecured Line of Credit

$

500,000

February 2004

LIBOR + .65%

$

351,000

In January 2004, the line of credit was extended through
January 2007 at an interest rate of LIBOR plus .60%. The line of credit is
used to fund development activities and acquire additional rental properties
and to provide working capital.

At December 31, 2003, the scheduled amortization and maturities of
all indebtedness for the next five years and thereafter were as follows  (in thousands):

The amount of interest paid in 2003, 2002, and 2001 was $130.1 million,
$125.9 million and $140.5 million, respectively. The amount of interest
capitalized in 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $6.7 million, $13.5 million and $25.9
million, respectively.

In January 2004, the Company issued $125.0 million of unsecured
debt having an effective interest rate of 3.36% due 2008.

The indenture governing the Company’s unsecured notes also requires the
Company to comply with financial ratios and other covenants regarding the
operations of the Company. At December 31, 2003, the Company is in
compliance with all such covenants and expects to remain in compliance for the
foreseeable future.


(7)

Segment
Reporting

The Company is engaged in four operating segments: the ownership and
rental of office, industrial and retail real estate investments (collectively,
“Rental Operations”), and the providing of various real estate services such as
property management, maintenance, leasing, development and construction
management to third-party property owners (“Service Operations”). The Company’s
reportable segments offer different products or services and are managed
separately because each requires different operating strategies and management
expertise. There are no material intersegment sales or transfers.

Non-segment revenue consists mainly of equity in earnings of
unconsolidated companies. Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets
including cash, deferred financing costs and investments in unconsolidated
companies. Interest expense and other non-property specific revenues and
expenses are not allocated to individual segments in determining the Company’s
performance measure.

The Company assesses and measures segment operating results based upon
an industry performance measure referred to as Funds From Operations (“FFO”),
which management believes is a useful indicator of the Company’s operating
performance. FFO is used by industry analysts and investors as a supplemental
operating performance measure of an equity real estate investment trust
(“REIT”). FFO is calculated in accordance with the definition that was adopted
by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment
Trusts (“NAREIT”). FFO, as defined by NAREIT, represents net income (loss)
determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America (“GAAP”), excluding extraordinary items as defined
under GAAP and gains or losses from sales of previously depreciated operating
real estate assets, plus certain non-cash items such as real estate asset
depreciation and amortization, and after adjustment for unconsolidated
partnerships and joint ventures.

The revenues and FFO for each of the reportable segments for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, and the assets of each reportable
segment as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 are summarized as follows (in
thousands):


In addition to revenues and FFO, the Company also reviews its recurring
capital expenditures in measuring the performance of its individual segments.
These recurring capital expenditures consist of tenant improvements, leasing
commissions and building improvements. These expenditures are reviewed by the
Company to determine the costs associated with re-leasing vacant space. The
Company’s recurring capital expenditures by segment are summarized as follows
for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively (in
thousands):


(8)

Leasing
Activity

Future minimum rents due to the Company under non-cancelable operating
leases at December 31, 2003, are as follows (in thousands):

In addition to minimum rents, certain leases require reimbursements of
specified operating expenses that amounted to $130.3 million, $120.1 million,
and $115.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

(9)

Employee
Benefit Plans

The Company maintains a 401(k) plan for its full-time employees.  The Company makes matching contributions up
to an amount equal to three percent of the employees’ salary and may also make
annual discretionary contributions. The total expense recognized by the Company
for this plan was $1.6 million, $1.7 million and $1.3 million for the years
ended 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

The Company makes contributions to a contributory health and welfare
plan as necessary to fund claims not covered by employee contributions. The
total expense recognized by the Company related to this plan was $6.4 million,
$4.9 million and $5.6 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These
expense amounts include estimates based upon the historical experience of
claims incurred but not reported as of year-end.

(10)

Shareholders’
Equity

The Company periodically accesses the public equity markets to fund the
development and acquisition of additional rental properties or to pay down
debt. The proceeds of these offerings are contributed to DRLP in exchange for
an additional interest in DRLP.

The following series of preferred stock were outstanding as of
December 31, 2003 (in thousands, except percentages):

All series of preferred shares require
cumulative distributions and have no stated maturity date (although the Company
may redeem them on or following their optional redemption dates).

The Series B, Series E, Series I and Series J
Preferred Stock may be redeemed only at the Company’s option, in whole or in
part. The Series D Preferred Stock may be redeemed at the Company’s option in
whole or in part, as well as at the option of a shareholder’s estate, upon the
death of a shareholder.

The Company issued $100 million
of Series J Preferred Shares in August 2003.

The Series D Preferred shares are convertible at a conversion rate of
..93677 common shares for each preferred share outstanding.


The dividend rate on the Series B Preferred shares increases to 9.99%
after September 12, 2012. The Company repurchased 355,000 shares of the
Series B Preferred shares in September 2002. The repurchase transaction
was initiated by a group of Series B Preferred shareholders who voluntarily
approached the Company with an opportunity for the Company to buyback these
shares before their earliest stated redemption date.

The Company redeemed its $150.0 million Series F Preferred shares in
October 2002 at par value. Effective August 31, 2002, the Company
terminated a shareholder rights plan that had included the potential issuance
of Series C Junior Preferred Stock.

The Company redeemed its $100.00 million Series E Preferred Shares on
January 20, 2004, at par value.

(11)

Stock
Based Compensation

At December 31, 2003, the Company had nine stock-based employee
compensation plans that are described more fully below.  The Company is authorized to issue up to
7,812,984 shares of Company stock under these Plans.

Fixed Stock Option Plans

The Company had options outstanding under six fixed stock option plans
as of December 31, 2003. Additional grants may be made under three of
those plans.

A summary of the status of the Company’s fixed stock option plans as of
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 and changes during the years ended on
those dates follows:

The fair values of the options were determined using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:

The options outstanding at December 31, 2003, under the fixed
stock option plans have a range of exercise prices from $12.94 to $29.23 with a
weighted average exercise price of $22.65 and a weighted average remaining
contractual life of 6.17 years. The options exercisable at December 31,
2003 have a weighted average exercise price of $21.61.

Each option’s maximum term is ten years. With limited exceptions,
options vest at 20% per year, or, if earlier, upon the death, retirement or
disability of the optionee or a change in control of the Company.


Performance Based Stock Plans

Performance shares are granted under the 2000 Performance Share Plan,
with each performance share economically equivalent to one share of Company
common stock. The performance shares vest over a 5-year period with the vesting
percentage for a year dependent upon the Company’s attainment of certain
predefined levels of earnings growth for such year. The value of vested
performance shares are payable in cash upon the retirement or termination of
employment of the participant.  At
December 31, 2003, plan participants had the right to receive up to 64,849
performance shares, of which 33,350 were vested and 31,499 were contingent upon
future earnings achievement.

The amount of compensation cost was based upon the intrinsic value of
the vested performance shares at the end of each applicable reporting period.
The compensation cost that was charged against income for this plan was
$529,000, $96,000 and $201,000 for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

In October 2002, the Company amended its Shareholder Value Plan
(“SVP Plan”) and Dividend Increase Unit Plans (“DIU Plans”) by requiring that
all payouts under these two plans to be in cash only. Payments made under the
Company’s SVP Plan are based upon the Company’s cumulative shareholder return
for a three-year period as compared to the cumulative total return of the
S&P 500 and the NAREIT Equity REIT Total Return indices. Payments under the
DIU Plans are based upon increases in the Company’s dividend per common share.
The total compensation cost that was charged against income for these two plans
was $1.6 million, $4.6 million and $6.0 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

Directors Stock Payment Plan

Under the Company’s 1999 Directors’ Stock Payment Plan, non-employee
members of the Company’s board of directors are entitled to 1,200 shares of
Company stock per year as partial compensation for services as a board member.
The shares are fully vested when issued and the Company records the value of
the shares as an expense. The amount of that expense was $415,000, $274,000 and
$260,000 for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan, employees are
entitled to purchase Company common stock at a 15% discount through payroll
deductions. Under SFAS 123, the Company is required to record the amount of the
discount as compensation expense. The amount of that expense for 2003 and 2002
was $219,000 and $181,000, respectively.

(12)

Financial
Instruments

In December 2002, the Company simultaneously entered into two $50
million forward-starting interest rate swaps as a hedge to effectively fix the
rate on unsecured debt financings expected in 2003. The fair value of the swaps
was a liability of $2.1 million as of December 31, 2002, and was recorded
in other liabilities in the accompanying balance sheet.

In February 2003, the Company simultaneously entered into two
additional $25 million forward-starting interest rate swaps as a hedge to
effectively fix the rate on unsecured debt financings expected in 2003. All
four swaps qualified for hedge accounting under SFAS 133; therefore, changes in
fair value were recorded in other comprehensive income.

In July 2003, the Company terminated the swaps for a net gain of $643,000,
which is included in other revenue in the Statements of Operations. The swaps
were terminated because the Company’s capital needs were met through the
issuance of the Series J Preferred Stock in lieu of the previously contemplated
issuance of debt.


During the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company
recorded a $1.4 million gain and a $1.4 million loss, respectively, associated
with an interest rate contract that did not qualify for hedge accounting.  The contract expired on December 30,
2002.

In July 2001, the Company terminated three interest rate swaps
that were tied to an $85 million unsecured term loan. The swaps qualified for
hedge accounting under SFAS 133. The
costs to terminate the swaps was $548,000, which was recorded as interest
expense and reversed out of other comprehensive income.

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150

Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of
both Liabilities and Equity

(“SFAS 150”). SFAS 150 establishes
standards for classifying and measuring as liabilities certain financial
instruments that embody obligations of the issuer and have characteristics of
both liabilities and equity. SFAS 150 is effective for all financial instruments
created or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise is effective July 1,
2003. The Company includes the operations of five joint ventures in its
consolidated financial statements. These joint ventures are partially owned by
unaffiliated parties that have noncontrolling interests. SFAS 150 requires the
disclosure of the estimated settlement value of these noncontrolling interests.
As of December 31, 2003, the estimated settlement value of these
noncontrolling interests was approximately $4.3 million as compared to the
minority interest liability recorded on the Company’s books for these joint
ventures of $1.2 million.

(13)

Recent
Accounting Pronouncements

In July of 2003, the SEC issued a Staff Policy Statement that
clarifies the application of FASB-EITF Topic D-42 (Topic D-42), “The Effect on
the Calculation of Earnings per Share for the Redemption or Induced Conversion
of Preferred Stock.” Under Topic D-42, the difference between the amounts paid
to the holders of preferred stock and the carrying amount of the preferred
stock on the issuer’s balance sheet must be subtracted from net income when
computing earnings per share. The Staff Policy Statement clarified that, in
computing the reduction in net income, the carrying amount of the preferred stock
should be reduced by the issuance costs of the preferred stock. As a result of
this clarification, the Company’s net income per share was restated for 2002
and 2001.  The impact of this statement
is summarized as follows:

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation 46, Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities (“Interpretation 46”), which addresses the
consolidation of certain entities in which a company has a controlling
financial interest through means other than voting rights. This interpretation
was revised in December 2003.  For
calendar year companies, Interpretation 46 contains an effective date of
December 31, 2003 for special purpose entities and periods ending after
March 15, 2004 for all other entities. The Company does not own interests
in special purpose entities and management does not believe that the adoption
of Interpretation 46 will have a material impact on the Company’s financial
statements.

(14)

Commitments
and Contingencies

In 1998 and 1999, certain members of management and the Board of
Directors purchased $69 million of common stock in connection with an Executive
and Senior Officer Stock Purchase Plan. The purchases were


financed by five-year personal loans at market interest rates from
financial institutions. As of December 31, 2003, the outstanding balance
on these loans was $11.7 million as some participants have exited the program
and repaid their principal balance. These loans were secured by common shares
with a fair market value of $18.2 million purchased through this program and
owned by the remaining plan participants at December 31, 2003. As a
condition of the financing agreement with the financial institution, the
Company guaranteed repayment of principal, interest and other obligations for
each participant, but is fully indemnified by the participants. In the opinion
of management, it is not probable that the Company will be required to satisfy
these guarantees.

In October 2000, the Company sold or contributed industrial
properties and undeveloped land with a fair value of $487 million to a joint
venture (Dugan Realty LLC) in which the Company has a 50% interest and
recognized a net gain of $35.2 million. This transaction expanded an existing
joint venture with an institutional real estate investor. As a result of the
total transactions, the Company received $363.9 million of proceeds. The joint
venture partially financed this transaction with $350 million of secured
mortgage debt, the repayment of which was directly or indirectly guaranteed by
the Company. The guarantee associated with $260 million of such debt expired in
December 2003 without the Company being required to satisfy the guarantee.
The remaining $90 million of such debt is still guaranteed by the Company. In
connection with this transaction, the joint venture partners were given an
option to put up to a $50 million interest in the joint venture to the Company
in exchange for common stock of the Company or cash (at the option of the
Company), subject to certain timing and other restrictions. As a result of this
put option, the Company deferred $10.2 million of gain on sale of depreciated
property and recorded a $50 million liability.

The Company has guaranteed the repayment of $3.5 million of economic
development bonds issued by the City of Carmel, Indiana. The Company will be
required to make payments under its guarantee to the extent that incremental
taxes from one of its office park developments are not sufficient to pay the
bond debt service.  Management does not
believe that it is probable that the Company will be required to make any
significant payments in satisfaction of this guarantee.

The Company has also guaranteed the repayment of a $2 million mortgage
loan encumbering the real estate of one its unconsolidated joint ventures.
Management believes that the value of the real estate exceeds the loan balance
and that the Company will not be required to satisfy this guarantee.

The Company has entered into agreements, subject to the completion of
due diligence requirements, resolution of certain contingencies and completion
of customary closing conditions, for the future acquisition of land totaling
$13.8 million. The acquisitions are scheduled to close periodically through
2004 and will be paid for by cash.

The Company renewed all of its major insurance policies in 2003. These
policies include coverage for acts of terrorism for its properties. The Company
believes that this insurance provides adequate coverage against normal
insurance risks and that any loss experienced would not have a significant
impact on the Company’s liquidity, financial position, or results of
operations.

Broadband Office, Inc. and Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of
Broadband Office, Inc. recently filed a complaint against a group of real
estate investment trusts and real estate operating companies and certain
affiliated entities and individuals in connection with the formation and
management of Broadband Office. Among the defendants are Duke Realty
Corporation, Duke Realty Limited Partnership and Mr. Dennis Oklak, one of the
Company’s executive officers. The complaint alleges various breaches of
purported fiduciary duties by the defendants, seeks recharacterization or
equitable subordination of debt, seeks recovery of alleged avoidable transfers,
appears to seek to hold them liable for, among other things, the debt of
Broadband Office under alter-ego, veil-piercing and partnership theories, and
seeks other relief under other theories. The complaint seeks aggregate damages
in excess of $300 million from all of the defendants. The


Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the plaintiff’s
allegations and intends to vigorously defend this litigation. Due to the
inherent uncertainties of the litigation process and the judicial system, the
Company is not able to predict the outcome of this litigation. If this
litigation is not resolved in the Company’s favor, it could have a material
adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that
arise in the ordinary course of business. 
In the opinion of management, the amount of any ultimate liability with
respect to these actions will not materially affect the Company’s consolidated
financial statements or results of operations.
















(1)

Depreciation of real estate is computed
using the straight-line method over 40 years for buildings, 15 years for land
improvements and shorter periods based on lease terms (generally 3 to 10 years)
for tenant improvements.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


* By Dennis D. Oklak, Attorney-in-Fact

/s/ 
  Dennis D. Oklak

76