10-K


a06-1916_110k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 

FORM 10-K

Commission File Number: 1-9044

DUKE REALTY CORPORATION

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area
code:

(317)
808-6000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Depositary Shares, each
representing a 1/10 interest in 7.99% Series B Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares ($.01 par value)

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act.  Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.  Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.    Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of 
“accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

ý

Accelerated
filer

o

Non-accelerated
filer

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

ý

The aggregate market
value of the voting shares of the registrant’s outstanding common shares held
by non-affiliates of the registrant is $4.5 billion based on the last reported
sale price on June 30, 2005.

The number of common
shares,  $.01 par value outstanding as of
March 1, 2006 was 134,819,571.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain portions of Duke
Realty Corporation’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (the “Proxy Statement”) to be filed pursuant to Rule 14a-6 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are incorporated by reference
into this Form 10-K. Other than those portions of the Proxy Statement
specifically incorporated by reference pursuant to Items 10 through 14 of Part III
hereof, no other portions of the Proxy Statement shall be deemed so
incorporated.


Form 10-K

Cautionary Statement Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements
contained or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, including those
related to our future operations, constitute “forward-looking statements”
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. (the “Exchange Act”). These forward-looking statements involve known
and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause
our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to differ
materially from any predictions of future results, performance or achievements
that we express or imply in this report. Some of the risks, uncertainties and
other important factors that may affect future results include, among others:

•

Changes
in general economic and business conditions, including performance of financial
markets;

•

Our
continued qualification as a real estate investment trust;

•

Heightened
competition for tenants and potential decreases in property occupancy;

•

Potential
increases in real estate construction costs; potential changes in the financial
markets and interest rates;

•

Our
continuing ability to favorably raise debt and equity in the capital markets;

•

Our
ability to successfully identify, acquire, develop and/or manage properties on
terms that are favorable to us;

•

Our
ability to successfully dispose of properties on terms that are favorable to
us;

•

Inherent
risks in the real estate business including tenant defaults, potential
liability relating to environmental matters and liquidity of real estate
investments; and

•

Other
risks and uncertainties that are described herein, including but not limited to
the items discussed in “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this report, and that are
otherwise described from time to time in our reports filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

The words “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,”
“seek” and similar expressions or statements regarding future periods are
intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the
plans, expectations and results expressed in or suggested by the
forward-looking statements are reasonable, all forward-looking statements are
inherently uncertain as they involve substantial risks and uncertainties beyond
our control. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for
us to predict the nature or assess the potential impact of each new factor on
our business. Given these uncertainties, we caution you not to place undue
reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to
update or revise any of our forward-looking statements for events or
circumstances that arise after the statement is made.

PART I

Item 1.  Business

Background

We are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment
trust (“REIT”), which began operations upon completion of our initial public
offering in February 1986. In October 1993, we completed an
additional common shares offering and acquired the rental real estate and
service businesses of Duke Associates, whose operations began in 1972. As of December 31,
2005, our diversified portfolio of 690 rental properties (including 26
properties totaling more than 6.8 million square feet under development)


encompass more than 105.4 million rentable square feet and are leased
by a diverse and stable base of approximately 3,500 tenants whose businesses
include manufacturing, retailing, wholesale trade, distribution and
professional services. We also own or

control

approximately 4,800 acres of unencumbered land ready for
development.

Through our Service
Operations, we provide, on a fee basis, leasing, property and asset management,
development, construction, build-to-suit and other tenant-related services for
approximately 120 tenants in more than 6.7 million square feet of space at
properties owned by third-party clients. With 13 primary operating platforms,
we concentrate our activities in the Midwest and Southeast United States. See
Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”
for financial information. Our rental operations are conducted through Duke
Realty Limited Partnership (“DRLP”). In addition, we conduct our Service
Operations through Duke Realty Services LLC (“DRS”), Duke Realty Services
Limited Partnership (“DRSLP”) and Duke Construction Limited Partnership (“DCLP”).  In this Form 10-K Report, the terms “we,”
“us” and “our” refer to the Company and those entities owned or controlled by
the Company.

Our headquarters and
executive offices are located in Indianapolis, Indiana. In addition, we have
twelve regional offices located in Atlanta, Georgia; Cincinnati, Ohio;
Columbus, Ohio; Cleveland, Ohio; Chicago, Illinois; Dallas, Texas; Minneapolis,
Minnesota; Nashville, Tennessee; Orlando, Florida; Raleigh, North Carolina; St.
Louis, Missouri; and Tampa, Florida. We had approximately 1,100 employees as of
December 31, 2005.

Business
Strategy

Our business objective is
to increase Funds From Operations (“FFO”) by (i) maintaining and
increasing property occupancy and rental rates through the management of our
portfolio of existing properties; (ii) developing and acquiring new
properties for rental operations in our existing markets; (iii) expanding
geographically by acquiring and developing properties in new markets; (iv) using
our construction expertise to act as a general contractor in our existing
markets and other domestic markets on a fee basis; (v) developing
properties in our existing markets and other markets which we will sell through
our merchant building development program and (vi) providing a full line
of real estate services to our tenants and to third parties. FFO is used by
industry analysts and investors as a supplemental operating performance measure
of an equity REIT. FFO is calculated in accordance with the definition that was
adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate
Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”). FFO, as defined by NAREIT, represents net income
(loss) determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America (“GAAP”), excluding extraordinary items as
defined under GAAP and gains or losses from sales of previously depreciated
operating real estate assets, plus certain non-cash items such as real estate
asset depreciation and amortization, and after similar adjustments for
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

Historical cost
accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP implicitly assumes
that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since
real estate values instead have historically risen or fallen with market
conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation
of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost
accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Thus, NAREIT created FFO as a
supplemental measure of REIT operating performance that excludes historical
cost depreciation, among other items, from GAAP net income. Management believes
that the use of FFO, combined with the required primary GAAP presentations,
improves the understanding of operating results of REITs among the investing
public and makes comparisons of REIT operating results more meaningful.
Management considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing comparative
operating and financial performance (although FFO should be reviewed in
conjunction with net income which remains the primary measure of performance)
because by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated
operating real estate assets and excluding real estate asset depreciation and
amortization, FFO assists in comparing the operating performance of a company’s
real estate between periods or as compared to different companies.


As a fully integrated
commercial real estate firm, we provide in-house leasing, management,
development and construction services which, coupled with our significant base
of commercially zoned and unencumbered land in existing business parks, should
give us a competitive advantage both as a real estate operator and in future
development activities.

We believe that the
management of real estate opportunities and risks can be done most effectively
at regional or local levels. As a result, we intend to continue our emphasis on
increasing our market share and effective rents in the primary markets where we
own properties. We also expect to utilize approximately 4,800 acres of
unencumbered land and our many business relationships with approximately 3,500
commercial tenants to expand our build-to-suit business (development projects
substantially pre-leased to a single tenant) and to pursue other development
and acquisition opportunities in our primary markets. We believe that this
regional focus will allow us to assess market supply and demand for real estate
more effectively as well as to capitalize on the strong relationships with our
tenant base. In addition, we seek to further capitalize on strong customer
relationships to provide third-party construction and build-for-sale services
outside our primary markets and to expand into high growth and seaport markets
across the United States.

Our strategy is to seek
to develop and acquire primarily Class A commercial properties located in
markets with high growth potential for large national and international
companies and other quality regional and local firms. Our industrial and
suburban office development focuses on business parks and mixed-use
developments suitable for multiple projects on a single site where we can
create and control the business environment. These business parks and mixed-use
developments often include restaurants and other amenities, which we believe
will create an atmosphere that is particularly efficient and desirable. Our
retail development focuses on lifestyle, community and neighborhood centers in
our existing markets and is developed primarily for held-for-sale
opportunities. In 2004, we executed a new initiative with a prominent
healthcare real estate developer to jointly develop, construct and lease medical
office and related healthcare facilities on a merchant building basis. As a
fully integrated real estate company, we are able to arrange for or provide to
our industrial, office, medical and retail customers not only well located and
well maintained facilities, but also additional services such as build-to-suit
construction, tenant finish construction, and expansion flexibility.

All of our properties are
located in areas that include competitive properties. Institutional investors,
other REITs or local real estate operators generally own such properties;
however, no single competitor or small group of competitors is dominant in our
current markets. The supply and demand of similar available rental properties
may affect the rental rates we will receive on our properties.

Financing
Strategy

We seek to maintain a
well-balanced, conservative and flexible capital structure by: (i) extending
and sequencing the maturity dates of debt; (ii) borrowing primarily at
fixed rates by targeting a variable rate component of total debt less than 20%;
(iii) pursuing current and future long-term debt financings and
refinancing on an unsecured basis;  (iv) maintaining
conservative debt service and fixed charge coverage ratios; and (v) issuing
attractively priced perpetual preferred shares for 5-10% of our total capital
structure. Management believes that these strategies have enabled and should
continue to enable us to favorably access capital markets for our long-term
requirements such as debt refinancing and financing development and
acquisitions of additional rental properties. In addition, as discussed under
Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations,” we have a $500 million unsecured line of credit
available for short-term fundings of development and acquisition of additional
rental properties. In January 2006, the capacity of this line was
increased to $1.0 billion. Further, we pursue favorable opportunities to
dispose of assets that no longer meet our long-term investment criteria and
recycle the proceeds into new investments that we believe have excellent
long-term growth prospects. Our debt to total market capitalization ratio
(total market capitalization is defined as the total market value of all
outstanding common and preferred shares and units of limited partnership
interest (“Units”) in DRLP plus


outstanding indebtedness)
at December 31, 2005 was 31.8%. Our ratio of earnings to debt service and
ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the year ended December 31, 2005
were 1.78x and 2.08x, respectively. In computing the ratio of earnings to debt
service, earnings have been calculated by adding interest expense (excluding
amortization of debt issuance costs) to income from continuing operations, less
preferred dividends, and minority interest in earnings of DRLP. Debt service
consists of interest expense and recurring principal amortization (excluding
maturities) and excludes amortization of debt issuance costs. In computing the
ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings have been calculated by adding
interest expense to income from continuing operations and minority interest in
earnings of DRLP. Fixed charges consist of interest costs, whether expensed or
capitalized, the interest component of rental expense and amortization of debt
issuance costs.

Corporate
Governance

Since our inception, we
not only have strived to be a top-performer operationally, but also to lead in
issues important to investors such as disclosure and corporate governance. Our
system of governance reinforces this commitment. Summarized below are the
highlights of our Corporate Governance initiatives.

Our Code of Conduct (which applies to all Directors and employees,
including the Chief Executive Officer and senior financial officers) and the
Corporate Governance Guidelines are available in the investor
information/corporate governance section of our website at
www.dukerealty.com. A copy of these documents may also be obtained without
charge by writing to Duke Realty Corporation, 600 East 96th Street, Suite 100,
Indianapolis, Indiana 46240, Attention: Investor Relations.


Other

For additional
information regarding our investments and operations, see Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and
Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For additional
information about our business segments, see Item 8, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.”

Available
Information and Exchange Certifications

In addition to this
Annual Report, we file quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and
other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). All
documents that are filed with the SEC are available free of charge on our
corporate website, which is www.dukerealty.com. You may also read and copy any
document filed at the public reference facilities of the SEC at 450 Fifth
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 25049. Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for
further information about the public reference facilities. These documents also
may be accessed through the SEC’s electronic data gathering, analysis and
retrieval system (“EDGAR”) via electronic means, including the SEC’s home page on
the Internet (http://www.sec.gov). In addition, since some of our securities
are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, you may read SEC filings at the
offices of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York
10005.

The New York Stock
Exchange (“NYSE”) requires that the Chief Executive Officer of each listed
company certify annually to the NYSE that he or she is not aware of any
violation by the company of NYSE corporate governance listing standards as of
the date of such certification. We submitted the certification of our Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer, Dennis D. Oklak, with our 2005 Annual Written
Affirmation to the NYSE on March 27, 2005.

We included the
certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer
of the Company required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
and related rules, relating to the quality of the Company’s public disclosure,
in this report as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2.

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

Our operations involve
various risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations, cash flows, ability to pay distribution on our common stock and the
market price of our common stock. In addition to the other information
contained in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following
risk factors in evaluating an investment in our securities.

If
we were to cease to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we and our
shareholders would lose significant tax benefits.

We intend to continue to
operate so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust (a “REIT”) under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Qualification as a REIT
provides significant tax advantages to us and our shareholders. However, in
order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy numerous
requirements established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for
which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations.
Satisfaction of these requirements also depends on various factual
circumstances not entirely within our control. The fact that we hold our assets
through an operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the
application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake
could jeopardize our REIT status. Although we believe that we can continue to
operate so as to qualify as a REIT, we cannot offer any assurance that we can
continue to do so or that legislation, new regulations, administrative
interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the
qualification requirements or the federal income tax consequences of
qualification. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it
would have the following effects:


•

We would not be allowed a deduction
for distributions to shareholders and would be subject to federal income tax
(including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at
regular corporate rates;

•

Unless we were entitled to relief
under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as
a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to
qualify as a REIT;

•

Our net earnings available for
investment or distribution to our shareholders would decrease due to the
additional tax liability for the year or years involved; and

•

We would no longer be required to make
any distributions to shareholders in order to qualify as a REIT.

As such, failure to
qualify as a REIT would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value
of our securities.

Real
estate investment trust distribution requirements limit the amount of cash we
will have available for other business purposes, including amounts that we need
to fund our future growth.

To maintain our
qualification as a REIT under the Code, we must annually distribute to our
shareholders at least 90% of our ordinary taxable income, excluding net capital
gains. We intend to continue to make distributions to our shareholders to
comply with the 90% distribution requirement. However, this requirement limits
our ability to accumulate capital for use for other business purposes. If we do
not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the distribution
requirements, we may have to borrow funds or sell properties on adverse terms
in order to meet the distribution requirements. If we fail to make a required
distribution, we would cease to qualify as a REIT.

U.S. federal income tax developments could
affect the desirability of investing in us for individual taxpayers.

In May 2003, federal legislation was enacted that reduced
the maximum tax rate for dividends payable to individual taxpayers generally
from 38.6% to 15% (from January 1, 2003 through 2008). However, dividends payable
by REITs are not eligible for this treatment, except in limited circumstances.
Although this legislation did not have a direct adverse effect on the taxation
of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable treatment for non-REIT
dividends could cause individual investors to consider investments in non-REIT
corporations as more attractive relative to an investment in us as a REIT.

U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs
and investments in REITs may change, which may result in the loss of our tax
benefits of operating as a REIT.

The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of a REIT and
an investment in a REIT may be modified by legislative, judicial or
administrative action at any time. Revisions in U.S. federal income tax laws
and interpretations of these laws could adversely affect us and the tax
consequences of an investment in our common shares.

Our
net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders could
decrease as a result of factors outside of our control.

Our business is subject
to the risks incident to the ownership and operation of commercial real estate,
many of which involve circumstances not within our control. Such risks include
the following:

•

Changes in the general economic
climate;

•

Increases in interest rates;

•

Local conditions such as oversupply of
property or a reduction in demand;

•

Competition for tenants;

•

Changes in market rental rates;

•

Oversupply or reduced demand for space
in the areas where our properties are located;

•

Delay or inability to collect rent
from tenants who are bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise unwilling or unable to
pay;

•

Difficulty in leasing or re-leasing
space quickly or on favorable terms;


•

Costs associated with periodically
renovating, repairing and reletting rental space;

•

Our ability to provide adequate
maintenance and insurance on our properties;

•

Our ability to control variable
operating costs;

•

Changes in government regulations;

•

Changes in interest rate levels;

•

The availability of financing on
favorable terms; and

•

Potential liability under, and changes
in, environmental, zoning, tax and other laws.

Further, a significant
portion of our costs, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance
costs and our debt service payments, are generally not reduced when
circumstances cause a decrease in cash flow from our properties.

Many
real estate costs are fixed, even if income from properties decreases.

Our financial results
depend on leasing space in our real estate to tenants on terms favorable to us.
Our income and funds available for distribution to our stockholders will
decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or we are
unable to lease properties on favorable terms. In addition, if a tenant does
not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without
delays and we may incur substantial legal costs. Costs associated with real
estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally are
not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment.

Our
real estate development activities are subject to risks particular to
development.

We intend to continue to
pursue development activities as opportunities arise. These development
activities generally require various government and other approvals. We may not
receive the necessary approvals. We are subject to the risks associated with
development activities. These risks include:

•

Unsuccessful development opportunities
could result in direct expenses to us;

•

Construction costs of a project may
exceed original estimates, possibly making the project less profitable than
originally estimated, or possibly unprofitable;

•

Time required to complete the
construction of a project or to lease up the completed project may be greater
than originally anticipated, thereby adversely affecting our cash flow and
liquidity;

•

Occupancy rates and rents of a
completed project may not be sufficient to make the project profitable; and

•

Favorable sources to fund our
development activities may not be available.

We are exposed to risks associated with
entering new markets.

We consider entering new
markets from time to time. The construction and/or acquisition of properties in
new markets involves risks, including the risk that the property will not
perform as anticipated and the risk that any actual costs for rehabilitation,
repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-construction
or pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. There is, and
it is expected that there will continue to be, significant competition for
investment opportunities that meet our investment criteria as well as risks
associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities, if necessary.

We
may be unsuccessful in operating completed real estate projects.

We face the risk that the
real estate projects we develop or acquire will not perform in accordance with
our expectations. This risk exists because of factors such as the following:

•

Prices paid for acquired facilities
are based upon a series of market judgments; and

•

Costs of any improvements required to
bring an acquired facility up to standards to establish the market position
intended for that facility might exceed budgeted costs.

Further, we can give no
assurance that acquisition targets meeting our guidelines for quality and yield
will be available when we seek them.


We
are exposed to the risks of defaults by tenants.

Any of our tenants may
experience a downturn in their businesses that may weaken their financial
condition. In the event of default or the insolvency of a significant number of
our tenants, we may experience a substantial loss of rental revenue and/or delays
in collecting rent and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as
landlord. If a tenant files for bankruptcy protection, a court could allow the
tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our income and distributable
cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our tenants
became unable to meet their obligations to us, became insolvent or declared
bankruptcy.

We
may be unable to renew leases or relet space.

When our tenants decide
not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet
the space. Even if our tenants do renew or we are able to relet the space, the
terms of renewal or reletting (including the cost of renovations, if necessary)
may be less favorable than current lease terms. If we are unable to promptly
renew the leases or relet the space, or if the rental rates upon such renewal
or reletting are significantly lower than current rates, then our income and
distributable cash flow would be adversely affected, especially if we were
unable to lease a significant amount of the space vacated by tenants in our
properties.

Our
insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate.

We maintain comprehensive
insurance on each of our facilities, including property, liability, fire, flood
and extended coverage. We believe this coverage is of the type and amount
customarily obtained for real property. However, there are certain types of
losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and
floods or acts of war or terrorism that may be uninsurable or not economically
insurable. We use our discretion when determining amounts, coverage limits and
deductibles for insurance. These terms are determined based on retaining an
acceptable level of risk at a reasonable cost. This may result in insurance
coverage that in the event of a substantial loss would not be sufficient to pay
the full current market value or current replacement cost of our lost
investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental
considerations and other factors also may make it unfeasible to use insurance
proceeds to replace a facility after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under
such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive may not be adequate to
restore our economic position in a property. If an insured loss occurred, we
could lose both our investment in and anticipated profits and cash flow from a
property, and we would continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or
other obligations related to the property. Although we believe our insurance is
with highly rated providers, we are also subject to the risk that such
providers may be unwilling or unable to pay our claims when made.

Acquired
properties may expose us to unknown liability.

From time to time, we may
acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with
only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities.  As a result, if a liability were asserted
against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay
substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our
results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to
acquired properties might include:

•

liabilities
for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination;

•

claims by
tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties;

•

liabilities
incurred in the ordinary course of business; and

•

claims for
indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified
by the former owners of the properties.


We
could be exposed to significant environmental liabilities as a result of
conditions of which we currently are not aware.

As an owner and operator
of real property, we may be liable under various federal, state and local laws
for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances
released on or in our property. Such laws often impose liability without regard
to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release
of the hazardous substances. In addition, we could have greater difficulty in
selling real estate on which hazardous substances were present or in obtaining
borrowings using such real estate as collateral. It is our general policy to have
Phase I environmental audits performed for all of our properties and land by
qualified environmental consultants. These Phase I environmental audits have
not revealed any environmental liability that would have a material adverse
effect on our business. However, a Phase I environmental audit does not involve
invasive procedures such as soil sampling or ground water analysis, and we
cannot be sure that the Phase I environmental audits did not fail to reveal a
significant environmental liability or that a prior owner did not create a
material environmental condition on our properties or land which has not yet
been discovered. We could also incur environmental liability as a result of
future uses or conditions of such real estate or changes in applicable environmental
laws.

Certain
of our officers and directors hold units in our operating partnership and may
not have the same interests as our shareholders with regard to certain tax
matters.

Certain of our officers
and directors own limited partnership units in our operating partnership, Duke
Realty Limited Partnership. Owners of limited partnership units may suffer
adverse tax consequences upon the sale of certain of our properties, the
refinancing of debt related to those properties or in the event we are the
subject of a tender offer or merger. As such, owners of limited partnership
units, including certain of our officers and directors, may have different
objectives regarding the appropriateness of the pricing and timing of these
transactions. Though we are the sole general partner of the operating
partnership and have the exclusive authority to sell all of our wholly-owned
properties or to refinance such properties, officers and directors who hold
limited partnership units may influence us not to sell or refinance certain
properties even if such sale may be financially advantageous to our
shareholders. Adverse tax consequences may also influence the decisions of
these officers and directors in the event we are the subject of a tender offer
or merger.

We
do not have exclusive control over our joint venture investments.

We have interests in
joint ventures and partnerships and may in the future conduct business through
joint ventures and partnerships. These investments involve risks that are not
present in our wholly-owned projects. For example, co-investors or partners may
become bankrupt or have business interests or goals inconsistent with ours.
Further, our co-investors or partners may be in a position to take action
contrary to our instructions and our interests, including action that may
jeopardize our qualification as a REIT.

Our
use of debt financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition.

We are subject to the
risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash
flow will be insufficient to meet required principal and interest payments and
the risk that we will be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness, or that
the terms of such refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our
existing indebtedness. If our debt cannot be paid, refinanced or extended, we
may not be able to make distributions to shareholders at expected levels or at
all. Further, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of a
refinancing result in higher interest rates or other restrictive financial
covenants upon the refinancing, then such refinancing would adversely affect
our cash flow and funds available for operation, development and distribution.
We are also subject to financial covenants under our existing debt instruments.
Should we fail to comply with the covenants in our existing debt instruments,
then we would not only be in breach under the applicable debt instruments but
we would also likely be unable to borrow any further amounts under these instruments,
which could adversely affect our ability to fund operations. We also have
incurred and may incur in the future indebtedness that bears interest at
variable rates. Thus, as market interest rates increase, so will our debt
expense, affecting our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to
shareholders.


We
are subject to various financial covenants under existing credit agreements.

The terms of our various
credit agreements and other indebtedness require that we comply with a number
of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service
coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. These
covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these
covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the
applicable indebtedness even if we have satisfied our payment obligations.  If we are unable to refinance our
indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our
distributable cash flow would be adversely affected.

We
are subject to certain provisions that could discourage change-of-control
transactions, which may reduce the likelihood of our shareholders receiving a
control premium for their shares.

Indiana anti-takeover
legislation and certain provisions in our governing documents, as we discuss
below, may discourage potential acquirers from pursuing a change-of-control
transaction with us. As a result, our shareholders may be less likely to receive
a control premium for their shares.

Unissued
Preferred Stock.

Our charter permits our board of
directors to classify unissued preferred stock by setting the rights and
preferences of the shares at the time of issuance. This power enables our board
to adopt a shareholder rights plan, also known as a poison pill. Although we
have repealed our previously existing poison pill and our current board of
directors has adopted a policy not to issue preferred stock as an anti-takeover
measure, our board can change this policy at any time. The adoption of a poison
pill would discourage a potential bidder from acquiring a significant position
in the company without the approval of our board.

Business-Combination
Provisions of Indiana Law.

We have not opted out
of the business-combination provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law.
As a result, potential bidders may have to negotiate with our board of
directors before acquiring 10% of our stock. Without securing board approval of
the proposed business combination before crossing the 10% ownership threshold,
a bidder would not be permitted to complete a business combination for five
years after becoming a 10% shareholder. Even after the five-year period, a
business combination with the significant shareholder would require a “fair
price” as defined in the Indiana Business Corporation Law or the approval of a
majority of the disinterested shareholders.

Control-Share-Acquisition
Provisions of Indiana Law.

We have not opted out of the
provisions of the Indiana Business Corporation Law regarding acquisitions of
control shares. Therefore, those who acquire a significant block (at least 20%)
of our shares may only vote a portion of their shares unless our other
shareholders vote to accord full voting rights to the acquiring person.
Moreover, if the other shareholders vote to give full voting rights with
respect to the control shares and the acquiring person has acquired a majority
of our outstanding shares, the other shareholders would be entitled to special
dissenters’ rights.

Supermajority
Voting Provisions.

Our charter prohibits business
combinations or significant disposition transactions with a holder of 10% of
our shares unless:

•

The holders of 80% of our outstanding
shares of capital stock approve the transaction;

•

The transaction has been approved by
three-fourths of those directors who served on the board before the shareholder
became a 10% owner; or

•

The significant shareholder complies
with the “fair price” provisions of our charter.

Among the transactions with
large shareholders requiring the supermajority shareholder approval are
dispositions of assets with a value of $1,000,000 and business combinations.

Operating
Partnership Provisions.

The limited partnership
agreement of the Operating Partnership contains provisions that could
discourage change-of-control transactions, including a requirement that holders
of at least 90% of the outstanding partnership units held by us and other unit
holders approve:


•

Any voluntary sale, exchange, merger,
consolidation or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of
the Operating Partnership in one or more transactions other than a disposition
occurring upon a financing or refinancing of the Operating Partnership;

•

Our merger, consolidation or other
business combination with another entity unless after the transaction
substantially all of the assets of the surviving entity are contributed to the
Operating Partnership in exchange for units;

•

Our transfer of our interests in the
Operating Partnership other than to one of our wholly owned subsidiaries; and

•

Any reclassification or
recapitalization or change of outstanding shares of our common stock other than
certain changes in par value, stock splits, stock dividends or combinations.

We are
dependent on key personnel.

Our executive officers
and other senior officers have a significant role in the success of our
Company. Our ability to retain our management group or to attract suitable
replacements should any members of the management group leave our Company is
dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of
services from key members of the management group or a limitation in their
availability could adversely impact our financial condition and cash flow.
Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments

We
have no unresolved

comments with
the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.

Item 2.  Properties

Product
Review

As of December 31,
2005, we own an interest in a diversified portfolio of 690 commercial
properties encompassing over 105.4 million net rentable square feet (including
26 properties comprising 6.8 million square feet under development) and
approximately 4,800 acres of land for future development.

Industrial Properties:

We
own interests in 416 industrial properties encompassing approximately 73.6
million square feet (70% of total square feet) more specifically described as
follows:

•

Bulk Warehouses –

Industrial
warehouse/distribution buildings with clear ceiling heights of 20 feet or more.
We own 330 buildings totaling more than 68.1 million square feet of such
properties.

•

Service Centers –

Also known as flex buildings or light industrial, this product type has 12-18
foot clear ceiling heights and a combination of drive-up and dock-height
loading access. We own 86 buildings totaling approximately 5.5 million square
feet of such properties.

Office Properties:

We own interests in 268 office buildings
totaling more than 31.2 million square feet (30% of total square feet). These
properties include primarily suburban office properties.

Retail Properties:

We own interests in 6 retail projects
totaling more than 600,000 square feet (less than 1% of total square feet).
These properties include primarily community shopping centers.

Land:

We own or control approximately
4,800 acres of land located primarily in existing business parks. The land is
ready for immediate use and is unencumbered. Approximately 69 million square
feet of additional space can be developed on these sites and substantially all
of the land is zoned for either office, industrial or retail development.

Service Operations:

We
provide property and asset management, development, leasing and construction
services to third party owners in addition to our own properties. Our current
property management base for third parties includes more than 6.7 million
square feet of properties serving approximately 120 tenants.


Property Descriptions

The following schedule represents the geographic highlights of
properties in our primary markets.


Duke
Realty Corporation

Geographic
Highlights

In
Service Properties as of December 31, 2005

(1) Includes all wholly owned and joint venture
projects shown at 100% as of report date .

(2) Represents the average annual rental property
revenue due from tenants in occupancy as of the date of this report, excluding
additional rent due as operating expense reimbursements, landlord allowances
for operating expenses and percentage rents. 
Joint Venture properties are shown at the Company’s ownership
percentage.

(3) Represents properties not located in the
Company’s primary markets.  These
properties are located in similar midwest or southeast markets.

Note: Excludes buildings that are in the held for sale
portfolio.


Item
3.  Legal Proceedings

We are not subject to any material pending
legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation arising in the
ordinary course of business. Our management expects that these ordinary routine
legal proceedings will be covered by insurance and does not expect these legal
proceedings to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations, or liquidity.

Item
4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of
Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the
quarter ended December 31, 2005.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Robert M. Chapman,
age 52

.  Mr. Chapman
has served as Senior Executive Vice President, Real Estate Operations, since November 2003.
From 1999 through November 2003, Mr. Chapman served in various real
estate investment and operating positions within the Company.

Matthew A. Cohoat,
age 46

. Mr. Cohoat was named Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer on January 1, 2004. From 1990
through 2003, Mr. Cohoat held various positions in financial areas of the
Company.

James B. Connor,
age 47.

Mr. Connor has served as Regional Executive
Vice President for our Chicago Region since December 2003. Previously, Mr. Connor
served as Senior Vice President responsible for our Chicago Operations since
joining us in 1998.

Howard L. Feinsand,
age 58

.

Mr. Feinsand has served as our Executive
Vice President and General Counsel since 1999. Mr. Feinsand served on our
Board of Directors from 1988 to January 2003.

Donald J. Hunter,
age 46.

Mr. Hunter
was named Executive Vice President, Indianapolis Region, in 2005. From 1988 to
2005, Mr. Hunter served in various capacities, most recently as Senior
Vice President, Columbus Operations.

Steven R. Kennedy,
age


.
Mr. Kennedy was named Executive Vice President, Construction on January 1,
2004. From 1986 until 2004, he served in various capacities in the construction
group, most recently as Senior Vice President.

Dennis D. Oklak,
age 52

.  Mr. Oklak
was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company in April 2005.
He served as President and Chief Executive Officer from April 2004 to April 2005.
He was Co-Chief Operating Officer from April 2002 through January 2003,
at which time he was named President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Oklak
assumed the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative
Officer in 1997. From 1986 through 1997, Mr. Oklak served in various
financial positions in the Company.

Christopher L.
Seger, age 38.

Mr. Seger was appointed Executive
Vice President, National Development/Construction in December 2003. From
2001 to 2003, Mr. Seger was Senior Vice President of our Florida
Group.  From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Seger
was Senior Vice President of our Indiana Office Group.

PART II

Item
5.  Market for the Registrant’s Common
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our common shares are listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol “DRE.” The following table sets forth the high and low sales
prices of the common stock for the periods indicated and the dividend paid per
share during each such period. Comparable cash dividends are expected in the
future. As of March 1, 2006, there were 11,548 record holders of common
shares.


On January 25, 2006, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of
$0.47 per share, payable on February 28, 2006, to common shareholders of
record on February 14, 2006.

A summary of the tax characterization of the dividends paid per common
share for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 follows:

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

From time to time, we repurchase our common shares under a $750 million
share repurchase program that initially was approved by the board of directors
and publicly announced in October 2001 (the “Repurchase Program”).   In July 2005, the Board of Directors
authorized management to purchase up to $750 million of common shares pursuant
to this plan. Under the Repurchase Program, we also execute share repurchases
on an ongoing basis associated with certain employee elections under our
compensation and benefit programs.

The following table shows the share repurchase activity for each of the
three months in the quarter ended December 31, 2005:

(1) Includes 23,739 common shares repurchased under our Employee
Stock Purchase Plan, 46,946 shares swapped to pay the exercise price of stock
options, 2,543 common shares repurchased through a Rabbi Trust under our
Executives’ Deferred Compensation Plan and 6,062,475 common shares repurchased
under our Share Repurchase Plan.

(2) The number of common shares that may yet be
repurchased in the open market to fund shares purchased under our Employee
Stock Purchase Plan was 223,388 as of December 31, 2005, and approximately
$452.9 million under our Share Repurchase Plan.

Item
6.  Selected Financial

Data

The following sets forth selected financial and operating information
on a historical basis for each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31,
2005. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and
Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in this Form 10-K
(in thousands, except per share amounts):


(1) Funds From Operations (“FFO”) is used by industry analysts and
investors as a supplemental operating performance measure of an equity real
estate investment trust (“REIT”). FFO is calculated in accordance with the
definition that was adopted by the Board of Governors of the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”). FFO, as defined by
NAREIT, represents net income (loss) determined in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”),
excluding extraordinary items as defined under GAAP and gains or losses from
sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets, plus certain
non-cash items such as real estate asset depreciation and amortization, and
after similar adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with
GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes
predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen
or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have
considered the presentation of operating results for real estate companies that
use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Thus, NAREIT
created FFO as a supplemental measure of REIT operating performance that
excludes historical cost depreciation, among other items, from GAAP net income.
Management believes that the use of FFO, combined with the required primary
GAAP presentations, has improved the understanding of operating results of
REITs among the investing public and has made comparisons of REIT operating
results more meaningful. Management considers FFO to be a useful measure for
reviewing comparative operating and financial performance (although FFO should
be reviewed in conjunction with net income which remains the primary measure of
performance) because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of
previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate
asset depreciation and amortization, FFO assists in comparing the operating
performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to
different companies.

See reconciliation of FFO to GAAP net income under Year in Review section of
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.


Item
7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Business Overview

We are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment
trust that began operations through a related entity in 1972. As of December 31,
2005, we:

•

Owned or jointly controlled 690
industrial, office and retail properties (including properties under
development), consisting of over 105.4 million square feet primarily located in
13 operating platforms; and

•

Owned or jointly controlled
approximately 4,800 acres of land with an estimated future development
potential of approximately 69 million square feet of industrial, office and
retail properties.

We provide the following services for our properties and for certain
properties owned by third parties and joint ventures:

•

Property leasing;

•

Property management;

•

Construction;

•

Development; and

•

Other tenant-related services.

Management
Philosophy and Priorities

Our key business and
financial strategies for the future include the following:

•

Our business objective is to increase
Funds From Operations (“FFO”) by (i) maintaining and increasing property
occupancy and rental rates through the management of our portfolio of existing
properties; (ii) developing and acquiring new properties for rental
operations in our existing markets; (iii) expanding geographically by
acquiring and developing properties in new markets; (iv) using our
construction expertise to act as a general contractor in our existing markets
and other domestic markets on a fee basis; (v) developing properties in
our existing markets and other markets which we will sell through our merchant
building development program and (vi) providing a full line of real estate
services to our tenants and to third parties.

See
the Year in Review section below for further explanation and definition of
FFO.

•

Our financing strategy is to actively
manage the components of our capital structure including common and preferred
equity and debt to maintain a conservatively leveraged balance sheet and
investment grade ratings from our credit rating agencies. This strategy
provides us with the financial flexibility to fund both development and
acquisition opportunities. We seek to maintain a well-balanced, conservative and
flexible capital structure by: (i) extending and sequencing the maturity
dates of debt; (ii) borrowing primarily at fixed rates by targeting a
variable rate component of total debt less than 20%; (iii) pursuing
current and future long-term debt financings and refinancing on an unsecured
basis;  (iv) maintaining
conservative debt service and fixed charge coverage ratios; and (v) issuing
attractively priced perpetual preferred stock for 5-10% of our total capital
structure.

Year in Review

During 2005, we emerged from economic and market challenges that had
affected the entire real estate industry to complete a successful year that
included improving our portfolio of held for investment buildings through our
capital recycling program, increasing our development pipeline to over double
that of 2004, and initiating geographic expansion that we anticipate will
provide future earnings growth. As a result of these accomplishments, we
achieved steady operating results while maintaining a strong balance sheet.

Net income available for common shareholders for the year ended December 31,
2005, was $309.2 million, or $2.17 per share (diluted), compared to net income
of $151.3 million, or $1.06 per share (diluted) for the year


ended 2004. The increase is primarily attributable to the sale of a
portfolio of 212 real estate properties, consisting of 14.1 million square feet
of primarily light distribution and service center properties (the “Industrial
Portfolio Sale”). The net book gain on this sale was approximately $201.5
million. See additional discussion of the transaction below. Through increased
leasing activity, we achieved a growth in rental revenues in 2005 over 2004 as
our in-service portfolio year-end occupancy increased from 90.9% at the end of
2004 to 92.5% at the end of 2005. We also experienced an increase in our
development and construction of new properties for both owned investments and
third party construction projects in 2005 as compared to 2004.

As an important performance metric for us as a real estate company, FFO
available to common shareholders totaled $341.2 million for the year ended December 31,
2005, compared to $352.5 million for the same period in 2004.  We anticipated a short-term decrease in FFO
as a result of the Industrial Portfolio Sale noted above.  FFO is used by industry analysts and
investors as a supplemental operating performance measure of an equity real
estate investment trust (“REIT”). FFO is calculated in accordance with the definition
that was adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real
Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”). FFO, as defined by NAREIT, represents net
income (loss) determined in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), excluding extraordinary
items as defined under GAAP and gains or losses from sales of previously
depreciated operating real estate assets, plus certain non-cash items such as
real estate asset depreciation and amortization, and after similar adjustments
for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with
GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes
predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen
or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have
considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use
historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Thus, NAREIT
created FFO as a supplemental measure of REIT operating performance that
excludes historical cost depreciation, among other items, from GAAP net income.
Management believes that the use of FFO, combined with the required primary GAAP
presentations, improves the understanding of operating results of REITs among
the investing public and makes comparisons of REIT operating results more
meaningful. Management considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing
comparative operating and financial performance (although FFO should be
reviewed in conjunction with net income which remains the primary measure of
performance) because by excluding gains or losses related to sales of
previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate
asset depreciation and amortization, FFO assists in comparing the operating
performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to
different companies.

The following table
summarizes the calculation of FFO for the years ended December 31 (in
thousands):

Throughout 2005, we continued to maintain a conservative balance sheet
and investment grade debt ratings from Moody’s (Baa1), Standard &
Poors (BBB+) and Fitch (BBB+). Our debt to total market capitalization ratio
(total market capitalization is defined as the total market value of all
outstanding common and preferred shares and units of limited partner interest in
our operating partnership plus outstanding indebtedness) of 31.8% at December 31,
2005 compared to 29.5% at December 31, 2004 continues to provide us
financial flexibility to fund new investments.


Highlights of our debt
financing activity in 2005 are as follows:

•

In January 2005, we retired a
$65.0 million variable-rate term loan.

•

In March 2005, we retired $100.0
million of 6.875% senior unsecured debt that matured.

•

In May 2005, we obtained a $400.0
million variable rate term loan. The proceeds from this term loan were used to
finance a property portfolio acquisition. The loan was paid off in September 2005
with proceeds from the Industrial Portfolio Sale.

•

In September 2005, we retired
$100.0 million of 7.375% corporate unsecured debt that matured.

On the equity side of our
balance sheet, we repurchased approximately 9 million common shares totaling
nearly $300 million during the third and fourth quarters of 2005. With the
added liquidity from the Industrial Portfolio Sale, we pursued a prudent
repurchase program to supplement our other value creation activities.

In addition to steady
operating performance and prudent balance sheet management during 2005, we
continued to effectively execute our capital recycling program and began
several key initiatives and projects to leverage our development and
construction capabilities as follows:

•

We disposed of over $1.1 billion of
older, non-strategic, held for investment properties and used the proceeds to
help fund over $300 million of acquisitions and pay down our operating line of
credit. Most significantly, we completed the Industrial Portfolio Sale in September 2005
receiving net proceeds of $955 million. This portfolio consisted of over 14
million square feet comprised of 212 properties across eight Duke markets as
well as 50 acres of undeveloped land. Portions of the proceeds were used to pay
down $423 million of outstanding debt on our $500 million unsecured line of
credit and $400 million term loan. This transaction was a continuation of our
long-term strategy of recycling assets into higher yielding new developments.
Within the industrial side of our business, it also positions our ownership
focus toward newly developed bulk warehouse properties.

•

We completed over $300 million of
acquisitions in 2005, including a $257 million suburban office portfolio in our
Chicago market.  The portfolio consisted
of five office buildings totaling 1.4 million square feet.

•

We increased our investment in undeveloped
land to provide greater opportunities to use our development and construction
expertise in the improving economic cycle. Throughout 2005, we completed land
acquisitions totaling over $135 million. The new land positions include
industrial, office and retail positions in Florida where we intend to develop a
retail lifestyle center with a joint venture partner and continue office and
industrial development in Broward County.

•

Our National Development and
Construction Group, which was formed in 2004 to pursue development and
construction opportunities with companies that have a national presence
including those outside our core markets, completed a successful year that
included the awarding of a 431,000 square foot office building development in
Buffalo, New York. The project is pre-leased to a single tenant with
construction expected to be completed in mid-2007.

•

The National Development and
Construction Group also experienced significant growth of its healthcare
business. In 2004, we created a strategic agreement with Bremner Healthcare, a
developer of medical office and healthcare related facilities, to jointly
develop and sell medical facilities throughout the United States. Bremner
develops, leases and manages the facilities while we provide construction
financing and general contractor services. We share 50/50 in the profits upon
sale of the projects. In 2005, we completed our first project in this venture,
a medical office building in Indianapolis, Indiana that was sold in September 2005.
As of December 31, 2005, we have six additional healthcare development
projects underway, totaling nearly 470,000 square feet.

•

We announced our intentions to enter
the Phoenix, Arizona and Houston, Texas markets. We believe these markets
provide significant growth opportunities in the future and have similar
demographics and components that our existing markets provide.


•

Finally, we will continue to develop
long-term investment assets to be held in our portfolio, develop assets to be
sold upon completion and perform third party construction projects. With nearly
$800 million in our development pipeline at December 31, 2005, we are
encouraged about the long-term growth opportunities in our business.

Significant
2006 Activity

We have continued to
build on our momentum from 2005 by announcing the following significant
transactions in early 2006:

•

In January 2006, we announced the
acquisition of approximately 5.1 million square feet of bulk industrial
properties located at the Port of Savannah for a total purchase price of
approximately $194.1 million. The portfolio consists of 18 buildings and is
located near one of the fastest growing ports in the country. The properties
are 100% leased with a weighted average lease term of 7.5 years. This
transaction makes us the largest industrial property owner in the Savannah area
and complements our industrial holdings across the Southeast. In addition, we
have the option to acquire future completed development projects on 400 acres
of land in the same market.

•

In January 2006, we issued $184
million of 6.95% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, which
replaced our $75 million 8.45% Series I Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Stock that we redeemed in February 2006.

•

In January 2006, we renewed our
unsecured revolving credit facility. The new facility provides borrowing
capacity up to $1 billion and, subject to certain conditions, may be increased
to $1.3 billion. Under the new facility, which replaces the previous unsecured
line of credit agreement, we reduced the interest rate by 7.5 basis points to
LIBOR plus 52.5 basis points, increased the borrowing capacity by $500 million
and extended the maturity date to January 25, 2010.

•

In February 2006, we issued
$125.0 million of 5.5% senior notes due 2016.

•

In February 2006, we acquired 27
suburban office and light industrial buildings, encompassing more than 2.3
million square feet from The Mark Winkler Company for $619.0 million. The 27
buildings are part of a 32 building portfolio located in three primary
submarkets in Northern Virginia. We will close on the remaining five buildings
in the portfolio throughout the first and second quarters of 2006. In addition
to the 27 buildings we also closed on approximately 166 acres of undeveloped
land located in major business parks that can support the future development of
approximately 3.7 million square feet of office and industrial buildings. In
connection with the acquisition, we obtained a $700 million secured term loan priced
at LIBOR plus 52.5 basis points with a scheduled maturity date of September 2006.
Subject to Lender’s approval, the maturity date may be extended to March 2007.

Key
Performance Indicators

Our operating results
depend primarily upon rental income from our office, industrial and retail
properties (“Rental Operations”). The following highlights the areas of Rental
Operations that we consider critical for future revenue growth. All square
footage totals and occupancy percentages reflect both wholly-owned properties
and properties in joint ventures.

Occupancy Analysis:

As discussed
above, our ability to maintain occupancy rates is a principal driver of our
results of operations. The following table sets forth occupancy information
regarding our in-service portfolio of rental properties as of December 31,
2005 and 2004 (in thousands, except percentage data):


The overall improvement
in occupancy was driven by a number of factors, but the most significant factor
was the volume of leasing activity for the year. We experienced significant
activity in the fourth quarter of 2005 when we signed nearly 9.7 million square
feet of new leases and renewals, which was the highest quarterly leasing
activity in our history. Our industrial and office product types both showed
improvement in occupancy and activity in our markets was strong in 2005.

Lease Expiration and Renewals:

Our
ability to maintain and grow occupancy rates primarily depends upon our
continuing ability to re-lease expiring space. The following table reflects our
in-service lease expiration schedule by property type as of December 31,
2005. The table indicates square footage and annualized net effective rents
(based on December 2005 rental revenue) under expiring leases (in
thousands, except percentage data):

We
renewed 74.3% and 73.9% of our leases up for renewal totaling approximately
10.0 million and 9.9 million square feet in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our
lease renewal percentages over the past three years have remained relatively
consistent at a 70-75% success rate. We do not expect this renewal percentage
in 2006 to differ from that experienced in 2005.

The
average term of renewals increased to 4.3 years in 2005 from 3.8 years in 2004.
The increase in the average term is due to competitive market conditions with
tenants seeking longer leases at attractive rates.

Future Development:

Another source of growth in earnings is the development
of additional properties. These properties should provide future earnings
through Service Operations income upon sale or from Rental Operations growth as
they are placed in service. We had 9.0 million square feet of property under
development with total estimated costs of $658.7 million at December 31,
2005, compared to 4.2 million square feet and total costs of $194.9 million at December 31,
2004. We have increased our development pipeline significantly through 2005 as
we focus on the development side of our business in 2006. We have assessed our
markets and determined that between growing demand and the pricing of
acquisitions, we can utilize our development expertise and achieve better
returns on our own developments. The significant leasing activity experienced
in the fourth quarter of 2005 as noted above has provided momentum heading into
2006.

The
following table summarizes our properties under development as of December 31,
2005 (in thousands, except percentage data):


Acquisition and Disposition
Activity:

In
2005, we continued our capital recycling program by disposing over $1.1 billion
of older, non-strategic properties. Most significantly, we completed the
Industrial Portfolio Sale for nearly $980 million. The Industrial Portfolio
Sale consisted of over 14 million square feet of primarily light distribution
and service center properties comprised of 212 properties across eight of our
markets. The Industrial Portfolio Sale was a continuation of our strategy of
recycling assets into higher yielding new developments. Within the industrial
side of our business, it also positions our ownership focus toward newly
developed bulk warehouse properties. See further discussion of the Industrial
Portfolio Sale in the Year in Review section. As we focus on development in
2006, we will continue to dispose of older assets, but do not anticipate the
activity to be comparable to the dispositions activity of 2005.

On the acquisitions side, we completed over
$300 million of acquisitions in 2005, including a $257 million suburban office
portfolio in our Chicago market. The portfolio consists of five office
buildings totaling 1.4 million square feet.

Results of Operations

A summary of our operating results and property statistics for each of
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, follows (in
thousands, except number of properties and per share data):

Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2005 to
Year Ended December 31, 2004

Rental Income from Continuing Operations

Overall, rental income from continuing operations
increased from $619.6 million in 2004 to $676.6 million in 2005. The following
table reconciles rental income from continuing operations by reportable segment
to total


reported rental income from continuing operations
for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (in thousands):

Both
of our reportable segments that comprise Rental Operations (office and
industrial) are within the real estate industry; however, the same economic and
industry conditions do not affect each segment in the same manner. The primary
causes of the increase in rental income from continuing operations, with
specific references to a particular segment when applicable, are summarized
below:

•

In
2005, we have acquired nine new properties and placed 17 development projects
in-service. These acquisitions and developments are the primary factor in the
$57.1 million overall increase in rental revenue for the year ended 2005,
compared to 2004.

The
nine property acquisitions provided revenues of $21.0 million. These
acquisitions totaled $307.5 million on 2.2 million square feet and were 86.5%
leased at December 31, 2005. Revenues from acquisitions that occurred in
2004 grew to $31.8 million in 2005 compared to $13.4 million in 2004.

Developments
placed in service in 2005 provided revenues of $5.8 million. Revenues from
developments placed in service in 2004 increased $9.9 million to $17.4 million
in 2005.

•

Our
in-service occupancy increased from 90.9% at December 31, 2004, to 92.5%
at December 31, 2005.

•

Rental
income includes lease termination fees. 
Lease termination fees relate to specific tenants who pay a fee to
terminate their lease obligations before the end of the contractual lease term.
Lease termination fees in 2005 continued to steadily decrease as a result of
improving market conditions. Lease termination fees decreased from $14.7
million in 2004 to $7.3 million in 2005.

Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Companies

Equity in earnings represents our ownership share of
net income from investments in unconsolidated companies. These joint ventures
generally own and operate rental properties and hold land for development.  These earnings increased from $21.6 million
in 2004 to $29.5 million in 2005. During the second quarter of 2005, one of our
ventures sold three buildings with our share of the net gain recorded through
equity in earnings totaling $11.1 million.

Rental Expenses and Real Estate Taxes

The following table reconciles rental expenses and real estate taxes by
reportable segment to our total reported amounts in the statement of operations
for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively (in
thousands):


Rental and real estate tax expenses for 2005, as compared
to 2004, have increased as a result of our 2004 and 2005 acquisitions as well
as our increase in occupancy. This increase in rental and real estate taxes
continues to be in line with our expectations.

Interest Expense

Interest expense increased from $109.9 million in 2004 to $120.4
million in 2005, as a result of increased debt levels and higher interest
rates. Since August 2004, we had the following debt issuances and redemptions:

•

In August 2004, we issued $250 million of 5.40%
unsecured notes due in 2014.

•

In December 2004, we issued $250 million of
unsecured floating rate debt at 26 basis points over LIBOR.

•

In March 2005, we paid off $100 million of senior
unsecured notes.

•

In May 2005, we obtained a $400 million term loan at
30 basis points over LIBOR. This loan was used to temporarily finance the
acquisition of five office properties located in our Chicago market.

•

In September 2005, we repaid the $400 million term
loan, as well as $100 million of corporate unsecured debt, with proceeds from
the Industrial Portfolio Sale.

•

We assumed approximately $40.7 million of secured
debt in conjunction with property acquisitions in August 2004 and June 2005.

Interest expense on our unsecured line of credit
totaled $6.2 million in 2005 compared to $6.1 million in 2004. We had $383
million outstanding on the facility at December 31, 2005.

Depreciation and Amortization Expense

Depreciation and amortization expense increased from $181.4 million in
2004 to $226.5 million in 2005 as a result of increased capital spending
associated with increased leasing, the additional basis resulting from
acquisition and development activity and the application of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 141,

Business Combinations

(“SFAS 141”) as described below. The
points below highlight the significant increase in depreciation and
amortization.

•

Depreciation
expense on tenant improvements increased by approximately $16.4 million.

•

Depreciation
expense on buildings increased by $16.6 million.

•

Lease
commission amortization expense increased by $1.6 million.

The amortization expense associated with acquired lease intangible
assets increased by approximately $10.5 million. The acquisitions were accounted
for in accordance with SFAS 141, which requires the allocation of a portion of
a property’s purchase price to intangible assets for leases acquired and
in-place at the closing date of the acquisition. These intangible assets are
amortized over the remaining life of the leases (generally 3-5 years) as
compared to the building basis portion of the acquisition, which is depreciated
over 40 years.

Service Operations

Service Operations primarily consist of our merchant building sales and
the leasing, management, construction and development services for joint
venture properties and properties owned by third parties. These operations are
heavily influenced by the current state of the economy as leasing and
management fees are dependent upon occupancy while construction and development
services rely on the expansion of business operations. Service Operations
earnings increased from $24.4 million in 2004 to $41.0 million in 2005. The
increase reflects higher construction volumes partially offset by increased
staffing costs for our expanded National Development and Construction group in
2005. Other factors impacting service operations are discussed below.

•

Our
merchant building development and sales program, whereby a building is
developed by us and then sold, is a significant component of construction and
development income. During 2005, we generated after tax gains of $19.0 million
from the sale of 10 properties compared to $16.5 million from the sale of six
properties in 2004. Profit margins on these types of building sales fluctuate
by sale depending on the type


of property being
sold, the strength of the underlying tenant and nature of the sale, such as a
pre-contracted purchase price for a primary tenant versus a sale on the open
market.

•

In
2005, we experienced an increase in our third party construction business as
evidenced by the increase in general contractor revenues in 2005 over 2004. We
achieved a slight increase in our profit margins during 2005, which reflects
improved pricing in certain markets and our ability to select more profitable
projects as resources are re-positioned to our increasing held-for-investment
development pipeline.

•

In
the first quarter of 2005, we recognized $2.7 million of a deferred gain
associated with the sale of our landscaping operations in 2001. The gain was
deferred as a result of future performance provisions contained in the original
sales agreement. As a result of contract renegotiations effective in the first
quarter of 2005, all future performance provisions were removed and the
deferred gain was recognized.

General and Administrative Expense

General and administrative expense increased from
$26.3 million in 2004 to $27.8 million in 2005. General and administrative
expenses are comprised of two components. The first is direct expenses that are
not attributable to specific assets such as legal fees, external audit fees,
marketing costs, investor relations expenses and other corporate overhead. The
second component is the unallocated overhead costs associated with the
operation of our owned properties and Service Operations, including
construction, leasing and maintenance operations. Overhead costs not allocated
to these operations are charged to general and administrative expenses. The
increase in general and administrative expenses is primarily the result of an
increase in payroll expenses associated with long-term compensation plans and
an increase in the number of employees to support our growth in our National Development
and Construction practice.

Other Income and Expenses

Earnings from the sale of land and ownership interests in
unconsolidated companies, net of impairment adjustments, are comprised of the
following amounts in 2005 and 2004, respectively (in thousands):

Gain on land sales is derived from sales of undeveloped land that we
own. We pursue opportunities to dispose of land in those markets with a high
concentration of undeveloped land and in those markets where the land no longer
meets our strategic development plans.

We recorded $258,000 and $424,000 of impairment charges associated with
contracts to sell land parcels for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. All parcels related to the $258,000 of impairment recorded in
2005 were sold during 2005. One of the parcels on which we recorded an
impairment charge in 2004 was sold in the first quarter of 2005, while all
remaining parcels of the $424,000 impairment charge were sold in 2004.

Discontinued Operations

The results of operations for properties sold during the year or
designated as held-for-sale at the end of the period are required to be
classified as discontinued operations. The property specific components of net
earnings that are classified as discontinued operations include rental
revenues, rental expenses, real estate taxes, interest expense, depreciation
expense and minority interest, as well as the net gain or loss on the
disposition of properties.

We have classified operations of 320 buildings as discontinued
operations as of December 31, 2005. These 320 buildings consist of 292
industrial, 23 office and five retail properties. As a result, we classified
net income from operations, net of minority interest, of $11.6 million, $20.0
million and $35.5 million as net income from discontinued operations for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.


Of these properties, 234 were sold during 2005, 41 properties were sold
during 2004, 42 properties were sold during 2003 and three operating properties
are classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2005. The gains on disposal of
these properties, net of impairment adjustment and minority interest, of $204.3
million, $23.9 million and $11.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively, are also reported in discontinued operations.

Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2004 to Year
Ended December 31, 2003

Rental Income from Continuing Operations

Rental income from continuing operations increased
from $560.7 million in 2003 to $619.6 million in 2004. The following table
reconciles rental income from continuing operations by reportable segment to
total reported rental income from continuing operations for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands):

Both of our reportable segments that comprise Rental
Operations (office and industrial) are within the real estate industry;
however, the same economic and industry conditions do not affect each segment
in the same manner. The primary causes of the increase in rental income from
continuing operations, with specific references to a particular segment when
applicable, are summarized below:

•

Our
in-service occupancy increased from 89.3% at December 31, 2003, to 90.9% at
December 31, 2004.

•

During
the year ended 2004, we acquired 19 new properties and placed 18 development
projects in-service. These acquisitions and developments are the primary
factors in the overall $58.9 million increase in rental revenue for the year
ended 2004, compared to the same period in 2003.

The 19 property
acquisitions totaled $264.0 million on 2.6 million square feet and were 80.3%
leased at December 31, 2004. The two largest acquisitions were office buildings
in Atlanta and Cincinnati. The 2004 acquisitions provided revenues of $14.2
million. Revenues from acquisitions that occurred during 2003 were $35.2
million in 2004 compared to $11.9 million in 2003.

Developments placed in service in 2004 provided
revenues of $9.9 million, while revenues associated with developments placed in
service in 2003 totaled $14.7 million in 2004 compared to $6.6 million in 2003.

•

The
rental income shown above includes lease termination fees. Lease termination
fees relate to specific tenants who pay a fee to terminate their lease
obligations before the end of the contractual lease term. Lease termination
fees totaled $16.2 million in 2003, compared to $14.7 million in 2004. The
decrease in termination fees corresponds with fewer corporate downsizings due
to improving market conditions.

Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Companies

Equity in earnings represents our ownership share of net income from
investments in unconsolidated companies. These joint ventures generally own and
operate rental properties and hold land for development. These earnings
decreased from $23.7 million in 2003 to $21.6 million in 2004 despite overall
occupancy remaining relatively flat around 94%. The decrease in earnings is the
result of the following:

•

A
tenant filed for bankruptcy in one joint venture property resulting in
occupancy for the property at the end of 2004 being 69.7% versus 87.4% in 2003.

•

We
sold our interest in one joint venture in December 2003 and, as a result, no
earnings were recorded in 2004.


Rental Expenses and Real Estate Taxes

The following table reconciles rental expenses and real estate taxes by
reportable segment to our total reported amounts in the statement of operations
for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands):

The increased rental and real estate tax expenses for 2004,
as compared to 2003, were primarily the result of our increase in average
in-service square feet and occupancy. These increases resulted from our
acquisition activities and developments placed in service as noted above.

Interest Expense

Interest expense increased from $100.7 million in 2003 to $109.9
million in 2004. We issued new debt to fund debt maturities, new developments
and acquisitions and to take advantage of the favorable interest rate
environment. The following is a summary of debt activities for 2004:

•

In
January, we obtained a $65 million floating rate term loan and immediately
fixed the rate at 2.18% with two interest rate swaps. We paid off this loan in
the first quarter of 2005. Also in January, we issued $125 million of unsecured
debt with a four-year maturity at 3.35%. In August we issued $250 million of
unsecured debt with a ten-year maturity at an effective rate of 6.33%. In
December we issued $250 million of unsecured floating rate debt at 26 basis
points over LIBOR. The debt matures in two years, but is callable at our option
after six months.

•

In
August, we paid off $15 million of a $40 million secured floating rate term
loan. We also assumed $29.9 million of secured debt in conjunction with a
property acquisition in Atlanta.

•

The
average balance and average borrowing rate of our $500 million revolving credit
facility were slightly higher in 2004 than in 2003. At the end of 2004, we were
not utilizing our credit facility.

Depreciation and Amortization Expense

Depreciation and amortization expense increased from $151.0 million in
2003 to $181.4 million in 2004 as a result of increased capital spending
associated with increased leasing, the additional basis resulting from
acquisition and development activity and the application of SFAS 141. The
points below highlight the significant increase in depreciation and
amortization.

•

Depreciation
expense on tenant improvements increased by $14.1 million.

•

Depreciation
expense on buildings increased by $6.0 million.

•

Lease
commission amortization expense increased by $2.2 million.

•

The
amortization expense associated with acquired lease intangible assets increased
by approximately $10.0 million.

Service Operations

Service Operations earnings increased from $21.8 million in 2003 to
$24.4 million in 2004. The increase reflects higher construction volumes
partially offset by increased staffing costs for our new National Development
and Construction group and construction jobs in certain markets. Other factors
impacting service operations are discussed below.

•

We
experienced a 1.6% decrease in our overall gross profit margin percentage in
our general contractor business in 2004 as compared to 2003, due to continued
competitive pricing pressure in many of our markets. We expect margins to
increase in 2005 as economic conditions improve.


However, despite
this decrease, we were able to increase our net general contractor revenues
from $26.8 million in 2003 to $27.6 million in 2004 because of an increase in
volume. This volume increase was attributable to continued low financing costs
available to businesses, thereby making it more attractive for them to own
instead of lease facilities. We have a substantial backlog of $183.2 million
for third party construction as of December 31, 2004, which was carried
into 2005.

•

Our
merchant building development and sales program, whereby a building is
developed by us and then sold, is a significant component of construction and
development income. During 2004, we generated after tax gains of $16.5 million
from the sale of six properties compared to $9.6 million from the sale of four
properties in 2003. Profit margins on these types of building sales fluctuate
by sale depending on the type of property being sold, the strength of the
underlying tenant and nature of the sale, such as a pre-contracted purchase
price for a primary tenant versus a sale on the open market.

General and Administrative Expense

General and administrative expense increased from $22.0 million in 2003
to $26.3 million in 2004. The increase was a result of increased staffing and
employee compensation costs to support development of our National Development
and Construction group. We also experienced an increase in marketing to support
certain new projects.

Other Income and Expenses

Earnings from sales of land and ownership interests in unconsolidated
companies, net of impairment adjustments, is comprised of the following amounts
in 2004 and 2003 (in thousands):

In the first quarter of 2003, we sold our 50% interest in a joint
venture that owned and operated depreciable investment property. The joint
venture developed and operated real estate assets; thus, the gain was not
included in operating income.

Gain on land sales are derived from sales of undeveloped land owned by
us. We pursue opportunities to dispose of land in markets with a high
concentration of undeveloped land and in those markets where the land no longer
meets our strategic development plans. The increase was partially attributable
to a land sale to a current corporate tenant for potential future expansion.

We recorded $424,000 and $560,000 of impairment charges associated with
contracts to sell land parcels for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. As of December 31, 2004, only one parcel on which we recorded
impairment charges was still owned by us. We sold this parcel in the first
quarter of 2005.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of our consolidated financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America (“GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Our
estimates, judgments and assumptions are continually evaluated based upon
available information and experience. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements includes further discussion of our significant accounting policies.

Our management has assessed the accounting policies
used in the preparation of our financial statements and discussed them with our
Audit Committee and independent auditors. The following accounting policies are
considered critical based upon materiality to the financial statements, degree
of judgment involved in estimating reported amounts and sensitivity to changes
in industry and economic conditions:


Accounting for Joint Ventures:

We analyze our investments in joint ventures under
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 46(R),

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,

to determine if the joint venture is considered a variable interest entity and
would require consolidation. To the extent that our joint ventures do not
qualify as variable interest entities, we further assess under the guidelines
of Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 04-5,

Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General
Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the
Limited Partners Have Certain Rights

(“EITF 04-5”), Statement of
Position 78-9,

Accounting for Investments in
Real Estate Ventures;

Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,

Consolidated Financial Statements

and FASB
No. 94,

Consolidation of All Majority-Owned
Subsidiaries,

to determine if the venture should be consolidated. We
have equity interests ranging from 10%-75% in joint ventures that own and
operate rental properties and hold land for development. We consolidate those
joint ventures that we control through majority ownership interests or
substantial participating rights. Control is further demonstrated by the
ability of the general partner to manage day-to-day operations, refinance debt
and sell the assets of the joint venture without the consent of the limited
partner and inability of the limited partner to replace the general partner. We
use the equity method of accounting for those joint ventures where we do not
have control over operating and financial polices. Under the equity method of
accounting, our investment in each joint venture is included on our balance
sheet; however, the assets and liabilities of the joint ventures for which we
use the equity method are not included on our balance sheet.

Cost Capitalization:

Direct and certain indirect costs, including
interest, clearly associated with and incremental to the development,
construction, leasing or expansion of real estate investments are capitalized
as a cost of the property. The following discusses the significant categories
of costs we incur:

Within our Rental Operations, direct and indirect
costs are capitalized under the guidelines of SFAS No. 67,

Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of
Real Estate Projects

(“SFAS 67”)

,

and interest costs are capitalized under the guidelines of SFAS No.
34, “

Capitalization of Interest Cost

”
(“SFAS 34”). We capitalize these project costs associated with the initial
construction of a property up to the time the property is substantially
complete and ready for its intended use. We believe the completion of the
building shell is the proper basis for determining substantial completion and
that this basis is the most widely accepted standard in the real estate
industry. The interest rate used to capitalize interest is based upon our
average borrowing rate on existing debt.

In addition, we capitalize costs, including interest
costs, on vacant space during extended lease-up periods after construction of
the building shell has been completed if costs are being incurred to ready the
vacant space for its intended use. If costs and activities incurred to ready
the vacant space cease, then cost capitalization is also discontinued until
such activities are resumed. Once necessary work has been completed on a vacant
space, project costs are no longer capitalized. We cease capitalization of all
project costs on extended lease-up periods after the shorter of a one-year
period after the completion of the building shell or when the property attains
a 90% occupancy. We follow guidelines in SFAS 34 and SFAS 67 in determining the
capitalization of project costs during the lease-up period of a property and
believe that this treatment is consistent with real estate industry standards
for project cost capitalization.

All direct construction and development costs
associated with the development of a new property are capitalized. In addition,
all leasing commissions paid to third parties for new leases or lease renewals
are capitalized. A portion of our indirect costs considered directly related
and incremental to construction/development and leasing efforts are
capitalized. In assessing the amount of indirect costs to be capitalized, we
first allocate payroll costs, on a department-by-department basis, among
activities for which capitalization is warranted (i.e., construction,
development and leasing) and those for which capitalization is not
warranted  (i.e., property management,
maintenance, acquisitions and dispositions and general corporate functions). To
the extent the employees of a department split their time between capitalizable
and non-capitalizable activities, the allocations are made based on estimates
of the actual amount of time spent in each activity. Once the payroll costs are
allocated, the non-payroll costs of each department are allocated among the
capitalizable and non-capitalizable activities in the same proportion as
payroll costs.


To ensure that an appropriate amount of costs are
capitalized, the amount of capitalized costs that are allocated to a specific
project are limited to amounts using standards we developed. These standards
consist of a percentage of the total development costs of a project and a
percentage of the total gross lease amount payable under a specific lease.
These standards are derived after considering the amounts that would be
allocated if the personnel in the departments were working at full capacity.
The use of these standards ensures that overhead costs attributable to downtime
or to unsuccessful projects or leasing activities are not capitalized by us.

Impairment of Real Estate
Investments:

We evaluate our
real estate investments upon occurrence of significant changes in the
operations, but not less than annually, to assess whether any impairment
indications are present that affect the recovery of the recorded value. If any
real estate investment is considered to be impaired, a loss is provided to
reduce the carrying value of the asset to its estimated fair value. We utilize
the guidelines established under SFAS No. 144,

Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets

(“SFAS 144”), to
determine if impairment conditions exist. Under SFAS 144, we review the
expected undiscounted cash flows of each property in our held for rental
portfolio to determine if there are any indications of impairment of a
property. The review of anticipated cash flows involves subjective assumptions
of estimated occupancy and rental rates and ultimate residual value. In
addition to reviewing anticipated cash flows, we assess other factors such as
changes in business climate and legal factors that may affect the ultimate
value of the property. These assumptions are subjective and the anticipated
cash flows may not ultimately be achieved.

Real estate assets to be disposed of are reported at
the lower of their carrying value amount or the fair value less estimated cost
to sell.

Acquisition of Real Estate
Property:

In accordance with
SFAS 141, we allocate the purchase price of acquired properties to net tangible
and identified intangible assets based on their respective fair values.

The allocation to tangible assets (buildings, tenant
improvements and land) is based upon management’s determination of the value of
the property as if it were vacant using discounted cash flow models similar to
those used by independent appraisers. Factors considered by management include
an estimate of carrying costs during the expected lease-up periods considering
current market conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. The remaining
purchase price is allocated among three categories of intangible assets
consisting of the above or below market component of in-place leases, the value
of in-place leases and the value of customer relationships.

•

The
value allocable to the above or below market component of an acquired in-place
lease is determined based upon the present value (using an interest rate which
reflects the risks associated with the lease) of the difference between (i) the
contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining term
and (ii) management’s estimate of the amounts that would be paid using current
fair market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated
to above market leases are included in deferred leasing and other costs in the
balance sheet and below market leases are included in other liabilities in the
balance sheet; both are amortized to rental income over the remaining terms of
the respective leases.

•

The
total amount of intangible assets is further allocated to in-place lease values
and to customer relationship values, based upon management’s assessment of
their respective values. These intangible assets are included in deferred
leasing and other costs in the balance sheet and are depreciated over the
remaining term of the existing lease, or the anticipated life of the customer
relationship, as applicable.

Valuation of Receivables:

We are subject to tenant defaults and bankruptcies
that could affect the collection of outstanding receivables. In order to
mitigate these risks, we perform in-house credit review and analysis on major
existing tenants and all significant leases before they are executed. We have
established the following procedures and policies to evaluate the collectibility
of outstanding receivables and record allowances:

•

We
maintain a tenant “watch list” containing a list of significant tenants for
which the payment of receivables and future rent may be at risk. Various
factors such as late rent payments, lease or debt instrument defaults, and
indications of a deteriorating financial position are considered when
determining whether to include a tenant on the watch list.


•

As
a matter of policy, we reserve the entire receivable balance, including
straight-line rent, of any tenant with an amount outstanding over 90 days.

•

Straight-line
rent receivables for any tenant on the watch list or any other tenant
identified as a potential long-term risk, regardless of the status of rent
receivables, are reviewed and reserved as necessary.

Revenue Recognition on
Construction Contracts:

We
recognize income on construction contracts where we serve as a general
contractor on the percentage of completion method. Using this method, profits
are recorded on the basis of our estimates of the overall profit and percentage
of completion of individual contracts. A portion of the estimated profits is
accrued based upon our estimates of the percentage of completion of the construction
contract. Cumulative revenues recognized may be less or greater than cumulative
costs and profits billed at any point in time during a contract’s term. This
revenue recognition method involves inherent risks relating to profit and cost
estimates with those risks reduced through approval and monitoring processes.

With regard to critical accounting policies,
management has discussed the following with the Audit Committee:

•

Criteria
for identifying and selecting;

•

Methodology
in applying; and

•

Impact
on the financial statements.

The
Audit Committee has reviewed the critical accounting policies we identified.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Sources of
Liquidity

We expect to meet our liquidity requirements over the next twelve
months, including payments of dividends and distributions as well as recurring
capital expenditures relating to maintaining our current real estate assets,
primarily through the following:

•

working
capital; and

•

net
cash provided by operating activities.

Although we typically do not use other sources of funds to pay for
recurring capital expenditures on our current real estate investments, we may
rely on the temporary use of borrowings or property disposition proceeds to
fund such expenditures during periods of high leasing volume. We expect to meet
long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled mortgage debt maturities,
refinancing of long-term debt, preferred share redemptions, the retirement of
unsecured notes and amounts outstanding under the unsecured credit facility,
property acquisitions, financing of development activities and other
non-recurring capital improvements, primarily from the following sources:

•

issuance
of additional notes;

•

issuance
of additional preferred shares;

•

undistributed
cash provided by operating activities, if any; and

•

proceeds
received from real estate dispositions.

Rental
Operations

We believe our principal source of liquidity, cash
flows from Rental Operations, provides a stable source of cash to fund
operational expenses. We believe this cash-based revenue stream is
substantially aligned with revenue recognition (except for periodic
straight-line rental income accruals and amortization of above or below market
rents) as cash receipts from the leasing of rental properties are generally
received in advance of or in a short time following the actual revenue
recognition.


We are subject to risks of decreased occupancy
through market conditions as well as tenant defaults and bankruptcies, and
potential reduction in rental rates upon renewal or re-letting of properties,
which would result in reduced cash flow from operations. However, we believe
that these risks are mitigated by our strong market presence in most of our
locations and the fact that we perform in-house credit review and analysis on
major tenants and all significant leases before they are executed.

Credit Facility

We had one unsecured line of credit available at December 31, 2005,
summarized as follows (in thousands):

Borrowing

Maturity

Interest

Outstanding

Description

Capacity

Date

Rate

at December 31, 2005

Unsecured Line of
  Credit

$500,000

January 2007

LIBOR + .60%

$

383,000

We use this line of credit to fund development
activities, acquire additional rental properties and provide working capital.

The line of credit provides us with an option to
obtain borrowings from financial institutions that participate in the line, at
rates lower than the stated interest rate, subject to certain restrictions.

The line of credit contains various financial
covenants that require us to meet defined levels of performance, including
variable interest indebtedness, consolidated net worth, and debt-to-market
capitalization. As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all
financial covenants under our line of credit.

In January 2006, we renewed our unsecured revolving
credit facility. The new facility provides borrowing capacity up to $1 billion
and, subject to certain conditions, may be increased to $1.3 billion. Under the
new facility, which replaces the previous unsecured line of credit agreement,
we reduced the interest rate by 7.5 basis points to LIBOR plus 52.5 basis
points, increased the borrowing capacity by $500 million and extended the
maturity date to January 25, 2010.

Debt and Equity Securities

At December 31, 2005, we had on file with the SEC an effective shelf
registration statement that permits us to sell up to an additional $795.0
million of unsecured debt securities and an additional $350.7 million of common
and preferred stock. From time to time, we expect to issue additional
securities under these registration statements to fund development and
acquisition of additional rental properties and to fund the repayment of the
credit facility and other long-term debt upon maturity.

The indenture governing our unsecured notes also requires us to comply
with financial ratios and other covenants regarding our operations. At December
31, 2005, we were in compliance with all such covenants.

Sale of Real Estate Assets

We utilize sales of real estate assets as an additional source of
liquidity. We pursue opportunities to sell real estate assets at favorable
prices to capture value created by us as well as to improve the overall quality
of our portfolio by recycling sale proceeds into new properties with greater
value creation opportunities.

Uses of Liquidity

Our principal uses of liquidity include the following:

•

Property investments;

•

Recurring leasing/capital costs;

•

Dividends and distributions to shareholders and
unitholders;

•

Long-term debt maturities; and

•

Other contractual obligations.

Pro

perty Investments

We evaluate development and acquisition opportunities based upon market
outlook, supply and long-term growth potential.


Recurring
Expenditures

One of our principal uses of our liquidity is to
fund the development, acquisition and recurring leasing/capital expenditures of
our real estate investments. The following is a summary of our recurring
capital expenditures for the year ended December 31  (in thousands):

Recurring capital expenditures remained relatively stable for 2005 as
compared to 2004. Our lease renewal percentage remained steady in 2005 at 74.3%
compared to 73.9% in 2004.

Dividends and Distributions

In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must
currently distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to shareholders. We
paid dividends per share of $1.87, $1.85 and $1.83 for the years ended December
31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We also paid a one-time special dividend
of $1.05 per share in 2005 as a result of the significant gain realized from
the Industrial Portfolio Sale. We expect to continue to distribute taxable
earnings to meet the requirements to maintain our REIT status. However,
distributions are declared at the discretion of our board of directors and are
subject to actual cash available for distribution, our financial condition,
capital requirements and such other factors, as our board of directors deems
relevant.

Debt Maturities

Debt outstanding at December 31, 2005, totaled $2.6 billion with a
weighted average interest rate of 5.73% maturing at various dates through 2028.
We had $2.4 billion of unsecured debt and $167.3 million of secured debt
outstanding at December 31, 2005. Scheduled principal amortization of such debt
totaled $46.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.

The following is a summary of the scheduled future amortization and
maturities of our indebtedness at December 31, 2005 (in thousands except
percentage data):

Historical Cash Flows

Cash and cash equivalents were $26.7 million and $5.6 million at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The following highlights significant
changes in net cash associated with our operating, investing and financing
activities (in millions):


Operating Activities

Cash flows from operating activities represents the cash necessary to
meet normal operational requirements of our rental operations and merchant building
activities. The receipt of rental income from rental operations continues to
provide the primary source of our revenues and operating cash flows. In
addition, we develop buildings with the intent to sell them, which provides
another significant source of operating cash flow activity.

•

During
the year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred merchant building development
costs of $83.4 million, compared to $43.1 million and $55.6 million for the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. The difference is reflective of the
increased activity in our held-for-sale pipeline. The pipeline of held-for-sale
projects under construction as of December 31, 2005, has anticipated costs of
$286.7 million. In addition, we also acquired a building for $6.0 million
during the first quarter of 2005 on which we made improvements of approximately
$7.5 million and sold in June 2005 for $20.0 million.

•

We
sold ten merchant buildings in 2005 compared to six in 2004 and four in 2003,
receiving net proceeds of $113.0 million, $72.7 million and $50.1 million,
respectively. After-tax gains of $19.0 million, $16.5 million and $9.6 million,
respectively, were recognized on these merchant building sales.

Investing Activities

Investing activities are one of the primary uses of our funds. Development
and acquisition activities typically generate additional rental revenues and
provide cash flows for operational requirements. Highlights of significant cash
uses are as follows:

•

Sales
of land and depreciated property provided $1.1 billion in net proceeds in 2005,
compared to $178.3 million in 2004 and $167.6 million in 2003. The Industrial
Portfolio Sale provided $955 million of proceeds during the third quarter of
2005. We continue to dispose of non-strategic and older properties as part of our
capital recycling program to fund acquisitions and new developments while
improving the overall quality of our investment portfolio.

•

Development
costs increased to $210.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from
$145.6 and $129.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. Management anticipated this increase, as a commitment to
development activity is part of our strategic plan for 2006.

•

During
2005, we acquired $285.3 million of real estate, compared to $204.4 million in
2004 and $201.8 million in 2003. The largest of the 2005 acquisitions was a
five-building office complex in our Chicago market for $257.0 million.

•

In
2005, we acquired $135.8 million of undeveloped land, compared to $116.7
million in 2004 and $32.9 million in 2003. These acquisitions provide us
greater opportunities to use our development and construction expertise in the
improving economic cycle.

Financing Activities

The following significant items highlight fluctuations in net cash
provided by financing activities:

•

In
January 2005, we retired a $65.0 million variable-rate term loan.

•

In
March 2005, we retired $100.0 million of 6.875% senior unsecured debt that
matured.

•

In
September 2005, we retired $100.0 million of 7.375% corporate unsecured debt
that matured.

•

Throughout
the third and fourth quarters of 2005, we repurchased and retired approximately
9.0 million of our common shares.


•

In
December 2005, we paid special dividends of $143.8 million to common
shareholders and special distributions of $14.1 million to minority interest
common unitholders, representing a one-time dividend of $1.05 per share or per
unit that was declared in order to maintain our compliance with the minimum distribution
requirements for a REIT. The one-time special dividend was declared as a result
of the significant gain realized as a result of the Industrial Portfolio Sale.

Credit Ratings

We are currently assigned investment grade corporate
credit ratings on our senior unsecured notes from Fitch Ratings, Moody’s
Investor Service and Standard and Poor’s Ratings Group. Currently, Fitch and
Standard and Poor’s have assigned a rating of BBB+ and Moody’s Investors has
assigned a rating of Baa1 to our senior notes.

We also received investment grade credit ratings
from the same rating agencies on our preferred stock. Fitch and Standard and
Poor’s have assigned a Preferred Stock rating of BBB and Moody’s Investors has
assigned a Preferred Stock rating of Baa2 to our preferred stock.

These senior notes and preferred stock ratings could
change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial
condition.

Financial Instruments

We are exposed to capital market risk, such as changes in interest rates.
In order to manage the volatility relating to interest rate risk, we may enter
into interest rate hedging arrangements from time to time. We do not utilize
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We
account for derivative instruments under Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities

(“SFAS 133”), as amended by SFAS
No. 138,

Accounting for Certain Derivative
Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities

(“SFAS 138”).

In March 2005, we entered into $300.0 million of cash flow hedges
through forward-starting interest rate swaps to hedge interest rates on $300.0
million of estimated debt offerings in 2006. The swaps qualify for hedge
accounting under SFAS 133, as amended by SFAS 138, with any changes in fair
value recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“OCI”). The market
value of these interest rate swaps is dependent upon existing market interest
rates, which change over time. At December 31, 2005, the estimated fair value
of the swaps was a liability of approximately $6.6 million. The effective rates
of the swaps were higher than interest rates at December 31, 2005.

In August 2005, we entered into $300.0 million of cash flow hedges
through forward-starting interest rate swaps to hedge interest rates on $300.0
million of estimated debt offerings in 2007. The swaps qualify for hedge
accounting under SFAS 133, as amended by SFAS 138, with any changes in fair
value recorded in OCI. At December 31, 2005, the fair value of these swaps was
an asset of $5.3 million. The effective rates of the swaps were lower than
interest rates at December 31, 2005.

In June 2004, we simultaneously entered into three forward-starting
interest rate swaps aggregating $144.3 million, which effectively fixed the
rate on financing expected in 2004 at 5.346%, plus our credit spread over the
swap rate. The swaps qualified for hedge accounting under SFAS 133; therefore,
changes in the fair value were recorded in OCI. In August 2004, we settled
these three swaps when we issued $250.0 million of unsecured notes with an
effective interest rate of 6.33%, due in 2014. We paid $6.85 million to unwind
the swaps, which is amortized from OCI into interest expense over the life of
the new 6.33% notes.

In December 2002, we simultaneously entered into two $50 million
forward-starting interest rate swaps as a hedge to effectively fix the rate on
unsecured debt financings expected in 2003. Then again in February 2003, we
simultaneously entered into two additional $25 million forward-starting
interest rate swaps as a hedge to effectively fix the rate on unsecured debt
financings expected in 2003. All four swaps qualified for hedge accounting
under SFAS 133; therefore, changes in fair value were recorded in OCI. In July
2003, we


terminated the swaps for a net gain of $643,000, which is included in
other revenue in the Statements of Operations. The swaps were terminated
because our capital needs were met through the issuance of the Series J
Preferred Stock in lieu of the previously contemplated issuance of debt.

In May 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
SFAS No. 150,

Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity

(“SFAS 150”). SFAS 150 establishes standards for classifying and measuring as
liabilities certain financial instruments that embody obligations of the issuer
and have characteristics of both liabilities and equity. SFAS 150 was effective
for all financial instruments created or modified after May 31, 2003, and
otherwise was effective July 1, 2003. We consolidated the operations of one
joint venture in our consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2005.
This joint venture is partially owned by unaffiliated parties that have
noncontrolling interests. SFAS 150 requires the disclosure of the estimated
settlement value of these noncontrolling interests. As of December 31, 2005,
the estimated settlement value of the noncontrolling interest in this
consolidated joint venture was approximately $1.1 million, as compared to the
$24,000 receivable reported in our financial statements for this joint venture.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

Investments
in Unconsolidated Companies

We analyze our investments in joint ventures under FASB Interpretation
No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (“FIN 46(R)”), to
determine if the joint venture is a variable interest entity and would require
consolidation. To the extent that our joint ventures do not qualify as variable
interest entities, we further assess under the guidelines of Emerging Issues
Task Force (“EITF”) No. 04-5,

Determining
Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a
Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain
Rights

(“EITF 04-5”); Statement of Position 78-9,

Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures

;
Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,

Consolidated
Financial Statements

and FASB No. 94,

Consolidation of All Majority-Owned Subsidiaries

, to
determine if the venture should be consolidated.

In 2004, we announced a 50/50 joint venture agreement with a medical
office developer to develop healthcare facilities. Under the terms of the
agreement, we provide the project financing and construction services while our
partner provides the business development, leasing and property management of
the co-developed properties. We evaluated this partnership under FIN 46(R) and
determined that this joint venture qualifies as a variable interest entity
subject to consolidation. We are the primary beneficiary as determined under
FIN 46(R) and fully consolidate the joint venture. At December 31, 2005, there
were six properties under development with the joint venture. These properties
total nearly 470,000 square feet and have an aggregate construction in-process
balance of approximately $14.9 million that is consolidated into our balance
sheet.

We have equity interests ranging from 10% – 64% in unconsolidated companies
that own and operate rental properties and hold land for development. The
equity method of accounting is used for these investments in which we have the
ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over operating and
financial policies. As a result, the assets and liabilities of these joint
ventures are not included on our balance sheet.

Our investment in unconsolidated companies represents 5% of our total
assets as of December 31, 2005. These investments provide several benefits to
us, including increased market share, tenant and property diversification and
an additional source of capital to fund real estate projects.

The following table presents summarized financial information for
unconsolidated companies for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (in
thousands, except percentage data):


Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or
financial partnerships, such as “special purpose entities,” which are generally
established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or
other specific purposes.

Contractual Obligations

At December 31, 2005, we are subject to certain contractual payment
obligations as described in the table and notes below (in thousands):

Payments due by Period

Related Party Transactions

We provide property management, leasing, construction and other tenant
related services to unconsolidated companies in which we have equity interests.
For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, we received
from these unconsolidated companies management fees of $4.8 million, $4.9
million and $4.9 million, leasing fees of $4.3 million, $2.6 million and $2.3
million and construction and development fees of $2.0 million, $1.5 million and
$1.4 million. We recorded these fees at market rates and eliminated our
ownership percentages of these fees in the consolidated financial statements.


Commitments and Contingencies

In October 2000, we sold or contributed industrial properties and
undeveloped land with a fair value of $487 million to a joint venture (Dugan
Realty LLC) in which we have a 50% interest and recognized a net gain of $35.2
million. This transaction expanded an existing joint venture with an institutional
real estate investor. As a result of the total transactions, we received $363.9
million of proceeds. The joint venture partially financed this transaction with
$350 million of secured mortgage debt, the repayment of which we directly or
indirectly guaranteed. The guarantee associated with $260 million of such debt
expired in December 2003 without us being required to satisfy the guarantee.
The remaining $90 million of such debt is still guaranteed by us. In connection
with this transaction, the joint venture partners were given an option to put
up to a $50 million interest in the joint venture to us in exchange for our
common stock or cash (at our option), subject to certain timing and other
restrictions. As a result of this put option, we deferred $10.2 million of gain
on sale of depreciated property and recorded a $50 million liability.

We have guaranteed the repayment of $12.3 million of economic
development bonds issued by various municipalities in connection with certain
commercial developments. We will be required to make payments under our
guarantees to the extent that incremental taxes from specified developments are
not sufficient to pay the bond debt service. Management does not believe that
it is probable that we will be required to make any significant payments in
satisfaction of these guarantees.

We also have guaranteed the repayment of a $2 million mortgage loan
encumbering the real estate of one of our unconsolidated joint ventures. At
December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on this loan was approximately $1.2
million. Management believes that the value of the real estate exceeds the loan
balance and that we will not be required to satisfy this guarantee.

We evaluated all applicable guarantees under FASB Interpretation 45 (“FIN
45”) in order to determine whether there is a need to recognize a liability for
the obligations under the guarantees. Based upon our review, no liability was
recorded at December 31, 2005.

We have entered into agreements, subject to the completion of due
diligence requirements, resolution of certain contingencies and completion of
customary closing conditions, for the future acquisition of land totaling $65.0
million. We also have entered into an agreement to acquire an 18 building
portfolio for approximately $194.1 million, which is expected to close in 2006.

We renewed all of our major insurance policies in 2005. These policies
include coverage for acts of terrorism for our properties. We believe that this
insurance provides adequate coverage against normal insurance risks and that
any loss experienced would not have a significant impact on our liquidity,
financial position, or results of operations.

We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in
the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the amount of
any ultimate liability with respect to these actions will not materially affect
our consolidated financial statements or results of operations.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (R),

Share-Based Payment,

which is a revision
of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation.

In April 2005, the SEC delayed the effective date on
SFAS No. 123 (R) from July 2005 to January 2006

.

We have completed our preliminary evaluation of the impact of SFAS
No. 123 (R) and have determined that the cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle will be insignificant to our results of operations. We
have selected the modified-prospective method for the adoption of SFAS No. 123
(R).


In March 2005, FASB Interpretation No. 47,

Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations

(“FIN
47”)

,

was issued for all fiscal
years ending after December 15, 2005. This is an interpretation of SFAS No.
143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligation.

Upon evaluation, we have determined that the adoption of
FIN 47 did not have a material impact on our financial statements.

In June 2005, FASB ratified the consensus reached in Emerging Issues
Task Force (“EITF”) No. 04-5,

Determining
Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a
Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain
Rights

(“EITF 04-5”). EITF 04-5 is effective for all newly formed
limited partnerships after the consensus was ratified and as of January 2006
for all pre-existing limited partnership agreements. This consensus applies to
limited partnerships or similar entities, such as limited liability companies
that have governing provisions that are the functional equivalent of a limited
partnership. We have evaluated the ownership structure of our existing
investments in unconsolidated companies and determined that we do not exercise
control over any unconsolidated ventures as defined by EITF 04-5.

Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks

We are exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of our
line of credit and long-term debt borrowings. Our interest rate risk management
objective is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash
flows and to lower overall borrowing costs. To achieve our objectives, we
borrow primarily at fixed rates and may enter into derivative financial
instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury locks in order to
mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. We do not
enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes.

Our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. The
table below presents the principal amounts (in thousands) of the expected
annual maturities, weighted average interest rates for the average debt
outstanding in the specified period, fair values and other terms required to
evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes.

As the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of
December 31, 2005, it does not consider those exposures or positions that could
arise after that date. As a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with
respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise
during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and interest rates.

Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

The financial statements and supplementary data are included under Item
15 of this Report.

Item 9. Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

There was no change or disagreement with our accountants related to our
accounting and financial disclosures.


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures

We conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures” as of the end of the
period covered by this Annual Report. The controls evaluation was done under
the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer.

Attached as exhibits to this Annual Report are certifications of the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, which are required in
accordance with Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This
Controls and Procedures section includes the information concerning the
controls evaluation referred to in the certifications and it should be read in
conjunction with the certifications for a more complete understanding of the
topics presented.

Disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15 and
15d-15f under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) are
controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as
this Annual Report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the
time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and
procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including the Company’s principal executive and
principal financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.

Based on the disclosure controls and procedures evaluation referenced
above, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded
that as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, our disclosure
controls and procedures were effective.

Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting
and the attestation report of our registered public accounting firm are
included in Item 15 of Part IV under the headings “Management’s Report on
Internal Control” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,”
respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.

There were no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting
during the quarter ended December 31, 2005, that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over
financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other Information

There was no information required to be disclosed in a report on Form
8-K during the fourth quarter of 2005 for which no Form 8-K was filed.

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant

Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to our
2006 proxy statement (the “2006 Proxy Statement”) for our Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2006. Certain information with respect to
our executive officers required by this item is included in the discussion
entitled “Executive Officer of the Registrant” after Item 4 of Part I of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our Code of Conduct and our Corporate
Governance Guidelines are available in the investor information/corporate
governance section of our website at www.dukerealty.com. A copy of these
documents may also be obtained without charge by writing to Duke Realty
Corporation, 600 East 96

th

Street, Suite 100, Indianapolis, Indiana
46240, Attention: Investor Relations.


Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 11 of this Annual Report will be
included in our Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated herein by
this reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by Item 12 of this Report will be included in
our Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions

The information required to be furnished pursuant to Item 13 of this
Report will be included in our Proxy Statement, which information is
incorporated herein by this reference.

Item 14. Principal Accountant
Fees and Services

The information required to be furnished pursuant to Item 14 of this
Report will be included in our Proxy Statement, which information is
incorporated herein by this reference.

Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits
and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)           The following documents are filed as part of this Annual
Report:

1.

Consolidated Financial Statements

The following Consolidated
Financial Statements, together with the Management’s Report on Internal
Control, the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-Financial
Statements and Financial Statement Schedule III and Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm-Management’s Assessment of the Effectiveness
of Internal Control over Financial Reporting and the Effectiveness of Internal
Control over Financial Reporting, are listed below:

2.     Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules

Schedule III – Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation


3.     Exhibits

The following exhibits are filed with this Form 10-K
or incorporated herein by reference to the listed document

previously

filed with the SEC. Previously
unfiled documents are noted with an asterisk (*).







# Represents
  management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Filed herewith.

** The certifications attached as Exhibits 32.1 and
32.2 accompany this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are “furnished” to the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed “filed” by us for purposes
of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

(1) Confidential treatment of the Agreement for
Purchase and Sale was requested.

We will furnish to any security holder, upon written
request, copies of any exhibit incorporated by reference, for a fee of 15 cents
per page, to cover the costs of furnishing the exhibits. Written requests
should include a representation that the person making the request was the
beneficial owner of securities entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.

(b)

Exhibits

The
exhibits required to be filed with this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 601 of
Regulation S-K are listed under “Exhibits” in Part IV, Item 14(a)(3) of Form
10-K and are incorporated herein by reference.

(c)

Financial
Statement Schedule

The Financial Statement Schedule required to be
filed with this Form 10-K is listed under “Consolidated Financial Statement
Schedules” in Part IV, Item 14(a)(2) of this Form 10-K, and is incorporated
herein by reference.


Management’s Report on Internal
Control

We, as management of Duke Realty Corporation
and its subsidiaries (“Duke”), are responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule
13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). Pursuant to
the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial
officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s
board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedure that:

•

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in
reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of assets of the company;

•

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and

•

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Management has evaluated the effectiveness of its
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the
control criteria established in a report entitled Internal Control – Integrated
Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). Based on such evaluation, we have concluded that, as of
December 31, 2005, our internal control over financial reporting is effective
based on these criteria.

The independent registered public accounting firm of
KPMG LLP, as auditors of Duke’s consolidated financial statements, has issued
an attestation report on management’s assessment of Duke’s internal control
over financial reporting.


Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm

The Shareholders and Directors of

Duke Realty Corporation:

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying
Management’s Report on Internal Control that Duke Realty Corporation and
Subsidiaries (the “Company”) maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in
Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Duke Realty Corporation and
Subsidiaries’ management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that Duke Realty Corporation
and Subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on
criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by COSO.
Also, in our opinion, Duke Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries maintained, in
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by COSO.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance
sheets of Duke Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and
shareholders’ equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2005 and related financial statement schedule III, and our report
dated March 3, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements and related financial statement schedule III.

KPMG LLP

Indianapolis,
Indiana

March 3, 2006


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm

The Shareholders
and Directors of

Duke Realty Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Duke Realty
Corporation and Subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and
shareholders’ equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2005. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial
statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule III. These
consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and the financial statement
schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Duke Realty
Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule III, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Duke Realty
Corporation and Subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 3, 2006, expressed an unqualified
opinion on management’s assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal
control over financial reporting.

KPMG LLP

Indianapolis,
Indiana

March 3, 2006


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated Balance Sheets

As of December 31,

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated

Statements of Operations

For the Years Ended December 31

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Years Ended December 31

(in thousands)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated

Financial
Statements.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated

Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

(in thousands, except per share
data)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated

Financial
Statements.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements

(1)

The
Company

Our rental operations are
conducted through Duke Realty Limited Partnership (“DRLP”). We owned
approximately 91.0% of the common partnership interests of DRLP (“Units”) at
December 31, 2005. The remaining Units in DRLP are redeemable for shares of our
common stock. We conduct Service Operations through Duke Realty Services LLC (“DRS”)
and Duke Realty Services Limited Partnership (“DRSLP”), of which we are the
sole general partner and of which DRLP is the sole limited partner. We also
conduct Service Operations through Duke Construction Limited Partnership (“DCLP”),
which is effectively 100% owned by DRLP. The consolidated financial statements
include our accounts and our majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries.

(2)

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated
financial statements include our accounts and our controlled subsidiaries. The
equity interests in these controlled subsidiaries not owned by us are reflected
as minority interests in the consolidated financial statements. All significant
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated
financial statements. Investments in entities that we do not control through
majority voting interest or where the other owner has substantial participating
rights are not consolidated and are reflected as investments in unconsolidated
companies under the equity method of reporting.

Reclassifications

Certain
2004 and 2003 balances have been reclassified to conform to the 2005
presentation.

Real Estate Investments

Rental real property,
including land, land improvements, buildings and building improvements, are
included in real estate investments and are generally stated at cost. Buildings
and land improvements are depreciated on the straight-line method over their
estimated life not to exceed 40 and 15 years, respectively, and tenant
improvement costs are depreciated using the straight-line method over the term
of the related lease.

Direct and certain
indirect costs clearly associated with and incremental to the development,
construction, leasing or expansion of real estate investments are capitalized
as a cost of the property. In addition, all leasing commissions paid to third
parties for new leases or lease renewals are capitalized. We capitalize a
portion of our indirect costs associated with our construction/development and
leasing efforts. In assessing the amount of direct and indirect costs to be
capitalized, allocations are made based on estimates of the actual amount of
time spent in each activity. We do not capitalize any costs attributable to
downtime or to unsuccessful projects of leasing activities.

Within our Rental
Operations, direct and indirect costs are capitalized under the guidelines of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 67,

Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of
Real Estate Projects

(“SFAS 67”)

,

and interest costs are capitalized under the guidelines of SFAS No. 34,

Capitalization of Interest Cost

(“SFAS 34”)

.

The Company capitalizes these project
costs associated with the initial construction of a property up to the time the
property is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. In addition,
the Company capitalizes costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, and
utilities, that have been allocated to vacant space based on the square footage
of the portion of the building not held available for immediate occupancy
during the extended lease-up periods after construction of the building shell
has been completed if costs are being incurred to ready the vacant space for
its intended use. If costs and activities incurred to ready the vacant space
cease, then cost capitalization is also discontinued until such activities are
resumed. Once necessary work has been completed on a vacant space, project
costs are no longer capitalized.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

We
cease capitalization of all project costs on extended lease-up periods after
the shorter of a one-year period after the completion of the building shell or
when the property attains 90% occupancy. Tenant improvement costs are generally
not incurred on vacant space until a lease is signed and specific improvements
are identified in the lease.

Construction
in process and land held for development are included in real estate
investments and are stated at cost. Real estate investments also include our
equity interests in unconsolidated joint ventures that own and operate rental
properties and hold land for development. We analyze our investments in joint
ventures under Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No.
46(R),

Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities,

to determine if the joint venture is considered a variable
interest entity and would require consolidation. The equity method of
accounting is used for these investments in which we have the ability to
exercise significant influence, but not control, over operating and financial
policies. Any difference between the carrying amount of these investments and
the underlying equity in net assets is amortized to equity in earnings of
unconsolidated companies over the depreciable life of the property, generally
40 years. Distributions received from unconsolidated joint ventures are
generated from the operations of the properties in the joint venture and are
reflected as an operating activity in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

In
accordance with SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for
the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets

(“SFAS 144”),
properties held for rental are individually evaluated for impairment when
conditions exist which may indicate that it is probable that the sum of
expected future cash flows (on an undiscounted basis) from a rental property
over its anticipated holding period is less than its historical net cost basis.
Upon determination that a permanent impairment has occurred, a loss is recorded
to reduce the net book value of that property to its fair market value. Real
properties to be disposed of are reported at the lower of net historical cost
basis or the estimated fair market value, less the estimated costs to sell.
Once a property is designated as held for disposal, no further depreciation
expense is recorded.

In
accordance with SFAS No. 141,

Business
Combinations

(“SFAS 141”), we allocate the purchase price of
acquired properties to net tangible and identified intangible assets based on
their respective fair values. The allocation to tangible assets (buildings,
tenant improvements and land) is based upon management’s determination of the
value of the property as if it were vacant using discounted cash flow models
similar to those used by independent appraisers. Factors considered by
management include an estimate of carrying costs during the expected lease-up
periods considering current market conditions, and costs to execute similar
leases. The remaining purchase price is allocated among three categories of
intangible assets consisting of the above or below market component of in–place
leases, the value of in-place leases and the value of customer relationships.

The
value allocable to the above or below market component of an acquired in-place
lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount rate which
reflects the risks associated with the acquired leases) of the difference
between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its
remaining term and (ii) management’s estimate of the amounts that would be paid
using fair market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The amounts
allocated to above market leases are included in deferred leasing and other
costs in the balance sheet and below market leases are included in other
liabilities in the balance sheet; both are amortized to rental income over the
remaining terms of the respective leases.

The
total amount of intangible assets is further allocated to in-place lease values
and to customer relationship values based upon management’s assessment of their
respective values. These intangible assets are included in deferred leasing and
other costs in the balance sheet and are depreciated over the remaining term of
the existing lease, or the anticipated life of the customer relationship, as
applicable.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Cash Equivalents

Investments
with a maturity of three months or less when purchased are classified as cash
equivalents.

Valuation of Receivables

We reserve the entire receivable balance, including
straight-line rent, of any tenant with an amount outstanding over 90 days.
Straight-line rent receivables for any tenant with long-term risk, regardless
of the status of rent receivables, are reviewed and reserved as necessary.

Deferred Costs

Costs
incurred in connection with obtaining financing are amortized to interest
expense on the straight-line method, which approximates a constant spread over
the term of the related loan. All direct and indirect costs, including
estimated internal costs, associated with the leasing of real estate
investments owned by us are capitalized and amortized over the term of the related
lease. We account for lease incentive costs, which are payments made to or on
behalf of a tenant, as an incentive to sign the lease, in accordance with FASB
Technical Bulletin (“FTB”) 88-1,

Issues
Relating to Accounting for Leases.

These costs are capitalized in
deferred leasing costs and amortized on a straight-line basis over the
respective lease terms as a reduction of rental revenues. We include as lease
incentives amounts funded to construct tenant improvements owned by the tenant.
Unamortized costs are charged to expense upon the early termination of the
lease or upon early payment of the financing.

Revenues

Rental
Operations

The
timing of revenue recognition under an operating lease is determined based upon
ownership of the tenant improvements. If we are the owner of the tenant
improvements, revenue recognition commences after the improvements are
completed and the tenant takes possession or control of the space. In contrast,
if we determine that the tenant allowances we are funding are lease incentives,
then we commence revenue recognition when possession or control of the space is
turned over to the tenant. Rental income from leases with scheduled rental
increases during their terms is recognized on a straight-line basis.

Service
Operations

Management
fees are based on a percentage of rental receipts of properties managed and are
recognized as the rental receipts are collected. Maintenance fees are based
upon established hourly rates and are recognized as the services are performed.
Construction management and development fees represent fee based third party
contracts and are recognized as earned based on the terms of the contract,
which approximates the percentage of completion method.

We
recognize income on construction contracts where we serve as a general
contractor on the percentage of completion method. Using this method, profits
are recorded based on our estimates of the percentage of completion of
individual contracts, commencing when the work performed under the contracts
reach a point where the final costs can be estimated with reasonable accuracy.
The percentage of completion estimates are based on a comparison of the
contract expenditures incurred to the estimated final costs. Changes in job
performance, job conditions and estimated profitability may result in revisions
to costs and income and are recognized in the period in which the revisions are
determined.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Property Sales

Gains
from sales of depreciated property are recognized in accordance with SFAS No.
66,

Accounting for Sales of Real Estate

(“SFAS 66”), and are included in earnings from sales of land and depreciable
property dispositions, net of any impairment adjustments, in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations if identified as held-for-sale prior to adoption of
SFAS 144 and in discontinued operations if identified as held-for-sale after
adoption of SFAS 144. The proceeds from the sale of these held-for-rental
properties are classified in the investing activities section of the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Gains
or losses from our sale of properties that were developed with the intent to
sell and not for long-term rental are recognized in accordance with SFAS 66 and
are included in construction management and development activity income in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations. All activities and proceeds received
from the development and sale of these merchant buildings are classified in the
operating activities section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Net Income Per Common Share

Basic
net income per common share is computed by dividing net income available for
common shares by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for
the period. Diluted net income per common share is computed by dividing the sum
of net income available for common shareholders and the minority interest in
earnings allocable to Units not owned by us, by the sum of the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding, minority Units outstanding and any
dilutive potential common shares for the period.

The
following table reconciles the components of basic and diluted net income per
common share (in thousands):

(1)

We
called for the redemption of the Series D preferred shares as of March 16,
2004. Prior to the redemption date, nearly 5.3 million Series D preferred
shares were converted to 4.9 million common shares. These shares represent the
weighted effect, assuming the Series D preferred shares had been converted on
January 1, 2004.

The
Series D Convertible Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares were anti-dilutive
for the year ended December 31, 2003; therefore, no conversion to common shares
was included in weighted average dilutive potential common shares.

A
joint venture partner in one of our unconsolidated companies has the option to
convert a portion of its ownership to our common shares. The effect of this
option on earnings per share was anti-dilutive for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003.

Federal Income Taxes

We
have elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) under the
Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, we must meet a number of
organizational and operational requirements, including a


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

requirement
to distribute at least 90% of our adjusted taxable income to our stockholders.
Management intends to continue to adhere to these requirements and to maintain
our REIT status. As a REIT, we are entitled to a tax deduction for some or all
of the dividends we pay to shareholders. Accordingly, we generally will not be
subject to federal income taxes as long as we distribute an amount equal to or
in excess of our taxable income currently to shareholders. A REIT generally is
subject to federal income taxes on any taxable income that is not currently
distributed to its shareholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable
year, we will be subject to federal income taxes and may not be able to qualify
as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years.

REIT
qualification reduces, but does not eliminate, the amount of state and local
taxes we pay. In addition, our financial statements include the operations of
taxable corporate subsidiaries that are not entitled to a dividends paid
deduction and are subject to corporate federal, state and local income taxes.
As a REIT, we may also be subject to certain federal excise taxes if we engage
in certain types of transactions.

The
following table reconciles our net income to taxable income before the
dividends paid deduction for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
(in thousands):

Our
dividends paid deduction is summarized below (in thousands):

A
summary of the tax characterization of the dividends paid for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 follows:

We
recorded federal and state income taxes of $5.6 million, $5.2 million and $4.0
million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which were primarily
attributable to the earnings of our taxable REIT subsidiaries. We paid federal
and state income taxes of $8.7 million, $6.2 million and $5.5 million for 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively. The taxable REIT subsidiaries have no significant
deferred income tax items.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Stock Based Compensation

For
all issuances of stock-based awards prior to 2002, we apply the recognition and
measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

,
and related interpretations in accounting, for our stock-based compensation.

Accordingly,
for stock options granted prior to 2002, no compensation expense is reflected
in net income as all options granted had an exercise price equal to the market
value of the underlying common shares on the date of the grant.

Effective
January 1, 2002, we prospectively adopted the fair value recognition provisions
of FASB Statement No. 123,

Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation

(“SFAS 123”), and applied SFAS 123 to all
awards granted after January 1, 2002.

Stock
option awards granted under our stock based employee and non-employee
compensation plans generally vest over five years at 20% per year. Therefore,
the expense related to these plans is less than that which would have been
recognized if the fair value method had been applied to all awards since the
original effective date of SFAS 123. The following table illustrates the effect
on net income and earnings per share if the fair value method had been applied
to all outstanding and unvested stock option awards in each period (in
thousands, except per share data).

Derivative Financial Instruments

We
periodically enter into certain interest rate protection agreements to
effectively convert or cap floating rate debt to a fixed rate, and to hedge
anticipated future financing transactions, both of which qualify for cash flow
hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133,

Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

, as amended (“SFAS
133”). Net amounts paid or received under these agreements are recognized as an
adjustment to the interest expense of the corresponding debt. We do not utilize
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

SFAS
133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet
as assets or liabilities at their fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges
must be adjusted to fair value through the recording of income or expense. If a
derivative qualifies as a cash flow hedge, the change in fair value of the
derivative is recognized in other comprehensive income to the extent the hedge
is effective, while the ineffective portion


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

of the
derivative’s change in fair value is recognized in earnings. We estimate the
fair value of derivative instruments using standard market conventions and
techniques such as discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and
termination cost at each balance sheet date. For all hedging relationships, we
formally document the hedging relationship and its risk-management objective
and strategy for undertaking the hedge, the hedging instrument, the hedged
item, the nature of the risk being hedged, how the hedging instrument’s
effectiveness in offsetting the hedged risk will be assessed prospectively and
retrospectively, and a description of the method of measuring ineffectiveness.

Use Of Estimates

The
preparation of the financial statements requires management to make a number of
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and
liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

(3)

Industrial
Portfolio Sale

On September 29, 2005, we completed the sale of a
portfolio of 212 real estate properties, consisting of approximately 14.1
million square feet of primarily light distribution and service center
properties and approximately 50 acres of undeveloped land (the “Industrial
Portfolio Sale”). The purchase price totaled $983 million, of which we received
net proceeds of $955 million after the settlement of certain liabilities and
transaction costs. Portions of the proceeds were used to pay down $423 million
of outstanding debt on our $500 million unsecured line of credit and the entire
outstanding balance on our $400 million term loan. The operations for 2005,
2004 and 2003 and the gain for 2005 associated with the properties in the
Industrial Portfolio Sale have been reclassified to discontinued operations.
For further discussion, see Note 6. As a result of the taxable income generated
by the sale, a one-time special cash dividend of $1.05 per share was paid to
our common shareholders in the fourth quarter of 2005.

(4)

Related
Party Transactions

We
provide property management, leasing, construction and other tenant related
services to unconsolidated companies in which we have equity interests. For the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, we received from
these unconsolidated companies management fees of $4.8 million, $4.9 million
and $4.9 million, leasing fees of $4.3 million, $2.6 million and $2.3 million
and construction and development fees of $2.0 million, $1.5 million and $1.4
million. We recorded these fees at market rates and eliminated our ownership
percentages of these fees in the consolidated financial statements.

(5)

Investments
in Unconsolidated Companies

We
analyze our investments in joint ventures under FASB Interpretation No. 46(R),

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

(“FIN
46(R)”), to determine if the joint venture is a variable interest entity and
would require consolidation. To the extent that our joint ventures do not
qualify as variable interest entities, we further assess under the guidelines
of Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 04-5,

Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General
Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the
Limited Partners Have Certain Rights

(“EITF 04-5”), Statement of
Position 78-9,

Accounting for Investments in
Real Estate Ventures

; Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,

Consolidated Financial Statements,

and
FASB No. 94,

Consolidation of All
Majority-Owned Subsidiaries

, to determine if the venture should be
consolidated.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

In
2004, we announced a 50/50 joint venture agreement with a medical office
developer to develop healthcare facilities. Under the terms of the agreement,
we provide the project financing and construction services while our partner
provides the business development, leasing and property management of the
co-developed properties. We evaluated this partnership under FIN 46(R) and
determined that this joint venture qualifies as a variable interest entity
subject to consolidation. We are the primary beneficiary as determined under
FIN 46(R) and fully consolidate the joint venture.

At
December 31, 2005, there were six properties under development with the joint
venture. These properties total nearly 470,000 square feet and have an
aggregate construction in-process balance of approximately $14.9 million that
is consolidated into our balance sheet.

We
have equity interests ranging from 10%–64% in unconsolidated joint ventures
that own and operate rental properties and hold land for development.

Combined
summarized financial information for the unconsolidated companies as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004,
and 2003, are as follows (in thousands):

Our

share of the scheduled payments of long term debt for the unconsolidated joint
ventures for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 31,
2005, are as follows (in thousands):

The following significant transactions

involving the unconsolidated companies have occurred
over the past three years:

During 2003, we purchased our partners’ interests in
three separate joint ventures. We had a 50% interest in each of these ventures
prior to their acquisition. We also sold our 50% interest in two separate joint
ventures to our partners. In addition, we contributed cash and undeveloped land
to a joint venture that owns undeveloped land and an office building in return
for a 50% interest.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(6)

Real
Estate Investments

We have classified
operations of 320 buildings as discontinued operations as of December 31, 2005.
These 320 buildings consist of 292 industrial, 23 office and five retail
properties. Of these properties, 234 were sold during 2005, 41 properties were
sold during 2004, 42 properties were sold during 2003 and three operating
properties are classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2005.

The following table
illustrates the major classes of operations affected by the 320 buildings
identified as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31 (in
thousands):

The following table
illustrates the balance sheet of the three buildings identified as
held-for-sale at December 31, 2005 (in thousands):

We allocate interest
expense to discontinued operations as permitted under EITF 87-24,

“Allocation of Interest to Discontinued Operations,”

and
have included such interest expense in computing net income from discontinued
operations. Interest expense allocable to discontinued operations includes
interest on the debt for the secured properties and an allocable share of our
consolidated unsecured interest expense for unencumbered properties. The
allocation of unsecured interest expense to discontinued operations was based
upon the Gross Book Value of the discontinued operations unencumbered
population as it related to our entire unencumbered population.

At
December 31, 2005, we had classified as held-for-sale three industrial
properties comprising approximately 366,000 square feet. While we have entered
into agreements for the sale of these properties, there can be no assurances
that such properties actually will be sold.

In 2005,
we recorded $3.7 million of impairment adjustments for two industrial buildings
and four office buildings and $259,000 of impairment adjustments for seven land
parcels. These adjustments reflect the write-down of the carrying value of the
properties to their projected sales prices, less selling expenses, once it
became probable that the properties would be sold. One of the industrial
buildings is projected to sell in the first quarter of 2006, while the other
five buildings and seven land parcels were sold in 2005.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

In
2004, we recorded $424,000 of impairment adjustments for three land parcels. We
also recorded a $180,000 impairment adjustment for the industrial building
classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2004. The industrial building was
sold in the first quarter of 2005. Each of the land parcel properties was sold
in 2004.

In
2003, we recorded $1.1 million of impairment adjustments for one industrial
building and three land parcels that were sold in 2003.

(7)

Indebtedness

Indebtedness
at December 31 consists of the following (in thousands):

The
fair value of our indebtedness as of December 31, 2005, was $2.7 billion. This
fair value amount was calculated using current market rates and spreads
available to us on debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.

As of
December 31, 2005, the $167.3 million of secured debt was collateralized by
rental properties with a carrying value of $346.5 million and by letters of
credit in the amount of $10.1 million.

We had
one unsecured line of credit available at December 31, 2005, summarized as
follows (in thousands):

Description

Borrowing

Capacity

Maturity

Date

Interest

Rate

Outstanding

at December

31, 2005

Unsecured Line of Credit

$500,000

January 2007

LIBOR + .60%

$

383,000

The
line of credit provides us with an option to obtain borrowings from financial
institutions that participate in the line, at rates lower than the stated
interest rate, subject to certain restrictions.

In
January 2006, we renewed our unsecured revolving credit facility. The new
facility provides borrowing capacity up to $1 billion and, subject to certain
conditions, may be increased to $1.3 billion. Under the new facility, which
replaces the previous unsecured line of credit agreement, we reduced the
interest rate by 7.5 basis points to LIBOR plus 52.5 basis points, increased
the borrowing capacity by $500 million and extended the maturity date to
January 25, 2010.

The
line of credit contains various financial covenants that require us to meet
defined levels of performance, including variable interest indebtedness,
consolidated net worth and debt-to-market capitalization. As of December 31,
2005, we were in compliance with all financial covenants under our line of
credit.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

We
took the following actions during the year ended December 31, 2005, relevant to
our indebtedness:

•

In January 2005, we retired our $65.0 million
variable-rate term loan.

•

In March 2005, we retired $100.0 million of 6.875%
senior unsecured debt that matured.

•

In May 2005, we obtained a $400.0 million unsecured
term loan, which was priced at LIBOR + .30%. This unsecured term loan was paid
off in full on September 29, 2005 with proceeds from the Industrial Portfolio
Sale.

•

In September 2005, we retired $100.0 million of
7.375% senior unsecured debt that matured.

•

In September 2005, we paid down the outstanding
balance of $423.0 million on our $500.0 million unsecured line of credit with
proceeds from the Industrial Portfolio Sale.

At
December 31, 2005, the scheduled amortization and maturities of all
indebtedness for the next five years and thereafter were as follows  (in thousands):

The
amount of interest paid in 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $151.3 million, $136.2
million and $130.1 million, respectively. The amount of interest capitalized in
2005, 2004 and 2003 was $9.5 million, $6.0 million and $6.7 million,
respectively.

(8)

Segment
Reporting

We are engaged in three
operating segments, the first two of which consist of the ownership and rental
of office and industrial real estate investments (collectively, “Rental
Operations”). The third segment consists of our build-to-suit for sale
operations and the providing of various real estate services that we provide
such as property management, maintenance, leasing, development and construction
management to third-party property owners and joint ventures (“Service
Operations”). Our reportable segments offer different products or services and
are managed separately because each requires different operating strategies and
management expertise. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, there were no material
intersegment sales or transfers.

Non-segment revenue
consists mainly of equity in earnings of unconsolidated companies. Segment FFO
(defined below) information is calculated by subtracting operating expenses
attributable to the applicable segment from segment revenues. Non-segment
assets consist of corporate assets including cash, deferred financing costs and
investments in unconsolidated companies. Interest expense and other
non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual
segments in determining our performance measure.

We
assess and measure segment operating results based upon an industry performance
measure referred to as Funds From Operations (“FFO”), which management believes
is a useful indicator of our operating performance. FFO is used by industry
analysts and investors as a supplemental operating performance measure of an
equity real estate investment trust (“REIT”).

FFO is
calculated in accordance with the definition that was adopted by the Board of
Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”).
FFO, as defined by NAREIT, represents net income (loss) determined in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(“GAAP”),
excluding extraordinary items as defined under GAAP and gains or losses from
sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets, plus certain
non-cash items such as real estate asset depreciation and amortization, and
after similar adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

The
revenues and FFO for each of the reportable segments for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and the assets of each
reportable segment as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, are
summarized as follows (in thousands):

In
addition to revenues and FFO, we also review our recurring capital expenditures
in measuring the performance of our individual Rental Operations segments.
These recurring capital expenditures consist of


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

tenant
improvements, leasing commissions and building improvements. We review these
expenditures to determine the costs associated with re-leasing vacant space and
maintaining the condition of our properties. Our recurring capital expenditures
by segment are summarized as follows for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively (in thousands):

(9)

Leasing
Activity

Future
minimum rents due to us under non-cancelable operating leases at December 31,
2005, are as follows (in thousands):

In
addition to minimum rents, certain leases require reimbursements of specified operating
expenses that amounted to $151.4 million, $137.9 million, and $130.3 million
for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

(10)

Employee
Benefit Plans

We
maintain a 401(k) plan for full-time employees. We make matching contributions
up to an amount equal to three percent of the employee’s salary and may also
make annual discretionary contributions. The total expense recognized for this
plan was $2.3 million, $1.9 million and $1.6 million for the years ended 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.

We
make contributions to a contributory health and welfare plan as necessary to
fund claims not covered by employee contributions. The total expense we
recognized related to this plan was $8.1 million, $7.2 million and $6.4 million
for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These expense amounts include estimates
based upon the historical experience of claims incurred but not reported as of
year-end.

(11)

Shareholders’
Equity

We
periodically access the public equity markets to fund the development and
acquisition of additional rental properties or to pay down debt. The proceeds
of these offerings are contributed to DRLP in exchange for an additional
interest in DRLP.

The
following series of preferred stock were outstanding as of December 31, 2005
(in thousands, except percentage data):


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

The
dividend rate on the Series B preferred shares increases to 9.99% after
September 12, 2012.

All
series of preferred shares require cumulative distributions and have no stated
maturity date (although we may redeem them on or following their optional
redemption dates).

At our
option, we may redeem, in whole or in part, the Series B, Series I, Series J,
Series K and Series L preferred shares described in this section.

Pursuant
to the $750 million share repurchase plan that was approved by our board of
directors, we paid approximately $297.1 million for 8,995,775 of our common
shares at an average price of $33.02 per share during the year ended December
31, 2005. From time to time, management may repurchase additional common shares
pursuant to our share repurchase plan. The timing and amount of future share
repurchases will depend on business and market conditions, as well as legal and
regulatory considerations.

In
January 2006, we issued $184 million of 6.95% Series M Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock, which replaced our $75 million 8.45% Series I Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock that we redeemed in February 2006.

(12)

Stock
Based Compensation

Our
stock based employee and non-employee compensation plans are described more
fully below. We are authorized to issue up to 11,320,552 shares of our common
stock under these compensation plans.

Fixed Stock Option
Plans

We had
options outstanding under six fixed stock option plans as of December 31, 2005.
Additional grants may be made under one of those plans.

A summary of the status
of our fixed stock option plans as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and
changes during the years ended on those dates follows:

(1)

The 110,351 options granted for modification of awards represent options
granted as a result of modification of the options outstanding at November 9,
2005. The purpose of the modification was to equalize the value of the options
before and after the one-time special dividend of $1.05 per share. This special
dividend was paid in December 2005 in order to maintain our compliance with the
minimum distribution requirements of a REIT as a result of the significant gain
realized on the Industrial Portfolio Sale discussed in Note 3. The
weighted-average fair value of options granted during the year, excluding the
options granted as a result of the modification, is $3.04.

The
fair values of the options were determined using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

The
options outstanding at December 31, 2005, under the fixed stock option plans
have a range of exercise prices from $18.30 to $33.16 with a weighted average
exercise price of $25.50 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of
6.09 years. The options exercisable at December 31, 2005 have a weighted
average exercise price of $22.65.

Each option’s maximum
term is ten years. With limited exceptions, options vest at 20% per year, or,
if earlier, upon the death, retirement or disability of the optionee or a
change in control of the Company.

Performance Based
Stock Plans

Performance shares are
granted under the 2000 Performance Share Plan, with each performance share
economically equivalent to one share of our common stock. The performance shares
vest over a five-year period with the vesting percentage for a year dependent
upon our attainment of certain predefined levels of earnings growth for such
year. The value of vested performance shares are payable in cash upon the
retirement or termination of employment of the participant. At December 31,
2005, plan participants had the right to receive up to 183,467 performance
shares, of which 84,466 were vested and 99,001 were contingent upon future
earnings achievement. Under our 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan approved in April
2005, additional performance shares may be granted on such terms and conditions
as may be selected by our compensation committee, including whether payment
will be made in cash, shares of our common stock, DRLP units or other property.
There were no such grants made in 2005.

The amount of
compensation cost was based upon the intrinsic value of the vested performance
shares at the end of each applicable reporting period. The compensation cost
that was charged against income for this plan was $1.3 million, $1.7 million
and $529,000 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

In October 2002, we
amended our 1995 Shareholder Value Plan (“SVP Plan”) and 1995 Dividend Increase
Unit Plans (“DIU Plans”) by requiring that all payouts under these two plans to
be in cash only. Payments made under this SVP Plan are based upon our
cumulative shareholder return for a three-year period as compared to the
cumulative total return of the S&P 500 and the NAREIT Equity REIT Total
Return indices. Payments under the DIU Plans are based upon increases in our
dividend per common share. The total compensation cost that was charged against
income for these two plans was $1.4 million, $2.3 million and $1.6 million for
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Our 2005 Shareholder
Value Plan, a sub-plan of our 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, was approved by
our shareholders in April 2005. Upon vesting, payout of the 2005 Shareholder
Value Plan awards will be made in shares of our common stock. Under this plan,
shareholder value awards fully vest three years after the date of grant. The
number of common shares to be issued will be based upon our total shareholder
return for such three-year period as compared to the S & P 500 Index and
the NAREIT Real Estate 50 Index. Each index is weighted at 50%. The fair value
of awards granted under our 2005 Shareholder Value Plan is $1.3 million, which
was determined using a Monte Carlo simulation. The valuation model was
developed to accommodate the unique features of the plan. The total
compensation cost that was charged against income for the 2005 Shareholder
Value Plan award was $438,000 for 2005.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Restricted Stock Units

Under our 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan and our 2005 Non-Employee Directors Compensation Plan approved
by our shareholders in April 2005, restricted stock units (“RSUs”) were granted
to non-employee directors, executive officers and selected management employees
in 2005. An RSU is economically equivalent to one share of our common stock.
RSUs vest 20% per year over five years and are payable in shares of our common
stock. We recognize the value of the granted RSUs over this vesting period as
expense. We granted 177,613 RSUs during 2005, of which 4,702 were forfeited as
a result of participant terminations and 816 were issued as a result of
participant retirement. The remaining 172,095 unvested RSUs outstanding at
December 31, 2005 had a total value of $5.5 million. Of the total value of the
RSUs outstanding, we have recognized $408,000 as compensation expense for
executive officers and selected management employees, and $71,000 as general
and administrative expense for non-employee directors through December 31,
2005.

In addition, all RSUs
earn dividend equivalents that are deemed to be reinvested in additional RSUs.
Dividend equivalents vest immediately and will be paid in shares of our common
stock when the corresponding portion of the original RSU award vests or upon
termination of the participant. Dividend equivalents of 6,474 RSUs were earned
in 2005 on the RSU awards granted during the year, of which 6,391 were
outstanding at December 31, 2005. A charge to retained earnings of $216,000 was
recorded for the value of these dividend equivalents in 2005.

Directors Stock Payment Plan

Our 2005 Non-Employee Directors Compensation Plan was
approved by our shareholders in April 2005 and supercedes our 1996 Directors’
Stock Payment Plan and our 1999 Directors’ Stock Option and Dividend Increase
Unit Plan. Under our 2005 Non-Employee Directors Compensation Plan,
non-employee members of our board of directors were entitled to 1,600 shares of
our common stock per year as partial compensation for services as a board
member. The shares are fully vested when issued and we record the value of the
shares as an expense. The amount of that expense was $585,000, $525,000 and
$415,000 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. On October 26, 2005, our Board of
Directors amended our 2005 Non-Employee Directors Compensation Plan to, among
other items, determine the number of shares of common stock granted to each
non-employee director as this partial compensation by reference to a fixed
dollar amount of $15,000 per quarter, as opposed to a fixed number of shares.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Under our Employee Stock
Purchase Plan, employees are entitled to purchase our common stock at a 15%
discount through payroll deductions. Under SFAS 123, we are required to record
the amount of the discount as compensation expense. The amount of that expense
for 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $305,000, $255,000 and $219,000, respectively.

(13)

Financial
Instruments

We are exposed to capital
market risk, such as changes in interest rates. In order to manage the
volatility relating to interest rate risk, we may enter into interest rate
hedging arrangements from time to time. We do not utilize derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We account for derivative
instruments under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities

(“SFAS 133”), as amended by SFAS No. 138,

Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and
Certain Hedging Activities

(“SFAS 138”).


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

In March 2005, we entered
into $300.0 million of cash flow hedges through forward-starting interest rate
swaps to hedge interest rates on $300.0 million of estimated debt offerings in
2006. The swaps qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, as amended by SFAS
138, with any changes in fair value recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income (“OCI”). The market value of these interest rate swaps is dependent upon
existing market interest rates, which change over time. At December 31, 2005,
the estimated fair value of the swaps was a liability of approximately $6.6
million. The effective rates of the swaps were higher than interest rates at
December 31, 2005.

In August 2005, we
entered into $300.0 million of cash flow hedges through forward-starting
interest rate swaps to hedge interest rates on $300.0 million of estimated debt
offerings in 2007. The swaps qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, as
amended by SFAS 138, with any changes in fair value recorded in OCI. At
December 31, 2005, the fair value of these swaps was an asset of $5.3 million.
The effective rates of the swaps were lower than interest rates at December 31,
2005.

In June 2004, we simultaneously
entered into three forward-starting interest rate swaps aggregating $144.3
million, which effectively fixed the rate on financing expected in 2004 at
5.346%, plus our credit spread over the swap rate. The swaps qualified for
hedge accounting under SFAS 133; therefore, changes in the fair value were
recorded in OCI. In August 2004, we settled these three swaps when we issued
$250.0 million of unsecured notes with an effective interest rate of 6.33%, due
in 2014. We paid $6.85 million to unwind the swaps, which is amortized from OCI
into interest expense over the life of the new 6.33% notes.

In December 2002, we simultaneously
entered into two $50 million forward-starting interest rate swaps as a hedge to
effectively fix the rate on unsecured debt financings expected in 2003. Then
again in February 2003, we simultaneously entered into two additional $25
million forward-starting interest rate swaps as a hedge to effectively fix the
rate on unsecured debt financings expected in 2003. All four swaps qualified
for hedge accounting under SFAS 133; therefore, changes in fair value were
recorded in OCI. In July 2003, we terminated the swaps for a net gain of
$643,000, which is included in other revenue in the Statements of Operations.
The swaps were terminated because our capital needs were met through the
issuance of the Series J Preferred Stock in lieu of the previously contemplated
issuance of debt.

In May 2003, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 150,

Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity

(“SFAS 150”). SFAS
150 establishes standards for classifying and measuring as liabilities certain
financial instruments that embody obligations of the issuer and have
characteristics of both liabilities and equity. SFAS 150 was effective for all
financial instruments created or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise was
effective July 1, 2003. We consolidated the operations of one joint venture in
our consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2005. This joint venture
is partially owned by unaffiliated parties that have noncontrolling interests.
SFAS 150 requires the disclosure of the estimated settlement value of these
noncontrolling interests. As of December 31, 2005, the estimated settlement
value of the noncontrolling interest in this consolidated joint venture was
approximately $1.1 million, as compared to the $24,000 receivable reported in
our financial statements for this joint venture.

(14)

Recent
Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, FASB
issued SFAS No. 123 (R),

Share-Based
Payment,

which is a revision of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock Based Compensation.

In
April 2005, the SEC delayed the effective date on SFAS No. 123 (R) from July
2005 to January 2006

.

We have
completed our preliminary evaluation of the impact of SFAS No. 123 (R) and have
determined that the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle will
be insignificant to our results of operations. We have selected the
modified-prospective method for the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (R).


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

In March 2005, FASB
Interpretation No. 47,

Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations

(“FIN 47”)

,

was issued for all fiscal years ending
after December 15, 2005. This is an interpretation of SFAS No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligation.

Upon evaluation, we have determined that the adoption of FIN 47 did not have a
material impact on our financial statements.

In June 2005, FASB
ratified the consensus reached in Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) No. 04-5,

Determining Whether a General Partner, or
the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar
Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights

(“EITF 04-5”).
EITF 04-5 is effective for all newly formed limited partnerships after the
consensus was ratified and as of January 2006 for all preexisting limited
partnership agreements. This consensus applies to limited partnerships or
similar entities, such as limited liability companies that have governing
provisions that are the functional equivalent of a limited partnership. We have
evaluated the ownership structure of our existing investments in unconsolidated
companies and determined that we do not exercise control over any
unconsolidated ventures as defined by EITF 04-5.

(15)

Commitments
and Contingencies

In October 2000, we sold
or contributed industrial properties and undeveloped land with a fair value of
$487 million to a joint venture (Dugan Realty LLC) in which we have a 50%
interest and recognized a net gain of $35.2 million. This transaction expanded
an existing joint venture with an institutional real estate investor. As a
result of the total transactions, we received $363.9 million of proceeds. The
joint venture partially financed this transaction with $350 million of secured
mortgage debt, the repayment of which we directly or indirectly guaranteed. The
guarantee associated with $260 million of such debt expired in December 2003
without us being required to satisfy the guarantee. The remaining $90 million
of such debt is still guaranteed by us. In connection with this transaction,
the joint venture partners were given an option to put up to a $50 million
interest in the joint venture to us in exchange for our common stock or cash
(at our option), subject to certain timing and other restrictions. As a result
of this put option, we deferred $10.2 million of gain on sale of depreciated
property and recorded a $50 million liability.

We have guaranteed the
repayment of $12.3 million of economic development bonds issued by various
municipalities in connection with certain commercial developments. We will be
required to make payments under our guarantees to the extent that incremental
taxes from specified developments are not sufficient to pay the bond debt
service. Management does not believe that it is probable that we will be
required to make any significant payments in satisfaction of these guarantees.

We also have guaranteed
the repayment of a $2 million mortgage loan encumbering the real estate of one
of our unconsolidated joint ventures. At December 31, 2005, the outstanding
balance on this loan was approximately $1.2 million. Management believes that
the value of the real estate exceeds the loan balance and that we will not be
required to satisfy this guarantee.

We evaluated all
applicable guarantees under FASB Interpretation 45 (“FIN 45”) in order to
determine whether there is a need to recognize a liability for the obligations
under the guarantees. Based upon our review, no liability was recorded at
December 31, 2005.

We have entered into
agreements, subject to the completion of due diligence requirements, resolution
of certain contingencies and completion of customary closing conditions, for
the future acquisition of land totaling $65.0 million. We also have entered
into an agreement to acquire an 18 building portfolio for approximately $194.1
million, which is expected to close in 2006.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

We renewed all of our
major insurance policies in 2005. These policies include coverage for acts of
terrorism for our properties. We believe that this insurance provides adequate
coverage against normal insurance risks and that any loss experienced would not
have a significant impact on our liquidity, financial position, or results of
operations.

We are subject to various
legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of management, the amount of
any ultimate liability with respect to these actions will not materially affect
our consolidated financial statements or results of operations.

(16)

Subsequent
Events

In January 2006, we
announced the acquisition of approximately 5.1 million square feet of bulk
industrial properties located at the Port of Savannah for a total purchase
price of approximately $194.1 million. The portfolio consists of 18 buildings
and is located near one of the fastest growing ports in the country. The
properties are 100% leased with a weighted average lease term of 7.5 years.
This transaction makes us the largest industrial property owner in the Savannah
area and complements our industrial holdings across the Southeast. In addition,
we have the option to acquire future completed development projects on 400
acres of land in the same market.

In January 2006, we
issued $184 million of 6.95% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
which replaced our $75 million 8.45% Series I Preferred Stock that we redeemed
in February 2006.

In January 2006, we
renewed our unsecured revolving credit facility. The new facility provides
borrowing capacity up to $1 billion and, subject to certain conditions, may be
increased to $1.3 billion. Under the new facility, which replaces the previous
unsecured line of credit agreement, the interest rate has been reduced to LIBOR
plus 52.5 basis points, the borrowing capacity has been increased by $500
million and the maturity date has been extended to January 25, 2010.

In
February 2006, we issued $125.0 million of 5.5% senior notes due 2016.

In February 2006, we
acquired 27 suburban office and light industrial buildings, encompassing more
than 2.3 million square feet from the Mark Winkler Company for $619.0 million.
The 27 buildings are part of a 32 building portfolio located in three primary
submarkets in Northern Virginia. We will close on the remaining five buildings
in the portfolio throughout the first and second quarters of 2006. In addition to
the 27 buildings we also closed on approximately 166 acres of undeveloped land
located in major business parks that can support the future development of
approximately 3.7 million square feet of office and industrial buildings. In
connection with the acquisition, we obtained a $700 million secured term loan
priced at LIBOR plus 52.5 basis points with a scheduled maturity date of
September 2006. Subject to Lender’s approval, the maturity date may be extended
to March 2007.
















(1)

Depreciation of real estate
is computed using the straight-line method over 40 years for buildings, 15
years for land improvements and shorter periods based on lease terms (generally
3 to 10 years) for tenant improvements.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.


* By Dennis D. Oklak,
  Attorney-in-Fact

/s/
  Dennis D. Oklak

92