10-K405


j3192_10k405.htm

10-K405

UNITED STATES

UNITED

STATES

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,

D.C.  20549

FORM

10-K

(Mark

One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION

  13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For

the fiscal year ended

December 31,


OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO

  SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES

  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For

the transition period from                     

to                      .

Commission

File Number:

1-9044

DUKE

REALTY CORPORATION

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the

Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the

Act:

Depositary

Shares, each representing a 1/10 interest in 7.99% Series B Cumulative

Redeemable Preferred Shares ($.01 par value)

Indicate

by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed

by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the

preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was

required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing

requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to

Item 405 Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to

the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information

statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any

amendment to this Form 10-K.

ý

The

aggregate market value of the voting shares of the Registrant’s outstanding

common shares held by non-affiliates of the Registrant is $3.1 billion based on

the last reported sale price on March 1, 2002.

The

number of  Common Shares outstanding as

of March 1, 2002 was 131,778,894 ($.01 par value).

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions

of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders

to be held on April 24, 2002, are incorporated by reference in Part III of this

Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Form 10-K

PART I

Item 1.  Business

Duke

Realty Corporation (the “Company”) is a self-administered and self-managed real

estate investment trust (“REIT”). The Company began operations upon completion

of its initial public offering in February 1986. In October 1993, the Company

completed an additional common stock offering and acquired the rental real

estate and service businesses of Duke Associates, whose operations began in

1972. As of December 31, 2001, the Company’s diversified portfolio of 913

rental properties (including 25 properties totaling 4.7 million square feet

under development) encompass over 107 million rentable square feet and are

leased by a diverse and stable base of approximately 4,500 tenants whose

businesses include manufacturing, retailing, wholesale trade, distribution and

professional services. The Company also owns or controls more than 4,200 acres

of unencumbered land ready for development.

The

Company, through its Service Operations, also provides, on a fee basis,

leasing, property and asset management, development, construction,

build-to-suit, and other tenant-related services for approximately 400 tenants

in over 8 million square feet of space at properties owned by third-party

clients. With 13 primary operating platforms, the Company concentrates its

activities in the Midwest and Southeast United States. See Item 7,

“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of

Operations” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for

financial information. The Company’s rental operations are conducted through

Duke Realty Limited Partnership (“DRLP”). In addition, the Company conducts its

Service Operations through Duke Realty Services Limited Partnership (“DRSLP”)

and Duke Construction Limited Partnership (“DCLP”), in which the Company’s

wholly-owned subsidiary, Duke Services, Inc., is the sole general partner. All

references to the “Company” in this Form 10-K Report include the Company and

those entities owned or controlled by the Company, unless the context indicates

otherwise.

The

Company’s headquarters and executive offices are located in Indianapolis,

Indiana. In addition, the Company has twelve regional offices located in

Atlanta, Georgia; Cincinnati, Ohio; Columbus, Ohio; Cleveland, Ohio; Chicago,

Illinois; Dallas, Texas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Nashville, Tennessee; Orlando,

Florida; Raleigh, North Carolina; St. Louis, Missouri and Tampa, Florida. The

Company had 1,050 employees as of December 31, 2001.

Business Strategy

The

Company’s business objective is to increase its Funds From Operations (“FFO”)

by (i) maintaining and increasing property occupancy and rental rates through

the aggressive management of its portfolio of existing properties; (ii)

expanding existing properties; (iii) developing and acquiring new properties;

and (iv) providing a full line of real estate services to the Company’s tenants

and to third-parties. FFO is defined by the National Association of Real Estate

Investment Trusts as net income or loss, excluding gains or losses from debt

restructuring and sales of depreciated property, plus operating property

depreciation and amortization and adjustments for minority interest and

unconsolidated companies on the same basis. While management believes that FFO

is a relevant measure of the Company’s operating performance because it is

widely used by industry analysts to measure the operating performance of equity

REITs, such amount does not represent cash flow from operations as defined by

generally accepted accounting principles, should not be considered as an

alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company’s operating

performance, and is not indicative of cash available to fund all cash flow

needs. As a fully integrated commercial real estate firm, the Company believes

that its in-house leasing, management,


development

and construction services and the Company’s significant base of commercially

zoned and unencumbered land in existing business parks should give the Company

a competitive advantage in its future development activities.

The

Company believes that the analysis of real estate opportunities and risks can

be done most effectively at regional or local levels. As a result, the Company

intends to continue its emphasis on increasing its market share and effective

rents in its primary markets where it owns properties. The Company also expects

to utilize its more than 4,200 acres of unencumbered land and its many business

relationships with nearly 4,500 commercial tenants to expand its build-to-suit

business (development projects substantially pre-leased to a single tenant) and

to pursue other development and acquisition opportunities in its primary markets.

The Company believes that this regional focus will allow it to assess market

supply and demand for real estate more effectively as well as to capitalize on

its strong relationships with its tenant base.

The

Company’s policy is to seek to develop and acquire Class A commercial

properties located in markets with high growth potential for Fortune 500

companies and other quality regional and local firms. The Company’s industrial

and suburban office development focuses on business parks and mixed-use developments  suitable for development of multiple

projects on a single site where the Company can create and control the business

environment. These business parks and mixed-use developments generally include

restaurants and other amenities which the Company believes will create an

atmosphere that is particularly efficient and desirable. The Company’s retail

development focuses on community, power and neighborhood centers in its

existing markets. As a fully integrated real estate company, the Company is able

to arrange for or provide to its industrial, office and retail tenants not only

well located and well maintained facilities, but also additional services such

as build-to-suit construction, tenant finish construction, expansion

flexibility and advertising and marketing services.

All

of the Company’s properties are located in areas that include competitive

properties. Such properties are generally owned by institutional investors,

other REITs or local real estate operators; however, no single competitor or small

group of competitors is dominant in the Company’s current markets. The supply

and demand of similar available rental properties may affect the rental rates

the Company will receive on its properties.

Financing Strategy

The

Company seeks to maintain a well-balanced, conservative and flexible capital

structure by: (i) currently targeting a ratio of long-term debt to total market

capitalization in the range of 25% to 40%; (ii) extending and sequencing the

maturity dates of its debt; (iii) borrowing primarily at fixed rates; (iv)

generally pursuing current and future long-term debt financings and

refinancings on an unsecured basis; and (v) maintaining conservative debt

service and fixed charge coverage ratios. Management believes that these

strategies have enabled and should continue to enable the Company to access the

debt and equity capital markets for their long-term requirements such as debt

refinancings and financing development and acquisitions of additional rental

properties. In addition, as discussed under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion

and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the Company has

$650 million in unsecured lines of credit and a $100 million secured line of

credit available for short-term fundings of development and acquisition of

additional rental properties. In addition to debt and equity capital markets,

the Company has developed a strategy to pursue favorable opportunities to

dispose of assets that no longer meet the Company’s long-term investment

criteria and re-deploy the proceeds into new investments that the Company

believes have excellent long-term growth prospects. See additional discussion

under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and

Results of Operations.” The


Company’s

debt to total market capitalization ratio (total market capitalization is

defined as the total market value of all outstanding Common and Preferred

Shares and units of limited partnership interest (“Units”) in DRLP plus

outstanding indebtedness) at December 31, 2001 was 29.5%. The Company’s ratio

of earnings to debt service and ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the year

ended December 31, 2001 were 2.82x and 1.99x, respectively. In computing the ratio

of earnings to debt service, earnings have been calculated by adding debt

service to income before gains or losses on property sales and minority

interest in earnings of DRLP. Debt service consists of interest expense and

recurring principal amortization (excluding maturities) and excludes

amortization of debt issuance costs. In computing the ratio of earnings to

fixed charges, earnings have been calculated by adding fixed charges, excluding

capitalized interest, to income before gains or losses on property sales and

minority interest in earnings of DRLP. Fixed charges consist of interest costs,

whether expensed or capitalized, the interest component of rental expense,

amortization of debt issuance costs and preferred stock dividend requirements.

Other

The

Company’s operations are not dependent on a single or few customers as no

single customer accounts for more than 1.7% of the Company’s total revenue. The

Company’s operations are not subject to any significant seasonal fluctuations.

The Company believes it is in compliance with environmental regulations and

does not anticipate material effects of continued compliance.

For

additional information regarding the Company’s investments and operations, see

Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and

Results of Operations,” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary

Data.” For additional information about the Company’s business segments, see

Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Item 2.  Properties

Product Review

As

of December 31, 2001, the Company owns an interest in a diversified portfolio

of 913 commercial  properties

encompassing over 107 million net rentable square feet (including 25 properties  comprising 4.7 million square feet under

development) and more than 4,200 acres of land for future development.

Industrial Properties:

The Company owns interests in 663 industrial

properties encompassing approximately 81.8 million square feet (76% of total

square feet) more specifically described as follows:

•

Bulk Warehouses —

Industrial warehouse/distribution buildings with

clear ceiling heights of 20 feet or more. The Company owns 435 buildings

totaling 67.8 million square feet of such properties.

•

Service Centers —

Also known as flex buildings or light industrial,

this product type has 12-18 foot clear ceiling heights and a combination of

drive-up and dock-height loading access. The Company owns 228 buildings

totaling 14.0 million square feet of such properties.

Office Properties:

The

Company owns interests in 239 office buildings totaling approximately 25.0

million square feet (23% of total square feet) more specifically described as

follows:

•

Suburban Office —

The Company owns 235 suburban office buildings

totaling 24.1 million square feet.

•

CBD Office —

The Company owns four downtown office projects

totaling approximately 861,000 square feet.

Retail Properties:

The

Company owns interests in 11 retail projects totaling approximately 840,000

square feet (1% of total square feet). These properties encompass both power

and neighborhood shopping centers.


Land:

The Company owns or controls

more than 4,200 acres of land located primarily in its existing business parks.

The land is ready for immediate use and is unencumbered by debt. Over 64

million square feet of additional space can be developed on these sites and all

of the land is zoned for either office, industrial or retail development.

Service Operations:

The

Company provides property and asset management, development, leasing and

construction services to third party owners in addition to its own properties.

The Company’s current property management base for third parties includes over

8.6 million square feet of properties serving approximately 400 tenants.

Property Descriptions

The

Company’s properties are described on the following pages:

















[1]   The Company retains the indicated effective

ownership interest in an entity which owns the building.  The Company shares in the profit or loss

from such building in accordance with the Company’s ownership.

[2]   These buildings are owned by a partnership

in which the Company is a partner. The Company owns a 10% capital interest in

the partnership and receives a 50% interest in the residual cash flow after

payment of a 9%  preferred return to the

other partner on its capital interest.

[3]   The Company owns the building and has a

leasehold interest in the land underlying this building with a lease term

expiring in 2048 or later.

[4]   These are properties for which there are

loans to owners which fully encumber the properties.  Under the terms of the loans, the Company effectively receives

all income and economic value from the properties.  As a result, the properties are accounted for as owned

properties.

[5]  The Company has a leasehold interest in the

building and the underlying land with a lease term expiring June 2020.  The Company has an option to purchase the

fee interest in the property throughout the term of the lease.

[6] This building is

owned by a partnership in which the Company’s ownership percentage will be

between 60 and 65%.  The Company will

receive a 12% preferred return on its equity, with any excess cash flow

received in accordance  with the

ownership interest.

Item 3.  Legal

Proceedings

The Company is not party to any claims or litigation

that it believes the results, individually or in the aggregate, will have a

material adverse affect on its business, financial position or results of

operations.


Item 4.  Submission of

Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No

matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter

of the year ended December 31, 2001.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Howard L. Feinsand,

age 54

.

Mr. Feinsand has served as the Company’s

Executive Vice President, Acquisitions/Disposition, and General Counsel since

1999.  He directs the Company’s

acquisition and disposition activities and oversees its legal department.  Mr. Feinsand has served on the Company's

Board of Directors since 1988 and has served on the Duke Investment Committee

since 1999.  From 1996 until 1999, Mr.

Feinsand was the founder and principal of Choir Capital Ltd.  From 1995 until 1996, he was Managing

Director of Citicorp North America, Inc. 

He was the Senior Vice President and Manager-Capital Markets, Pricing

and Investor Programs of GE Capital Aviation Services, Inc., an aircraft

leasing company, from 1989 to 1995.

Robert M. Chapman,

age 48

.

Mr. Chapman has served as the Company’s

Executive Vice President, Southern Region, since 2000. He is responsible for

the Company’s Atlanta, Orlando, Tampa, Raleigh and Dallas property

portfolios.  Mr. Chapman was previously

the Company’s Executive Vice President of the Atlanta/Texas region from 1999 to

2000, and its Executive Vice President of Acquisitions and Dispositions from

1997 to 1999. Before joining the Company in 1997, he served as Senior Vice

President and Portfolio Manager for The RREEF Funds. Prior to that, Mr. Chapman

was employed by Gerald Hines Interests and Lincoln Property Company.

Darell E. Zink, Jr

.,

age 55

Mr. Zink joined the Company in 1982.  He is the Executive Vice President and Chief

Financial Officer of the Company and is responsible for all accounting,

administrative and financial reporting functions for Duke Realty.  He is a Director of the Company and has

served on the Company Investment Committee for 24 years.

Thomas L. Hefner,

age 55

.  Mr.

Hefner has been Chairman of the Company since 1998, and its Chief Executive

Officer since 1993.  He joined the

Company’s predecessor, Duke Associates, as Managing General Partner in 1981 and

became President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company in 1993.  Mr. Hefner is a member of the Board of

Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investments Trust, the

Board of Directors of the Central Indiana Corporate Partnership, the Board of

Directors of the Nature Conservancy of Indiana, the Dean’s Advisory Council of

Purdue University’s Krannert School of Business and the Board of Directors of

Project e.

Richard W. Horn,

age 44

.  Mr. Horn

has been President of the Company since July 2000.  From 1997 to 1999, he was the Company’s Executive Vice President,

Office.  In this role, he was responsible

for oversight of the Company’s office properties.  From 1999 to 2000, Mr. Horn was the Company’s Executive Vice

President of the Midwest Office, and from 1995 to 1997, he served as its Vice

President of Acquisitions.  Mr. Horn

joined the Company as a leasing representative in 1984 and later served as

Marketing Director for Duke’s Cincinnati, Ohio properties.  In 1988, he was named Vice President of

Michigan and Tennessee Operations and in 1993 he became Vice President of

Acquisitions.

Gary A. Burk, age


.  Mr. Burk is

Executive Vice President of the Company, responsible for its construction

operations.  Since 1984, he has been

responsible for directing all of the Company’s construction operating units,

including pre-construction services, project management, field operations,

tenant finish and other construction services throughout the Midwest and

Southeast.  Mr. Burk has 27 years of

construction and management experience.


Dennis D. Oklak,

age 48

.  Mr. Oklak

has been Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the

Company since 1997.  In this role, he

supervises the accounting and tax activities and also the information

technology, human resources and tenant services.  From 1993 to 1997, he served as the Company’s Vice President and

Treasurer.  Mr. Oklak joined the Company

in 1986 as Tax Manager and was later named Controller of development companies

before being named Vice President and Treasurer.  In that position, he served as the Chief Accounting Officer with

responsibility for financial reporting in public offerings of securities,

assisting the vice presidents of each business unit with deal structuring and

supervising all financial aspects of the Company.

William E. Linville,

III, age 47

.  Mr.

Linville has been Executive Vice President, Midwest Region, for the Company

since March 2001.  In this role, he has

responsibility for Indiana, Columbus, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Minneapolis and

St. Louis operations.  From 1994 until

March 2001, Mr. Linville led the Company’s Midwest Industrial Group.  In that role, he oversaw the creation,

development and operations of nearly 50 development parks across the Midwest.  He originally joined the Company in 1987 as

head of its Indiana Industrial Group.

PART II

Item 5.  Market for

the Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

The Company’s

common shares are listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, symbol

DRE. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of the common

stock for the periods indicated and the dividend paid per share during each

such period.  Comparable cash dividends

are expected in the future. As of March 1, 2002, there were 10,865 record holders

of common shares.

On January 30,

2002, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.45 per share, payable

on February 28, 2002, to common shareholders of record on February 12, 2002.

A summary of the

tax characterization of the dividends paid per common share for the years ended

December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 follows:

Dividends per common

share of $1.34, $1.26 and $1.23 were required for the Company to maintain its

REIT status in 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively.


Item 6.  Selected

Consolidated Financial Data

The following sets

forth selected consolidated financial and operating information on a historical

basis for the Company for each of the years in the five-year period ended

December 31, 2001. The following information should be read in conjunction with

Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and

Results of Operations” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary

Data” included in this Form 10-K (in thousands, except per share amounts):

(1)  Funds From Operations is defined by the

National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts as net income or loss,

excluding gains or losses from debt restructuring and sales of depreciated

property, plus operating property depreciation and amortization and adjustments

for minority interest and unconsolidated  companies

on the same basis. Funds From Operations does not  represent cash flow from opera-tions as defined by generally

accepted accounting principles, should not be considered as an alternative to

net income as an indicator of the Company’s operating performance, and is not

indicative of cash available to fund all cash flow needs.

Item 7.  Management’s

Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Business Overview

Certain statements in this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of

Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” including those related to the

Company’s future operations, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the

meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section

21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking

statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important

factors that could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the

Company, or industry results, to differ materially from any future results,

performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking

statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other important factors include,

among others: general economic and business conditions; continued qualification

as a real estate investment trust; competition for tenants; increases in real

estate construction costs; interest rates, accessibility of debt and equity

capital markets and other risks inherent in the real estate business including

tenant defaults, potential liability relating to environmental matters and

liquidity of real


estate investments. The words “believe,” “estimate,” “expect” and

similar expressions or statements regarding future periods are intended to

identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are

inherently uncertain as they involve substantial risks and uncertainties beyond

the Company’s control. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise

any forward-looking statements for events or circumstance after the date on

which such statement is made. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is

not possible for the Company to predict all such factors. Further, the Company

cannot assess the impact of each such factor on its business or the extent to

which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ

materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.

The Company’s operating results depend primarily upon income from the

Rental Operations of its industrial, office and retail properties located in

its primary markets. This rental income is substantially influenced by the

supply and demand for the Company’s rental space in its primary markets. In

addition, the Company’s continued growth is dependent upon its ability to

maintain occupancy rates and increase rental rates of its in-service portfolio.

The Company’s strategy for continued growth also includes developing and

acquiring additional rental properties in its primary markets and expanding

into other attractive markets.

For the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company’s rental revenue grew

by only 2%, substantially below historical trends. This slowdown in growth

resulted from a combination of a slower economy reducing overall portfolio

occupancy and the sale of over $500 million of assets in 2001, which was used primarily

to pay down debt. While these events have affected growth and related rental

income, the Company has excellent liquidity and financial flexibility (See

additional discussion under Liquidity and Capital Resources). With a debt to

market capitalization ratio of 29.5% and only $120 million drawn on its $650

million unsecured lines of credit as of December 31, 2001, the Company is well

positioned to make future opportunistic real estate investments. Additionally,

the Company has experienced continued demand for third party construction

services through its Service Operations and has significantly lowered its

corporate general and administrative expenses to offset the reductions in

rental income.

As noted above, the Company’s operating results depend primarily upon

income from the Rental Operations of its industrial, office and retail

properties. The following highlights the areas of Rental Operations that the

Company considers critical for future revenue growth (all square footage totals

and occupancy percentages reflect 100% of both wholly-owned properties and

properties in joint ventures that the Company has ownership interests):

Same Property Performance:

The Company tracks same property performance,

which compares those properties that were in-service for all of a two-year

period. In 2001, net operating income from the same property portfolio

increased 4.4% over 2000, compared to 4.2% growth in 2000 over 1999.

Occupancy Analysis:

The following table sets forth information

regarding the Company’s in-service portfolio of rental properties as of

December 31, 2001 (square feet in thousands):

Lease Expiration:

The following table reflects the Company’s

in-service lease expiration schedule as of December 31, 2001, by product type

indicating square footage and annualized net effective rents under expiring

leases (in thousands, except per square foot amounts):


Future Development:

The Company also expects to realize

growth in earnings from Rental Operations through the development and

acquisition of additional rental properties in its primary markets.

Specifically, the Company has 4.7 million square feet of properties under

development at December 31, 2001. These properties under development should

provide future earnings through Service Operations income upon sale or from

Rental Operations growth as they are placed in service as follows (in

thousands, except percent leased and stabilized returns):

Lease Renewals:

The

Company renewed 70.1 percent of leases up for renewal in 2001, totaling 7.4

million square feet on which it attained an 11.6 percent growth in net

effective rent.  This compares to renewals

of 76.8 percent in 2000, totaling 8.9 million square feet and 7.4 percent

growth in net effective rent.

Results of Operations

A summary of the

Company’s operating results and property statistics for each of the years in

the three-year period ended December 31, 2001, is as follows (in thousands,

except number of properties and per share amounts):


Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2001 to Year

Ended December 31, 2000

Rental Operations

Rental

Operations revenue increased to $723.3 million from $711.8 million for the year

ended December 31, 2001, compared to the same period in 2000. Rental Operations

revenue is driven by rental income from held for rental properties (“Rental

Income”) and equity in earnings from unconsolidated companies (“Equity in

earnings”). Rental Income decreased from $697.3 million in 2000 to $692.0

million in 2001. This decrease is the result of an overall decrease in

occupancy of in-service properties from 93.6 percent at December 31, 2000, to

88.6 percent at December 31, 2001. Also contributing to the decline in Rental

Income is the effects of the Company’s property dispositions. During 2000 and

2001, the Company sold approximately $1 billion of held for investment rental

properties from its in-service portfolio. A majority of these properties were

over 90% leased and the new developments placed in-service over the same time

period were leased at lower percentages and, therefore, the Company realized

less rental income. The effects of the decreased occupancy and property sales

were somewhat mitigated by the Company recognizing $17.5 million of lease

termination fees in 2001, compared to $7.0 million in 2000.

Equity

in earnings increased from $14.6 million in 2000 to $31.4 million for

2001.  This increase is mainly the

result of the Company selling a significant number of properties to two 50%

owned joint ventures in the fourth quarter of 2000. The Company recognized

$14.8 million of additional equity in earnings in 2001 associated with these

two ventures.

The

following is a summary of the Company’s in-service portfolio since January 1,

2000:


Rental and real estate tax expenses increased in 2001 over 2000

generally due to increasing operating costs of the Company’s properties. These

increases were mitigated by the timing of sales of properties throughout the

year.

The $20.1 million decrease in interest expense is primarily

attributable to lower outstanding balances on the Company’s lines of credit

associated with the financing of the Company’s investment and operating

activities. The Company has maintained a significantly lower balance on its

lines of credit throughout 2001 compared to 2000, as a result of its property

dispositions proceeds used to fund future development, combined with a lower

development level as a result of the slower economy. Additionally, the Company

paid off $128.5 million of secured mortgage loans throughout 2001, as well as

an $85 million unsecured term loan. These decreases were partially offset by an

increase in interest expense on unsecured debt as a result of the Company

issuing $175.0 million of debt in February 2001, as well as a decrease in the

amount of interest capitalized in 2001 versus 2000, due to the decrease in

development activity by the Company.

As a result of the above-mentioned items, earnings from Rental

Operations increased $31.3 million from $226.4 million for the year ended

December 31, 2000, to $257.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001.

Service

Operations

Service Operations

revenues decreased from $82.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, to

$80.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The Company experienced a

decrease of $4.3 million in net general contractor revenues from third party

jobs due to a decrease in the volume of construction in 2001, compared to 2000,

as well as slightly lower profit margins. This decrease is the effect of

businesses delaying or terminating plans to expand in the wake of the slowed

economy as noted above in the Business Overview section.

Property management,

maintenance and leasing fee revenues decreased approximately $2.7 million due

mainly to a decrease in landscaping maintenance revenue associated with the

sale of the landscape business in the third quarter of 2001 (see discussion

below).

Construction management

and development activity income represent construction and development fees

earned on projects where the Company acts as the construction manager, and

profits from the Company’s held for sale program whereby the Company develops a

property in DCLP, and, upon completion, sells the property to a third party.

The increase in revenues of $2.2 million in 2001 is primarily due to an

increase in profits on the sale of properties from the held for sale program.

Other income increased

approximately $2.4 million in 2001 over 2000, due to a $1.8 million gain the

Company recognized on the sale of its landscape business in the third quarter

of 2001.  The sale of the landscape

business resulted in a total net profit of over $9 million after deducting all

related expenses. This gain will be recognized in varying amounts over the next

seven years due to the Company’s on-going contract to provide future services

to the buyer.

Service Operations

expenses decreased by $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001,

compared to the same period in 2000, as the Company reduced total overhead

costs throughout 2001 in an effort to minimize the effects of decreased

construction and development activity. The primary savings were experienced in

employee salary and related costs due to personnel reductions and reduced

overhead costs from the sale of the landscaping business.


As a result, earnings

from Service Operations increased from $32.8 million for the year ended

December 31, 2000, to $35.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001.

General and

Administrative Expense

General and

Administrative Expense decreased from $21.1 million in 2000 to $15.6 million

for the year ended December 31, 2001, due to overhead cost reduction efforts.

In late 2000 and continuing throughout 2001, the Company introduced several

cost cutting measures to reduce the amount of overhead, including headcount

reduction, centralization of responsibilities and streamlining of employee

costs such as travel and entertainment.

Other Income and Expenses

Gain on sale of land and depreciable property dispositions, net of

impairment allowance, is comprised of the following amounts in 2001 and 2000:

Gain on sales of depreciable properties represent sales of previously

held for investment rental properties. Beginning in 2000 and continuing into 2001,

the Company has pursued favorable opportunities to dispose of real estate

assets that no longer meet long-term investment objectives. In conjunction with

this disposition strategy, included in net real estate investments are 12

buildings with a net book value of $122.8 million that were classified as held

for sale by the Company at December 31, 2001. The Company expects to complete

these and other dispositions and use the proceeds to fund future investments in

real estate assets.

Gain on land sales represents sales of undeveloped land owned by the

Company. The Company pursues opportunities to dispose of land in markets with a

high concentration of undeveloped land and those markets where the land no

longer meets strategic development plans of the Company.

The Company recorded a $4.8 million asset impairment adjustment in 2001

on a single property that is expected to be sold in early 2002.  The Company has analyzed each of its

in-service properties and has determined that there are no additional valuation

adjustments that need to be made as of December 31, 2001.  The Company will evaluate its in-service

portfolio on a continuing basis.

Other expense for the year ended December 31, 2001, includes a $1.4

million expense related to an interest rate swap that does not qualify for

hedge accounting under FASB SFAS 133.

Net Income Available for Common Shares

Net income available for common shares for the year ended December 31,

2001 was $230.0 million compared to $213.0 million for the year ended December

31, 2000. This increase results primarily from the operating result

fluctuations in Rental and Service Operations and earnings from sales of real

estate assets explained above.


Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2000 to Year

Ended December 31, 1999

Rental Operations

Rental

Operations revenue increased to $711.8 million from $535.6 million for the year

ended December 31, 2000, compared to the same period in 1999.  This increase is primarily due to the increase

in the number of in-service properties during the respective periods.  As of December 31, 2000, the Company had 913

properties in service compared to 865 properties at December 31, 1999.  The following is a summary of the Company’s

acquisition and development activity since January 1, 1999:

Rental property, real estate tax and depreciation and amortization

expenses increased for the year ended December 31, 2000, compared to the same

period in 1999, due to the increase in the number of in-service properties

during the respective periods.

The $47.2 million increase in interest expense is primarily

attributable to higher outstanding debt balances associated with the financing

of the Company’s investment activities. The increased balances include $450

million of unsecured debt issued in 1999, the assumption of $185 million of

secured debt and $287 million of unsecured debt in the merger with Weeks

Corporation in July 1999, and increased borrowings on the Company’s lines of

credit.  These higher borrowing costs

were partially offset by the capitalization of interest on increased property

development activities.

As a result of the above-mentioned items, earnings from Rental

Operations increased $31.0 million from $195.4 million for the year ended December

31, 1999, to $226.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000.

Service Operations

Service Operations

revenues increased by $28.8 million from $54.0 million for the year ended

December 31, 1999, to $82.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000,

primarily as a result of increases in construction and development income from

increased third-party construction and revenues from the development and sale

profits of build-to-suit properties.

Service Operations

operating expenses increased from $36.2 million in 1999 to $50.0 million for

the year ended December 31, 2000, due to the overall growth of the Company and

the increased portfolio of buildings associated with this growth, and the

significant increase in construction and development activity in 2000.


As a result, earnings

from Service Operations increased from $17.9 million for the year ended

December 31, 1999, to $32.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000.

General and Administrative Expense

General and Administrative Expense increased from $16.6 million in 1999

to $21.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, due to an increase in

corporate expenses associated with overall growth of the Company and effects of

a full year’s operations resulting from the merger with Weeks Corporation in

July 1999.

Other Income and Expenses

Interest income increased from $2.7 million for the year ended December

31, 1999, to $6.9 million for the same period in 2000 primarily through

earnings on funds deposited in tax deferred exchange escrows of $3.6 million.

The Company has a disposition strategy to pursue favorable

opportunities to dispose of real estate assets that no longer meet long-term

investment objectives of the Company, which resulted in net sales proceeds of

$413.8 million and a net gain of $60.7 million for the year ended December 31,

2000. In conjunction with this disposition strategy, included in net real

estate investments are 28 buildings with a net book value of $112.0 million that

were classified as held for sale by the Company at December 31, 2000.

Net Income Available for Common Shares

Net income available for common shares for the year ended December 31,

2000 was $213.0 million compared to $139.6 million for the year ended December

31, 1999. This increase results primarily from the operating result

fluctuations in rental and service operations and earnings from sales of real

estate assets explained above.

Summary of

Critical Accounting Policies

Management of the Company considers the following accounting policies

to be critical to the reported operations of the Company:

Principles

of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the

Company and its majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries. The equity interests

in these majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries not owned by the Company are

reflected as minority interests in the consolidated financial statements. All

significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated

financial statements. Investments in entities that the Company does not control

through majority voting interest or where the other owner has substantial

participating rights are not consolidated and are reflected as investments in

unconsolidated companies. Control is demonstrated by the ability of the general

partner to manage day-to-day operations, refinance debt and sell the assets of

the partnership without the consent of the limited partner and inability of the

limited partner to replace the general partner.

Real

Estate Investments

All direct and indirect costs, including interest and real estate taxes

clearly associated with the development, construction, leasing or expansion of

real estate investments are capitalized as a cost of the property. Included in

indirect costs is an estimate of internal costs associated with development and

rental of real estate investments. All external costs associated with the

acquisition of real estate investments are capitalized as a cost of the

property.


The Company evaluates its real estate investments to be held and used

upon occurrence of significant changes in the operations, but not less than

annually, to assess whether any impairment indications are present, including

recurring operating losses and significant adverse changes in legal factors or

business climate that affect the recovery of the recorded value. If any real

estate investment is considered impaired, a loss is provided to reduce the carrying

value of the property to its estimated fair value. Real estate investments to

be disposed of are reported at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value

less cost to sell. The evaluation of real estate investments involves many

subjective assumptions dependent upon future economic events that affect the

ultimate value of the property.

Service Operations Revenue

The Company recognizes income on long-term construction contracts on

the percentage of completion method. Using this method, profits are recorded on

the basis of the Company’s estimates of the percentage of completion of

individual contracts, commencing when progress reaches a point where experience

is sufficient to estimate final results with reasonable accuracy. That portion

of the estimated earnings is accrued on the basis of the Company’s estimates of

the percentage of completion based on contract expenditures incurred and work

performed.

Valuation of Receivables

The Company is subject to tenant defaults and bankruptcies that could

affect the collection of outstanding receivables. In order to mitigate these

risks, the Company performs credit review and analysis on all tenants and all

significant leases before they are executed. The Company evaluates the

collectibility of outstanding receivables and records allowances as

appropriate.

Liquidity and

Capital Resources

Financial

Flexibility

During 2000 and continuing into 2001, the real estate industry

experienced a reduced supply of new common equity capital, which generally

decreased the level of new investment activity by real estate companies. While

the Company has been subject to these capital market conditions, management

believes the Company’s financial and liquidity position is strong. Over the

years, the Company has carefully managed its balance sheet in an effort to

avoid liquidity issues in any given quarter or year. In management’s view, this

should provide a competitive advantage in the current capital constrained

market over many of its competitors. Following are three key indicators that

demonstrate the overall strength of the Company’s financial position.

First, the Company believes that its principal source of liquidity,

cash flows from Rental Operations, provides a stable source of cash to fund

necessary requirements. The Company believes that this cash based revenue

stream is properly aligned with revenue recognition as cash receipts for rental

properties are generally received in a short time following the actual revenue

recognition. The Company is subject to risks of decreased occupancy due to

market conditions as well as tenant defaults and bankruptcies.  However, management believes that these

risks are mitigated by the Company’s strong market presence in most of its

locations and the fact that the Company performs in-house credit review and

analysis on all tenants and all significant leases before they are executed.

This latter point is supported by the fact that in 2001, the Company’s bad debt

expense totaled only one-half of one percent of total rental revenues. Secondly,

the Company has maintained a conservative balance sheet with a debt-to-total

market capitalization of 29.5% at December 31, 2001. Thirdly, as of December

31, 2001, the Company has a total of $530.0 million of undrawn capacity on its

existing


unsecured lines of credit to meet its short-term obligations. The

de-leveraging of the balance sheet over the past two years has strengthened the

Company’s debt and other compliance ratios required to maintain its unsecured

lines of credit, further allowing the Company the opportunity to obtain

additional debt capacity should the need arise in the course of business

opportunities. The Company also amended both its $500 million and $150 million

unsecured lines of credit in 2001, which extended the maturity dates to 2004

and 2002, respectively.

Management believes that these key factors will provide the Company

with substantial financial flexibility to capitalize on investment

opportunities that may not be available to other real estate companies with

more limited financial resources.

Operating

Activities

Net cash flow provided by

operating activities was $433.7 million in 2001, compared to $449.1 million and

$315.6 million in 2000 and 1999, respectively. Operating activity cash flows

represent the primary source of liquidity to fund distributions to

shareholders, unitholders and the other minority interests and to fund

recurring costs associated with the renovation and re-letting of the Company’s

properties.

Investing

Activities

Net cash provided by  (used) by investing activities totaled $7.6

million, $(97.8) million and $(740.3) million for the years ended December 31,

2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Investing activities represent the investment

of funds by the Company to expand its portfolio of rental properties through

the development and acquisition of additional rental properties, net of

proceeds received from property sales. As noted in the comparison of 2001 to

2000, the Company has sold a significant amount of held for rental property in

2001 and 2000, which has generated proceeds of $436.1 million and $413.8

million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. In addition, the Company has received

$59.2 million and $158.4 million of distributions from unconsolidated companies

in 2001 and 2000, respectively, which represents a return of the Company’s

investment in unconsolidated companies generated by financing proceeds from

leveraging activities by the unconsolidated companies.  The effect of property sales and distributions

from unconsolidated companies has significantly reduced the amount of cash used

by investing activities in 2001 and 2000, compared to 1999.

The recurring

capital needs of the Company are funded primarily through the undistributed net

cash provided by operating activities. A summary of the Company’s recurring

capital expenditures is as follows (in thousands):

Financing Activities

Net cash (used

for)/provided by financing activities totaling ($470.9) million, ($331.0)

million and $436.4 million for the years ended 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively,

is comprised of debt and equity issuances, net of distributions to shareholders

and minority interests and repayments of outstanding indebtedness. In 2001, the

Company received $36.5 million of net proceeds from the issuance of common

shares, $72.2 million of net proceeds from the issuance of preferred shares,

and $175.0 million of proceeds from the issuance of unsecured debt. All

proceeds were used to reduce amounts outstanding under the Company’s lines of

credit and to fund the development and acquisition of additional rental

properties.


Also in 2001, the Company

redeemed its Series A Preferred stock at a cost of $75.0 million, and paid off

$128.5 million of secured mortgage debt and an $85.0 million unsecured term

loan.

The Company

currently has on file a Form S-3 Registration Statement (the “Shelf

Registration”) with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which has remaining

availability as of December 31, 2001, of $542.8 million to issue additional

common stock, preferred stock, and unsecured debt securities. The Company

intends to issue additional securities under this Shelf Registration to fund

the development and acquisition of additional rental properties. The Company

also has a Shelf Registration on file for at-the-market offerings of 1.5

million shares of common stock.

The Company has

the following lines of credit available (in thousands):

The lines of credit are used to fund development and acquisition of

additional rental properties and to provide working capital.

The $500 million

line of credit allows the Company an option to obtain borrowings from the

financial institutions that participate in the line of credit at rates lower

than the stated interest rate, subject to certain restrictions. Amounts

outstanding on the line of credit at December 31, 2001 are at LIBOR + .65%.

The debt

outstanding at December 31, 2001, totals $1.8 billion with a weighted average

interest rate of 6.81% maturing at various dates through 2028. The Company has

$1.5 billion of unsecured debt and $318.5 million of secured debt outstanding

at December 31, 2001. Scheduled principal amortization of such debt totaled $10.0

million for the year ended December 31, 2001.

Following is a summary of the scheduled future amortization and maturities

of the Company’s indebtedness at December 31, 2001 (in thousands):

Investments in Unconsolidated Companies

The Company has

equity interests ranging from 10-50% in unconsolidated partnerships and joint

ventures that own and operate rental properties and hold land for development.

The equity method of accounting is used for these investments in which the

Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control,

over operating and financial policies. The combined assets and debt of these unconsolidated

companies at December 31, 2001, totaled $1.3 billion and $557 million,

respectively. The Company has


guaranteed $90 million of secured mortgage debt and agreed to provide

additional capital contributions to pay all sums due under an additional $260

million of secured mortgage debt outstanding at December 31, 2001. This total

$350 million of debt is collateralized by rental properties of a joint venture

with net carrying value substantially in excess of the outstanding debt. If

required to make additional capital contributions, the Company will receive

proportionately increased ownership in the respective collateralized

properties. The Company does not anticipate that it will be required to satisfy

the guarantee or additional capital contribution obligations.

In October 2000,

the Company expanded an existing joint venture with an institutional real

estate investor. In connection with this transaction, the joint venture

partners were given an option to put up to a $50 million interest in the joint

venture to the Company in exchange for common stock of the Company or cash,

subject to timing and other restrictions. As a result of this put option, the

Company deferred $10.2 million of gain on sale of depreciated property to the

joint venture and recorded a $50 million liability.

Related Party Transactions

The

Company provides property management, leasing, construction and other tenant

related services to properties in which certain executives have ownership

interests. The Company has an option to acquire these executive officers’

interests in these properties (the “Option Properties”). The Company received

fees totaling $1.7 million, $1.9 million and $2.4 million in 2001, 2000 and

1999, respectively, for services provided to the Option Properties. The fees

charged by the Company for such services are equivalent to those charged to

third-party owners for similar services.

On June 27, 2001, A. Ray Weeks, Jr. resigned his position as a director

and Vice Chairman of the Company. On August 17, 2001, the Company redeemed

620,156 limited partnership units beneficially owned by Mr. Weeks and certain

members of his immediate and extended family (the “Weeks Affiliates”). The

deemed value of the units redeemed was $15.7 million, which was based on the

average closing stock price of the Company for a certain period of days

preceding the redemption date. As consideration for the redemption, the Weeks

Affiliates received a distribution of seven industrial rental properties and

one undeveloped tract of land located in the Atlanta, Georgia metropolitan area

with a value of $31.7 million.  The

Weeks Affiliates also assumed a loan in the amount of $16 million from Wachovia

Bank, N.A. to the Company. The value of the properties distributed to the Weeks

Affiliates was based on negotiations between Mr. Weeks and members of the

Company’s executive committee, and was approved by the unaffiliated members of

the Board of Directors.

The Company has other related party transactions that are insignificant

and terms are considered to be at arm’s-length and equal to those negotiated

with independent parties.

Commitments and Contingencies

The Company has

the following commitments and contingencies in addition to those previously disclosed:

In 1998 and 1999,

members of management and the Board of Directors purchased $69 million of

common stock in connection with an Executive and Senior Officer Stock Purchase

Plan. The purchases were financed by five-year personal loans at market interest

rates from financial institutions. As of December 31, 2001, the outstanding

balance on these loans is $40.5 million as some participants have exited the

program and repaid their principal balance. As a condition of the financing

agreement with the financial institution, the Company has guaranteed repayment

of principal, interest and other obligations for each participant, but is fully

indemnified by the participants. In the opinion of management, it is not

probable that the Company will be required to satisfy these guarantees.

The Company has

entered into agreements, subject to the completion of due diligence

requirements, resolution of certain contingencies and completion of customary

closing conditions, for the future acquisition


of land totaling $10.1 million. The acquisitions are scheduled to close

periodically through 2002 and will be paid for through a combination of cash or

DRLP Limited Partner Unit issuance.

Merger With

Weeks Corporation

In July 1999, Weeks Corporation (“Weeks”), a self-administered,

self-managed geographically focused Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”),

which operated primarily in the southeastern United States, was merged with and

into Duke Realty Investments, Inc. (“Duke”). The total purchase price of Weeks

aggregated approximately $1.9 billion, which included the assumption of the

outstanding debt and liabilities of Weeks of approximately $775 million. The

transaction was structured as a tax-free merger and was accounted for under the

purchase method.

Funds From Operations

Management believes that Funds From Operations

(“FFO”), which is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment

Trusts as net income or loss, excluding gains or losses from debt restructuring

and sales of depreciated property, plus operating property depreciation and

amortization and adjustments for minority interest and unconsolidated companies

on the same basis, is the industry standard for reporting the operations of

real estate investment trusts.

The following reflects the calculation of the

Company’s FFO for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):

The increase in FFO during the three-year period

results primarily from the increased in-service rental property portfolio as

discussed above under “Results of Operations.”

While management believes that FFO is the most

relevant and widely used measure of the Company’s operating performance, such

amount does not represent cash flow from operations as defined by generally

accepted accounting principles, should not be considered as an alternative to

net income as an indicator of the Company’s operating performance, and is not

indicative of cash available to fund all cash flow needs.

Accounting Changes

In October 2001, FASB issued SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,

which

is effective January 1, 2002. SFAS 144 supersedes and provides additional

clarification under the guidelines established by SFAS 121. The Company does

not anticipate that the adoption of SFAS 144 will have a material impact on its

financial statements.


Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure

About Market Risks

The Company is exposed to

interest rate changes primarily as a result of its line of credit and long-term

debt used to maintain liquidity and fund capital expenditures and expansion of

the Company’s real estate investment portfolio and operations. The Company’s

interest rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of interest rate

changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing costs. To

achieve its objectives the Company borrows primarily at fixed rates and may

enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps

and treasury locks in order to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related

financial instrument. The Company does not enter into derivative or interest

rate transactions for speculative purposes.

The Company’s interest rate risk

is monitored using a variety of techniques. The table below presents the

principal amounts (in thousands) of the expected annual maturities, weighted

average interest rates for the average debt outstanding in the specified

period, fair values and other terms required to evaluate the expected cash

flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. The fair values of the

Company’s debt instruments are calculated as the present value of estimated

future cash flows using a discount rate commensurate with the risks involved.

The Company has an interest rate swap agreement

in conjunction with a $40 million mortgage loan which matures January 2003,

along with the swap agreement. The fair market value of the swap at December

31, 2001, is $(1.6) million.

As the table incorporates only those exposures

that exist as of December 31, 2001, it does not consider those exposures or

positions which could arise after that date. As a result, the Company’s

ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will

depend on the exposures that arise during the period, the Company’s hedging

strategies at that time, and interest rates.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements and supplementary data

are included under Item 14 of this Report.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with

Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Part III

Item 10.  Trustees and Executive Officers of the

Registrant

Information with respect to the directors of the

Company is incorporated by reference from the Company's 2002 Proxy Statement

(the "Proxy Statement") for its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be

held on April 24, 2002.  Certain

information with respect to the Company’s executive officers appears in Part 4

of this form 10-K.  The information with

respect to this item required by item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated

herein by reference from the Proxy Statement.


Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Information with respect to this item is

incorporated herein by reference from the Proxy Statement.

Item 12. Security Ownership of

Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

I

nformation with respect to this

item is i

ncorporated herein by reference from the Proxy Statement.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related

Transactions

I

nformation with respect to this

item is i

ncorporated herein by reference from the Proxy Statement.

Part IV

Item 14. 

Exhibits

, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)           The

following documents are filed as part of this form 10-K:

1.      Consolidated

Financial Statements

The following Consolidated

Financial Statements of the Company, together with the Independent Auditors’

Report, are listed below:

Independent Auditors’ Report

Consolidated Balance Sheets,

December 31, 2001 and 2000

Consolidated Statements of

Operations, Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

Consolidated Statements of Cash

Flows, Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

Consolidated Statements of

Shareholders’ Equity, Years Ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

Notes to Consolidated Financial

Statements

2.      Consolidated

Financial Statement Schedules

Schedule III — Real Estate and

Accumulated Depreciation

3.      Exhibits

The following exhibits are filed with this Form

10-K or incorporated herein by reference to the listed document previously

filed with the SEC. Previously unfilled documents are noted with an asterisk

(*).

Number

Description

3.1           Second Amended and Restated Articles

of Incorporation of the Company, incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to

the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 16, 1999.

3.2           Amendment to the Second Amended and

Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company, incorporated by reference

from Exhibit 3 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 31,

2001.

3.3           Amendment to the Second Amended and

Restated Articles of Incorporation.*


3.4           Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of

the Company, incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's

Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 16, 1999.

3.5           First Amendment to Second Amended and

Restated By-Laws of the Company.*

4.1           Indenture between DRLP and The First

National Bank of Chicago, Trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to

the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 22, 1995.

4.2           First Supplement to Indenture,

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Current Report on

Form 8-K filed September 22, 1995.

4.3           Second Supplement to Indenture,

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the DRLP's Current Report on Form 8-K

filed July 12, 1996.

4.4           Third Supplement to Indenture,

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the DRLP's Current Report on Form 8-K

filed May 20, 1997.

4.5           Fourth Supplement to Indenture,

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Company's Form S-4 Registration

Statement No. 333-77645 dated May 4, 1999 (Merger Registration Statement).

4.6           Fifth Supplement to Indenture,

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the DRLP's Current Report on Form 8-K

filed June 1, 1998.

4.7           Sixth Supplement to Indenture,

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the DRLP's Current Report on Form 8-K

filed February 12, 1999.

4.8           Seventh Supplement to Indenture, incorporated

by reference to Exhibit 4 to the DRLP's Current Report on Form 8-K filed June

29, 1999.

4.9           Eighth Supplement to Indenture,

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the DRLP's Current Report on Form 8-K

filed November 15, 1999.

4.10         Ninth supplement to Indenture,

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the DRLP's Current Report on Form 8-K

filed March 2, 2001.

4.11         1998 Shareholder Rights Agreement,

incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 7.1 to the Company's Current Report

on Form  8-K dated July 31, 1998.

4.12         First Amendment to 1998 Shareholder

Rights Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 7.1 to the Company's

Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 3, 2001.

10.1         Second Amended and Restated Agreement

of Limited Partnership of DRLP, incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to

DRLP's Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 16, 1999.

10.2         First Amendment to Second Amended and

Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of DRLP, incorporated by reference

from Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal

year ended December 31, 2000.

10.3         Second Amendment to Second Amended and

Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of DRLP.*


10.4         Third Amendment To Second Amended and

Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of DRLP.*

10.5         Fourth Amendment to Second Amended and

Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of DRLP.*

10.6         Second Amended and Restated Agreement

of Limited Partnership of Duke Realty Services Limited Partnership (the

“Services Partnership”) incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the

Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.

10.7

First

Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of

the Services Partnership.*

10.8

Second

Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of

the Services Partnership.*

10.9         Third Amendment to Second Amended and

Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Services Partnership.*

10.10       Promissory Note of the Services

Partnership incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's

form S-2 Registration Statement No. 33-64038 filed June 8, 1993. (the

"1993 Registration Statement".)

10.11       Services Partnership 1993 Stock Option

Plan incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the 1993 Registration

Statement.#

10.12       Amendment One to Services Partnership

1993 Stock Option Plan.*#

10.13       Amendment Two to Services Partnership

1993 Stock Option Plan.*#

10.14       Amendment Three to Services Partnership

1993 Stock Option Plan.*#

10.15       Acquisition Option Agreement relating to

certain properties not contributed to the Operating Partnership by Duke

Associates (the “Excluded Properties”) incorporated herein by reference to

Exhibit 10.5 to the 1993 Registration Statement.

10.16       Management Agreement relating to the

Excluded Properties incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the

1993 Registration Statement.

10.17       Indemnification Agreement incorporated

herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the 1993 Registration Statement.

10.18       1995 Key Employee Stock Option Plan of

the Company incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Company's

Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.#

10.19       Amendment One To The 1995 Key Employees’

Stock Option Plan of Duke Realty Investments, Inc.*#

10.20       Amendment Two to the 1995 Key Employees’

Stock Option Plan of Duke Realty Investments, Inc.*#

10.21       Amendment Three to the 1995 Key

Employees’ Stock Option Plan of Duke Realty Investments, Inc.*#


10.22       Amendment Four to the 1995 Key Employees’

Stock Option Plan of Duke Realty Investments, Inc.*#

10.23       Amendment Five to the 1995 Key Employees’

Stock Option Plan of Duke Realty Investments, Inc.*#

10.24       Amendment Six to the 1995 Key Employees’

Stock Option Plan of Duke Realty Investments, Inc.*#

10.25       Amended and Restated Dividend Increase

Unit Plan of the Services Partnership.*#

10.26       Amendment One to the Amended and Restated

Dividend Increase Unit Plan of Services Partnership.*#

10.27       Amendment Two to the Amended and Restated

Dividend Increase Unit Plan of Services Partnership.*#

10.28       1995 Shareholder Value Plan of the Services

Partnership incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the Company's

Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.#

10.29       Amendment One to the 1995 Shareholder

Value Plan of Services Partnership.*#

10.30       Amendment Two to the 1995 Shareholder

Value Plan of Services Partnership.*#

10.31       Amendment Three to the 1995 Shareholder

Value Plan of Services Partnership.*#

10.32       1998 Duke Realty Severance Pay Plan

incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's Annual

Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998.#

10.33       1999 Directors’ Stock Option and Dividend

Increase Unit Plan incorporated by reference to Annex F to the Prospectus in

the Merger Registration Statement.#

10.34       1999 Salary Replacement Stock Option and

Dividend Increase Unit Plan incorporated by reference to Annex G to the

Prospectus in the Merger Registration Statement.#

10.35       Third Amended and Restated Revolving

Credit Agreement dated February 28, 2001, among DRLP as borrower, the Company

as General Partner and Guarantor and Bank One as Administrative Agent and

Lender.*

10.36       Revolving Credit Agreement dated July 9,

2001, among DRLP as borrower, the Company as General Partner and Guarantor and

Bank One as Administrative Agent and Lender.*

11.1         Statement of Computation of Ratios of

Earnings to Fixed Charges.*

11.2         Statement of Computation of Ratios of

Earnings to Debt Service.*

21.           List of Subsidiaries.*

23.           Consent of KPMG LLP.*

24.           Executed powers of attorney of certain

directors.*

99.1         Selected Quarterly Financial

Information.*

# Represents management contract or compensatory

plan or arrangement.


The Company will furnish to any

security holder, upon written request, copies of any exhibit incorporated by

reference, for a fee of 15 cents per page, to cover the costs of furnishing the

exhibits. Written request should include a representation that the person

making the request was the beneficial owner of securities entitled to vote at

the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

(b)           Reports on

Form 8-K

The Company filed a Form 8-K on

December 3, 2001, to amend its Rights Agreement dated as of July 23, 1998.

The Company filed a Form 8-K on

December 6, 2001, to update the business risks and other important factors that

could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from its

expectations expressed in forward-looking statements made by the Company or on

its behalf.

(c)           Exhibits

The exhibits required to be filed with this Form 10-K

pursuant to Item 601 of regulation S-K are listed under "Exhibits" in

Part IV, Item 14(a)(3) of this Form 10-K, and are incorporated herein by

reference.

(d)           Financial

Statement Schedule

The Financial Statement Schedule required to be filed

with this Form 10-K is listed under "Consolidated Financial Statement

Schedules" in Part IV, Item (a)(2) of this Form 10-K, and is incorporated

herein by reference.


Independent Auditors’ Report

The Shareholders and Directors of

Duke Realty Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Duke Realty

Corporation and Subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying index. In connection

with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited

the financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying index. These

consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the

responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an

opinion on the consolidated financial statements and the financial statement

schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally

accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan

and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the

financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes

examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in

the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting

principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as

evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our

audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above

present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Duke Realty

Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results

of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the

three-year period ended December 31, 2001, in conformity with accounting

principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our

opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation

to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents

fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

KPMG LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana

January 30, 2002


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated Balance Sheets

As of December 31

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

See

accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated Statements of Operations

For the Years Ended December 31

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

See

accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For the Years Ended December 31

(in thousands)

See

accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

(in thousands, except per share data)

DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated

Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

(in thousands,

except per share data)

See

accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY

CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial

Statements

(1)

The Company

The Company’s

rental operations are conducted through Duke Realty Limited Partnership

(“DRLP”), an entity in which the Company owns an 88.5% interest at December 31,

2001. The remaining interests in DRLP are redeemable for shares of the

Company’s common stock. The Company conducts service operations through Duke

Realty Services Limited Partnership (“DRSLP”), in which the Company is the sole

general partner. The Company also conducts Service Operations through Duke

Construction Limited Partnership (“DCLP”), which is 100% owned by DRLP. The

consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its

majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries.

(2)

Summary

of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the

Company and its majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries. The equity interests

in these majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries not owned by the Company are

reflected as minority interests in the consolidated financial statements. All

significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in the

consolidated financial statements. Investments in entities that the Company

does not control through majority voting interest or where the other owner has

substantial participating rights are not consolidated and are reflected as

investments in unconsolidated companies.

Reclassifications

Certain 1999 and 2000 balances have been reclassified to conform to

2001 presentation.

Real Estate Investments

Real estate investments to be held for rental are stated at the lower

of cost less accumulated depreciation or fair value if impairment is

identified. Real estate investments to be disposed of are reported at the lower

of their carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Buildings and land

improvements are depreciated on the straight-line method over their estimated

life not to exceed 40 and 15 years, respectively, and tenant improvement costs

are depreciated on the straight-line method over the term of the related lease.

All direct and indirect costs, including interest and real estate taxes

associated with the development, construction, leasing or expansion of real

estate investments are capitalized as a cost of the property.  Included in indirect costs is an estimate of

internal costs associated with development and rental of real estate

investments. All external costs associated with the acquisition of real estate

investments are capitalized as a cost of the property.

The Company evaluates its real estate investments to be held and used

upon occurrence of significant changes in the operations, but not less than

annually, to assess whether any impairment indications are present, including

recurring operating losses and significant adverse changes in legal factors or

business climate that affect the recovery of the recorded value. If any real

estate investment is considered impaired, a loss is provided to reduce the

carrying value of the property to its estimated fair value.


The acquisitions of minority interests for the Company’s common shares

are recorded under the purchase method with assets acquired reflected at the

fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of acquisition, net

of the retirement of any minority interest liabilities. The acquisition amounts

are allocated to rental property based on their estimated fair values.

The Company has equity interests in unconsolidated partnerships and

joint ventures which own and operate rental properties and hold land for

development. The equity method of accounting is used for these investments in

which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, but not

control, over operating and financial policies. Any difference between the

carrying amount of these investments and the underlying equity in net assets is

amortized to equity in earnings of unconsolidated companies over the

depreciable life of the property, generally 40 years.

Cash Equivalents

Highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when

purchased are classified as cash equivalents.

Deferred Costs

Costs incurred in connection with obtaining financing are amortized to

interest expense on the straight-line method over the term of the related loan.

All direct and indirect costs, including estimated internal costs, associated

with the rental of real estate investments owned by the Company are capitalized

and amortized over the term of the related lease. Unamortized costs are charged

to expense upon the early termination of the lease or upon early payment of the

financing.

Revenues

Rental Operations

Rental income from leases with scheduled rental increases during their

terms is recognized on a straight-line basis.

Service Operations

Management fees are based on a percentage of rental receipts of

properties managed and are recognized as the rental receipts are collected.

Maintenance fees are based upon established hourly rates and are recognized as

the services are performed. Construction management and development fees for

third party contracts are recognized as earned based on the terms of the

contract.

The Company recognizes income on

long-term construction contracts where the Company serves as a general

contractor on the percentage of completion method. Using this method, profits

are recorded on the basis of the Company’s estimates of the percentage of

completion of individual contracts, commencing when progress reaches a point

where experience is sufficient to estimate final results with reasonable

accuracy. That portion of the estimated earnings is accrued on the basis of the

Company’s estimates of the percentage of completion based on contract

expenditures incurred and work performed.


Property

Sales

Gains from sales of depreciated

property are recognized in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting

Standards (“SFAS”) No. 66, and are included in earnings from sales of land and

depreciable property dispositions, net of impairment allowance, in the

Statement of Operations.

Gains or losses from the sale of

property which is considered held for sale in DCLP are recognized in accordance

with SFAS 66 and are included in construction management and development

activity income in the Statement of Operations.

Net Income Per Common Share

Basic net income per common share is computed by dividing net income

available for common shares by the weighted average number of common shares

outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per share is

computed by dividing the sum of net income available for common shares

and minority interest in earnings

of unitholders, by the sum of the weighted average number of common

shares and units outstanding and dilutive potential common shares for the period.

The following table reconciles the components of basic and diluted net

income per share:

The Series D Convertible Preferred stock and the Series G Convertible

Preferred limited partner units were anti-dilutive for the years ended December

31, 2001, 2000 and 1999; therefore, no conversion to common shares is included

in weighted dilutive potential common shares.

A joint venture partner in one of the Company’s unconsolidated

companies has the option to convert a portion of its ownership to Company

common shares (see discussion in Investments in Unconsolidated Companies

section). The effect of the option on earnings per share was dilutive for the

year ended December 31, 2001; therefore, conversion to common shares is

included in weighted dilutive potential common shares.


Federal Income Taxes

The Company has elected

to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) under the Internal

Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must meet a number of

organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that it

currently distribute at least 90% of its taxable income to its stockholders.  Management intends to continue to adhere to

these requirements and to maintain the Company’s REIT status. As a REIT, the

Company is entitled to a tax deduction for some or all of the dividends it pays

to its shareholders. Accordingly, the Company generally will not be subject to

federal income taxes as long as it distributes an amount equal to or in excess

of its taxable income currently to its stockholders.  A REIT generally is subject to federal income taxes on any

taxable income that is not currently distributed to its shareholders. If the

Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to

federal income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four

subsequent taxable years.

REIT qualification

reduces, but does not eliminate, the amount of state and local taxes paid by

the Company. In addition, the Company’s financial statements include the

operations of taxable corporate subsidiaries that are not entitled to a

dividends paid deduction and are subject to corporate federal, state and local

income taxes.  As a REIT, the Company

may also be subject to certain federal excise taxes if it engages in certain

types of transactions.

The following table reconciles the Company’s net income to its taxable

income before the dividends paid deduction for the years ended December 31,

2001, 2000 and 1999:

The Company’s dividends paid deduction is summarized

below:


A summary of the tax characterization of the dividends

paid per common share for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999

follows:

The Company recorded federal income taxes of $4.6

million, $8.0 million and $5.4 million for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively,

which were attributable to the earnings of the Company’s taxable

subsidiaries.  The taxable REIT

subsidiaries had no significant deferred income tax items.

Fair Value Of Financial Instruments

The fair values of the Company’s financial instruments are generally

calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows using a discount

rate commensurate with the risks involved and approximate their carrying or

contract values.

Derivative

Financial Instruments

The Company

adopted SAFS No. 133 “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging

Activities” as amended by SFAS No. 137 and No. 138 on January 1, 2001. SFAS 133

requires that all derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at

their fair value. Gains or losses resulting from changes in the values of those

derivatives would be accounted for depending on the use of the derivative and

whether it qualifies for hedge accounting. The Company uses derivative

financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to mitigate its interest rate

risk on a related financial instrument. SFAS 133 requires that changes in fair

value of derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges be recognized in other

comprehensive income while the ineffective portion of the derivative’s change

in fair value be recognized immediately in earnings.

Use Of Estimates

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity

with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America

requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts

reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.

Actual results could differ from those estimates.

(3)

Merger With Weeks Corporation

In July 1999, Weeks Corporation (“Weeks”), a

self-administered, self-managed geographically focused Real Estate Investment

Trust (“REIT”) which operated primarily in the southeastern United States, was

merged with and into Duke Realty Investments, Inc. (“Duke”). The total purchase

price of Weeks aggregated approximately $1.9 billion, which included the

assumption of the outstanding debt and liabilities of Weeks of approximately

$775 million. The transaction was structured as a tax-free merger and was

accounted for under the purchase method.


(4)

Related Party Transactions

The Company provides property management, leasing,

construction and other tenant related services to properties in which certain

executives have ownership interests. The Company has an option to acquire these

executive officers’ interests in these properties (the “Option Properties”).

The Company received fees totaling $1.7 million, $1.9 million and $2.4 million

in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, for services provided to the Option

Properties. The fees charged by the Company for such services are equivalent to

those charged to third-party owners for similar services.

On June 27, 2001, A. Ray

Weeks, Jr. resigned his position as a director and Vice Chairman of the

Company.  On August 17, 2001, the

Company redeemed 620,156 limited partnership units beneficially owned by Mr.

Weeks and certain members of his immediate and extended family (the “Weeks

Affiliates”). The deemed value of the units redeemed was $15.7 million, which

was based on the average closing stock price of the Company for a certain period

of days preceding the redemption date. 

As consideration for the redemption, the Weeks Affiliates received a

distribution of seven industrial rental properties and one undeveloped tract of

land located in the Atlanta, Georgia metropolitan area with a value of $31.7

million. The Weeks Affiliates also assumed a loan in the amount of $16 million

from Wachovia Bank, N.A. to the Company. The value of the properties

distributed to the Weeks Affiliates was based on negotiations between Mr. Weeks

and members of the Company’s executive committee, and was approved by the

unaffiliated members of the Board of Directors.

The Company has other

related party transactions that are insignificant and terms are considered to

be at arm’s-length and equal to those negotiated with independent parties.

(5)

Investments in Unconsolidated Companies

The Company has equity interests ranging from 10 - 50% in

unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures that own and operate rental

properties and hold land for development. The equity method of accounting is

used for these investments in which the Company has the ability to exercise

significant influence, but not control, over operating and financial policies.

Any difference between the carrying amount of these investments and the

underlying equity in net assets is amortized to equity in earnings of

unconsolidated companies over the depreciable life of the property, generally

40 years. The cost method of accounting is used for non-majority owned joint

ventures over which the Company does not have the ability to exercise

significant influence. The difference between the cost and equity methods for

such ventures does not significantly affect the financial position or results

of operations of the Company.

Combined summarized financial information of the companies which are

accounted for by the equity method as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and for

the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, are as follows (in

thousands):


The following significant transactions involving unconsolidated

companies in which the Company has an equity interest in have occurred over the

past three years:

In 2001, the Company received approximately $50 million in cash

distributions resulting from secured debt financing within two joint ventures.

The Company has a 50% interest in both ventures. The debt is entirely

collaterized by rental properties within the ventures and the Company is not a

guarantor on the debt.

Also in 2001, the Company recognized a gain of $2.9

million from the sale of a building out of a joint venture in which the Company

owned a 50% interest. The gain is recorded in equity in earnings in the

Statement of Operations.

In October 2000, the Company sold or contributed

industrial properties and undeveloped land with a fair value of $487 million to

a joint venture (Dugan Realty LLC) in which the Company has a 50% interest and

recognized a net gain of $35.2 million. This transaction expanded an existing

joint venture with an institutional real estate investor. As a result of the

total transactions, the Company received $363.9 million of proceeds. The joint

venture financed this transaction  with

$350 million of secured mortgage debt of which the  Company has guaranteed $90 million and agreed to provide

additional capital contributions to pay all sums due under the remaining $260

million. At December 31, 2001, this $350 million of debt is collateralized by

rental properties with net carrying value substantially in excess of the

outstanding debt. If required to make additional capital contributions, the

Company will receive proportionately increased ownership in the respective

collateralized properties. The Company does not anticipate that it will be required

to satisfy the guarantee or additional capital contribution obligations. In

connection with this transaction, the joint venture partners were given an

option to put up to $50 million interest in the joint venture to the Company in

exchange for common stock of the Company or cash, subject to timing and other

restrictions. As a result of this put option, the Company deferred $10.2

million of gain on sale of depreciated property and recorded a $50 million

liability. At December 31, 2001, the joint venture owns 131 buildings totaling

more than 23 million square feet with a value of approximately $800 million.

The Company provides real estate related services to the venture through its

Service Operations.

In December 2000, the Company contributed 14 industrial properties,

including five under development, totaling approximately three million square

feet to a joint venture (Dugan Texas LLC) in which the Company has a 50%

interest. The Company also contributed 145 acres of undeveloped land. The

Company received $33.1 million of proceeds and recorded a net gain of $686,000

as a result of the transaction. At December 31, 2001, the joint venture owns 31

buildings totaling more than 5 million square feet with a value of over $226

million. The Company provides real estate related services to the venture

through its Service Operations.


(6)

Real Estate Held for Sale

At December 31, 2001, the Company had seven industrial, four office and

one retail property comprising approximately 2.6 million square feet held for

sale. Of these properties, three build-to-suit office, three build-to-suit

industrial and one build-to-suit retail property were under development at

December 31, 2001. Net operating income (defined as total property revenues,

less property expenses, which include real estate taxes, repairs and

maintenance, property management, utilities, insurance and other expenses) of

the properties held for sale for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and

1999 is approximately $5.7 million, $5.1 million, and $4.5 million,

respectively. Net book value of the properties held for sale at December 31,

2001 is approximately $122.8 million. There can be no assurance that such

properties held for sale will be sold.

The Company

recorded

a $4.8 million asset impairment

adjustment in 2001 on a single property that is expected to be sold in 2002.

The Company has analyzed each of its in-service properties and has determined

that there are no additional valuation adjustments that need to be made at

December 31, 2001.

(7)

Indebtedness

Indebtedness at December 31 consists of the following (in thousands):

As of December 31, 2001, the $318.4 million of secured debt is

collateralized by rental properties with a net carrying value of $582.9

million.

The Company has the following lines of credit available (in thousands):

The lines of credit are used to fund development and acquisition of

additional rental properties and to provide working capital.

The $500 million line of

credit allows the Company an option to obtain borrowings from the financial

institutions that participate in the line of credit at rates lower than the

stated interest rate, subject to certain restrictions. Amounts outstanding on

the line of credit at December 31, 2001 are at LIBOR +.65%.

At December 31, 2001, scheduled amortization and maturities of all

indebtedness for the next five years and thereafter are as follows  (in thousands):


Cash paid for interest in 2001, 2000, and 1999 was $140.5 million,

$156.5 million and $100.3 million, respectively. Total interest capitalized in

2001, 2000 and 1999 was $25.9 million, $33.0 million and $26.0 million,

respectively.

(8)

Segment

Reporting

The Company is engaged in four operating segments, the ownership and

rental of office, industrial, and retail real estate investments (“Rental

Operations”) and the providing of various real estate services such as property

management, maintenance, landscaping, leasing, and construction management to

third-party property owners (“Service Operations). The Company’s reportable

segments offer different products or services and are managed  separately because each requires different

operating strategies and management expertise. There are no material

intersegment sales or transfers.

Non-segment revenue to reconcile to total revenue consists mainly of

equity in earnings of joint ventures. Non-segment assets to reconcile to total

assets consists of corporate assets including cash, deferred financing costs

and investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries.

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described

in Note 2.

The Company assesses and

measures segment operating results based on a performance measure referred to

as Funds From Operations (“FFO”). The National Association of Real Estate

Investment Trusts defines FFO as net income or loss, excluding gains or losses

from debt restructurings and sales of depreciated property, plus operating

property depreciation and amortization and adjustments for minority interest

and unconsolidated companies on the same basis. FFO is not a measure of

operating results or cash flows from operating activities as measured by

generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily indicative of cash

available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to

cash flows as a measure of liquidity. Interest expense and other non-property

specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual segments in

determining the Company’s performance measure.

The revenues and FFO for each of the reportable segments are summarized

as follows for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, and the

assets of each reportable segment as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 (in thousands):


(9)

Leasing

Activity

Future minimum rents due to the Company under non-cancelable operating

leases at December 31, 2001 are as follows (in thousands):

In addition to minimum rents, certain leases require reimbursements of

specified operating expenses which amounted to $115.7 million, $114.2 million,

and $85.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,

respectively.

(10)

Employee

Benefit Plans

The Company maintains a 401(k)

plan for the benefit of its full-time employees. The Company matches the

employees’ contributions up to three percent of the employees’ salary and may also

make annual discretionary contributions. Total expense recognized by the

Company was $1.3 million, $3.2 million and $2.3 million for the years ended

2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


The Company makes contributions to a contributory health and welfare

plan as necessary to fund claims not covered by employee contributions. Total

expense recognized by the Company related to this plan was $5.6 million, $6.0

million and $2.7 million for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Included in

total expense is an estimate based on historical experience of the effect of

claims incurred but not reported as of year-end.

(11)

Shareholders’

Equity

The Company periodically accesses the public equity markets to fund the

development and acquisition of additional rental properties. The proceeds of

these offerings are contributed to DRLP in exchange for additional interest in

the partnership.

The following series of preferred stock are outstanding as of December

31, 2001 (in thousands, except percentages):

All series of

preferred shares require cumulative distributions, have no stated maturity

date, and the redemption price of each series may only be paid from the

proceeds of other capital shares of the Company, which may include other

classes or series of preferred shares.

The Series I

Preferred shares were issued in February 2001.

The Series D

Preferred shares are convertible at a conversion rate of 9.3677 common shares

for each preferred share outstanding.

The dividend rate

on the Series B Preferred shares increases to 9.99% after September 12, 2012.

The Company

redeemed its $75.0 million Series A Preferred shares in August 2001.

Under a

shareholder rights plan (“Rights Agreement”), each common shareholder has one

right for each share of common stock prior to the occurrence of certain

triggering events which would in effect execute the Rights Agreement. Upon the

occurrence of such events, each right entitles the registered holder to

purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of Series C Junior Preferred

Stock which has substantially the same economic attributes and carries

substantially the same voting rights as one share of common stock. As of

December 31, 2001, no events have triggered execution of the Rights Agreement.

(12)

Stock Based Compensation

The Company has

nine stock based compensation plans, including fixed stock option plans and

performance based stock plans, which are described below. The Company is

authorized to issue up to 13,804,738 shares of Company stock under these plans.  The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 and

related interpretations in accounting for its plans. Accordingly, no

compensation cost has been recognized for its fixed stock option


plans as the

exercise price of each option equals the market price of the Company’s stock on

the date of grant. The Company charges compensation costs against its income

for its performance based stock plans. If compensation cost for the Company’s

fixed stock option plans had been determined consistent with SFAS Statement No.

123, the Company’s net income and net income per share for the years ended

December 31 would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below

(in thousands, except earnings per share amounts):

Because the

Statement does not apply to awards prior to 1995, and the options have up to a

5-year vesting period, the pro forma effect was not fully reflected until 2000.

The fair values of

the options were determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with

the following assumptions:

Fixed Stock Option

Plans

The Company had options outstanding under six fixed stock option plans

as of December 31, 2001. Additional grants may be made under three of those

plans.

A summary of the

status of the Company’s fixed stock option plans as of December 31, 2001, 2000

and 1999 and changes during the years ended on those dates follows:


The options

outstanding at December 31, 2001, under the fixed stock option plans have a

range of exercise prices from $11.87 to $24.98 with a weighted average exercise

price of $21.12 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.58

years. The options exercisable at December 31, 2001 have a weighted average

exercise price of $20.21.

Each option’s

maximum term is ten years. With limited exceptions, options vest at 20% per

year, or, if earlier, upon the death, retirement or disability of the optionee

or a change in control of the Company.

Performance Based

Stock Plans

The Company has

three types of performance based equity compensation plans: Dividend Increase

Unit Plans (“DIU Plans”), a Shareholder Value Plan and a Performance Share

Plan. Under the Company’s DIU Plans, Dividend Increase Units (“DIUs”) are

granted to key employees and directors. The value of DIUs exercised by

participants is payable in Company stock. 

The maximum term of all DIUs granted is ten years.

The value of each

DIU when exercised is equal to the increase in the Company’s annualized

dividend per share from the date of grant to the date of exercise, divided by

the “dividend yield.” Dividend yield is the annualized dividend per share

divided by the market price per share of the Company’s common stock at the date

of grant. DIUs are generally subject to a 20% per year vesting schedule.

Under the 1995

Shareholder Value Plan (the “SV Plan”), the Company may grant awards in

specified dollar amounts to key employees. The award is payable to the employee

on the third anniversary of the date of grant. One-half of the award is payable

in common stock of the Company, and one-half is payable in cash. The initial

dollar amount of each award granted under the SV Plan is adjusted upward or

downward based on a comparison of the Company’s cumulative total shareholder

return for the three year period as compared to the cumulative total return of

the S&P 500 and the NAREIT Equity REIT Total Return indices. The award is

not payable upon the employee’s termination of employment for any reason other

than retirement, death, disability or a change in control of the Company.

Awards made under the 2000 Performance Share Plan vest 20% per year if

the Company attains a certain predefined level of earnings growth for such

vesting period. The payments are made in the form of “performance shares”, with

each performance share economically equivalent to one share of Company common

stock.  Performance shares will ultimately

be paid to the participants in the form of cash or Company common stock upon

the retirement or termination of employment of the participant.  At December 31, 2001, plan participants had

the right to receive up to 82,074 performance shares, of which 29,436 were

vested and 52,638 were contingent upon earnings achievement.

The Company

believes that it is not possible to reasonably estimate the fair value of the

awards to be paid under these performance compensation plans and, therefore,

computes compensation cost for these plans based on the intrinsic value of the

awards as if they were exercised at the end of each applicable reporting

period. The compensation cost that has been charged against income for these

plans was $6.2 million, $7.7 million and $5.9 million for 2001, 2000 and 1999,

respectively.

(13)

Derivative

Instruments

One of the

Company’s interest rate swap contracts did not meet the criteria of SFAS 133 to

qualify for hedge accounting. SFAS 133 requires that unrealized gains and

losses on derivatives not qualifying as hedge


accounting be

recognized currently in earnings. The cumulative effect of a change in

accounting principle due to the adoption of SFAS 133 as of January 1, 2001, was

$398,000 and was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income as a

transition adjustment. As of December 31, 2001, the Company recorded a net loss

of $1.4 million in other expense due to the interest rate swap contract not

qualifying for hedge accounting.

The Company had three interest rate swaps that qualified for hedge

accounting under SFAS No. 133. All three were tied to an $85 million unsecured

term loan to fix the interest rate. Any change in fair values on these swaps

was recognized in other comprehensive income. In July 2001, the Company paid

off the term loan and terminated the three swaps. The cost to terminate the

swaps was $505,000, which was recorded as interest expense and reversed out of

other comprehensive income.

(14)

Commitments and Contingencies

In 1998 and 1999,

members of management and the Board of Directors purchased $69 million of

common stock in connection with an Executive and Senior Officer Stock Purchase

Plan. The purchases were financed by five-year personal loans at market

interest rates from financial institutions. As of December 31, 2001, the

outstanding balance on these loans is $40.5 million as some participants have

exited the program and repaid their principal balance. As a condition of the

financing agreement with the financial institution, the Company has guaranteed

repayment of principal, interest and other obligations for each participant,

but is fully indemnified by the participants. In the opinion of management, it

is not probable that the Company will be required to satisfy these guarantees.

The Company has

entered into agreements, subject to the completion of due diligence

requirements, resolution of certain contingencies and completion of customary

closing conditions, for the future acquisition of land totaling $10.1 million.

The acquisitions are scheduled to close periodically through 2002 and will be

paid for through a combination of cash or DRLP Limited Partner Unit issuance.

















(1) Costs

capitalized subsequent to acquisition include decreases for purchase price

reduction payments received

and land sales or

takedowns.

(2) Depreciation

of real estate is computed using the straight-line method over 40 years for

buildings, 15 years for land

improvements and

shorter periods based on lease terms (generally 3 to 10 years) for tenant

improvements

.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed

on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,

this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the

registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


* By Dennis D. Oklak, Attorney-in-Fact

s/  Dennis D. Oklak

78