10-K


a05-1765_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.  20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

Commission File Number: 1-9044

DUKE
REALTY CORPORATION

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its
Charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area
code:  (317) 808-6000

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/10 interest in 7.99% Series B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares ($.01 par value)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer
(as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). 
Yes

ý

No

o

The aggregate market value of the voting shares of the registrant’s
outstanding common shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant is $4.4
billion based on the last reported sale price on June 30, 2004.

The number of common shares outstanding as of February 21, 2005 was
142,916,444 ($.01 par value).

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 27, 2005, are incorporated
by reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

TABLE OF
CONTENTS

Form 10-K

PART I

Item
1.  Business

Risk Factors

There are certain risk
factors associated with an investment in securities issued by Duke Realty
Corporation (“the Company”). Discussion of these risk factors can be found
within Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis, Financial Conditions and
Results of Operations, of this Annual Report Form 10-K and in our Current
Report on Form 8-K dated July 24, 2003.

Background

We are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment
trust (“REIT”), which began operations upon completion of our initial public
offering in February 1986. In October 1993, we completed an additional common
stock offering and acquired the rental real estate and service businesses of
Duke Associates, whose operations began in 1972. As of December 31, 2004, our
diversified portfolio of 893 rental properties (including 17 properties
totaling 4.2 million square feet under development) encompass over 114.2
million rentable square feet and are leased by a diverse and stable base of
more than 4,200 tenants whose businesses include manufacturing, retailing,
wholesale trade, distribution and professional services. We also own or control
more than 4,600 acres of unencumbered land ready for development.

Through our Service Operations, we provide, on a fee basis, leasing,
property and asset management, development, construction, build-to-suit and
other tenant-related services for approximately 300 tenants in over 8.2 million
square feet of space at properties owned by third-party clients. With 13
primary operating platforms, we concentrate our activities in the Midwest and
Southeast United States. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” for financial information. Our rental
operations are conducted through Duke Realty Limited Partnership (“DRLP”). In
addition, we conduct our Service Operations through Duke Realty Services
Limited Partnership (“DRSLP”) and Duke Construction Limited Partnership (“DCLP”).  In this Form 10-K Report, the terms “we,” “us”
and “our” refer to the Company and those entities owned or controlled by the
Company.

Our headquarters and executive offices are located in Indianapolis,
Indiana. In addition, we have twelve regional offices located in Atlanta,
Georgia; Cincinnati, Ohio; Columbus, Ohio; Cleveland, Ohio; Chicago, Illinois;
Dallas, Texas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Nashville, Tennessee; Orlando, Florida;
Raleigh, North Carolina; St. Louis, Missouri; and Tampa, Florida. We had
approximately 1,100 employees as of December 31, 2004.

Business Strategy

Our business objective is to increase Funds From Operations (“FFO”) by
(i) maintaining and increasing property occupancy and rental rates through the
management of our portfolio of existing properties; (ii) expanding existing
properties in our existing markets and by entering new markets; (iii)
developing and acquiring new properties for rental operations in our existing
markets; (iv) using our construction expertise to act as a general contractor
in our existing markets and other domestic markets on a fee basis; (v)
developing properties in our existing markets and other markets which we will
sell through our merchant building development program and (vi) providing a
full line of real estate services to our tenants and to third parties. FFO is
used by industry analysts and investors as a supplemental operating performance
measure of an equity REIT. FFO is calculated in accordance with the definition
that was adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real
Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”). FFO, as


defined by NAREIT, represents net income (loss) determined in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”),
excluding extraordinary items as defined under GAAP and gains or losses from sales
of previously depreciated operating real estate assets, plus certain non-cash
items such as real estate asset depreciation and amortization, and after
similar adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with
GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes
predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen
or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have
considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use
historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Thus, NAREIT
created FFO as a supplemental measure of REIT operating performance that
excludes historical cost depreciation, among other items, from GAAP net income.
Management believes that the use of FFO, combined with the required primary
GAAP presentations, has improved the understanding of operating results of
REITs among the investing public and made comparisons of REIT operating results
more meaningful. Management generally considers FFO to be a useful measure for
reviewing comparative operating and financial performance (although FFO should
be reviewed in conjunction with net income which remains the primary measure of
performance) because by excluding gains or losses related to sales of
previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate
asset depreciation and amortization, FFO assists in comparing the operating
performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to
different companies.

As a fully integrated commercial real estate firm, we provide in-house
leasing, management, development and construction services which, coupled with
our significant base of commercially zoned and unencumbered land in existing
business parks, should give us a competitive advantage both as a real estate
operator and in future development activities.

We believe that the management of real estate opportunities and risks
can be done most effectively at regional or local levels. As a result, we
intend to continue our emphasis on increasing our market share and effective
rents in the primary markets where we own properties. We also expect to utilize
over 4,600 acres of unencumbered land and our many business relationships with
more than 4,200 commercial tenants to expand our build-to-suit business
(development projects substantially pre-leased to a single tenant) and to
pursue other development and acquisition opportunities in our primary markets.
We believe that this regional focus will allow us to assess market supply and
demand for real estate more effectively as well as to capitalize on the strong
relationships with our tenant base. In addition, we seek to further capitalize
on strong customer relationships to provide third-party construction and
build-for-sale services outside our primary markets.

Our strategy is to seek to develop and acquire primarily Class A
commercial properties located in markets with high growth potential for large
national and international companies and other quality regional and local
firms. Our industrial and suburban office development focuses on business parks
and mixed-use developments suitable for multiple projects on a single site
where we can create and control the business environment. These business parks
and mixed-use developments often include restaurants and other amenities, which
we believe will create an atmosphere that is particularly efficient and
desirable. Our retail development focuses on lifestyle, community and
neighborhood centers in our existing markets and is developed primarily for
held-for-sale opportunities. In 2004, we executed a new initiative with a
prominent healthcare real estate developer to jointly develop, construct and lease
medical office and related healthcare facilities on a merchant building basis.
As a fully integrated real estate company, we are able to arrange for or
provide to our industrial, office, medical and retail customers  not only well located and well maintained
facilities, but also additional services such as build-to-suit construction,
tenant finish construction, and expansion flexibility.


All of our properties are located in areas that include competitive
properties. Institutional investors, other REITs or local real estate operators
generally own such properties; however, no single competitor or small group of
competitors is dominant in our current markets. The supply and demand of
similar available rental properties may affect the rental rates we will receive
on our properties.

Financing Strategy

We seek to maintain a well-balanced, conservative and flexible capital
structure by: (i) extending and sequencing the maturity dates of debt; (ii)
borrowing primarily at fixed rates by targeting a variable rate component of
total debt less than 20%; (iii) pursuing current and future long-term debt
financings and refinancing on an unsecured basis;  (iv) maintaining conservative debt service
and fixed charge coverage ratios; and (v) issuing attractively priced perpetual
preferred stock for 5-10% of our total capital structure Management believes
that these strategies have enabled and should continue to enable us to
favorably access capital markets for our long-term requirements such as debt
refinancing and financing development and acquisitions of additional rental
properties. In addition, as discussed under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” we have a $500
million unsecured line of credit available for short-term fundings of  development and acquisition of additional
rental properties. Further, we pursue favorable opportunities to dispose of
assets that no longer meet our long-term investment criteria and recycle  the proceeds into new investments that we
believe have excellent long-term growth prospects. Our debt to total market
capitalization ratio (total market capitalization is defined as the total
market value of all outstanding Common and Preferred Shares and units of
limited partnership interest (“Units”) in DRLP plus outstanding indebtedness)
at December 31, 2004 was 29.5%. Our ratio of earnings to debt service and ratio
of earnings to fixed charges for the year ended December 31, 2004 were 1.96x
and 1.72x, respectively. In computing the ratio of earnings to debt service,
earnings have been calculated by adding debt service to income from continuing
operations before earnings or losses from the sale of land and ownership
interests in unconsolidated companies, net of impairment adjustments, and
minority interest in earnings of DRLP. Debt service consists of interest
expense and recurring principal amortization (excluding maturities) and
excludes amortization of debt issuance costs. In computing the ratio of
earnings to fixed charges, earnings have been calculated by adding fixed
charges, excluding capitalized interest, to income from continuing operations
before earnings or losses from the sale of land and ownership interests in
unconsolidated companies, net of impairment adjustments, and minority interest
in earnings of DRLP. Fixed charges consist of interest costs, whether expensed
or capitalized, the interest component of rental expense, amortization of debt
issuance costs and preferred stock dividend requirements.

Corporate Governance

Since our inception, we not only have strived to be a top-performer
operationally, but also to lead in issues important to investors such as
disclosure and corporate governance. Our system of governance reinforces this
commitment. Summarized below are the highlights of our Corporate Governance
initiatives.


Our Code of Conduct (which applies to all Directors and employees,
including the Chief Executive Officer and senior financial officers) and the
Corporate Governance Guidelines are available in the investor information/corporate
governance section of our website at www.dukerealty.com. A copy of these
documents may also be obtained without charge by writing to Duke Realty
Corporation, 600 East 96th Street, Suite 100, Indianapolis, Indiana 46240,
Attention: Investor Relations.

Other

For additional information regarding our investments and operations,
see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations,” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.” For additional information about our business segments, see Item 8, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.”

In addition to this Annual Report, we file quarterly and special
reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). All documents that are filed with the SEC are
available free of charge on our corporate website, which is www.dukerealty.com
You may also read and copy any document filed at the public reference
facilities of the SEC at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 25049. Please
call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information about the public
reference facilities. These documents also may be accessed through the SEC’s
electronic data gathering, analysis and retrieval system (“EDGAR”) via electronic
means, including the SEC’s home page on the Internet (http://www.sec.gov). In
addition, since some of our securities are listed on the New York Stock
Exchange, you may read SEC filings at the offices of the New York Stock
Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.


Item
2.  Properties

Product Review

As of December 31, 2004, we own an interest in a diversified portfolio
of 893 commercial properties encompassing over 114.2 million net rentable
square feet (including 17 properties comprising 4.2 million square feet under
development) and more than 4,600 acres of land for future development.

Industrial
Properties:

We own interests in 623 industrial
properties encompassing more than 84.5 million square feet (74% of total square
feet) more specifically described as follows:

•

Bulk Warehouses –

Industrial warehouse/distribution
buildings with clear ceiling heights of 20 feet or more. We own 410 buildings
totaling 71.5 million square feet of such properties.

•

Service Centers –

Also known as flex buildings or light
industrial, this product type has 12-18 foot clear ceiling heights and a
combination of drive-up and dock-height loading access. We own 213 buildings
totaling approximately 13.0 million square feet of such properties.

Office
Properties:

We own interests in 264 office buildings totaling approximately 29.1
million square feet (25% of total square feet). These properties include
primarily suburban office properties.

Retail
Properties:

We own interests in six retail projects totaling approximately 600,000
square feet (1% of total square feet). These properties encompass both power
and neighborhood shopping centers.

Land:

We
own or control more than 4,600 acres of land located primarily in existing
business parks. The land is ready for immediate use and is unencumbered. Over
69 million square feet of additional space can be developed on these sites and
substantially all of the land is zoned for either office, industrial or retail
development.

Service
Operations:

We provide property and asset management,
development, leasing and construction services to third party owners in
addition to our own properties. Our current property management base for third
parties includes over 8.2 million square feet of properties serving
approximately 300 tenants.

Property Descriptions

The following schedule represents the geographic highlights of
properties in our primary markets.


Duke Realty Corporation

Geographic Highlights

In Service Properties as of December 31, 2004

(1)

Includes all wholly owned and joint venture
projects shown at 100% as of report date.

(2)

Represents the average annual rental property
revenue due from tenants in occupancy as of the date of this report, excluding
additional rent due as operating expense reimbursements, landlord allowances
for operating expenses and percentage rents. 
Joint Venture properties are shown at the Company’s ownership percentage.

(3)

Represents properties not located in the
Company’s primary markets.  These
properties are located in similar midwest or southeast markets.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

We are not subject to any material pending
legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation arising in the
ordinary course of business. Our management expects that these ordinary routine
legal proceedings will be covered by insurance and does not expect these legal
proceedings to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations, or liquidity.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to
a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the
quarter ended December 31, 2004.

EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Robert M. Chapman,
age 51

.  Mr.
Chapman has served as Senior Executive Vice President, Real Estate Operations,
since November 2003. From 1999 through November 2003, Mr. Chapman served in
various real estate investment and operating positions within the Company.

Matthew A. Cohoat,
age 45

. Mr. Cohoat was named Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer on January 1, 2004. From 1990 through
2003, Mr. Cohoat held various positions in financial areas of the Company.

James B. Conner, age
46.

Mr. Connor has served as Regional Executive
Vice President for our Chicago Region since December 2003. Previously, Mr.
Connor served as Senior Vice President responsible for our Chicago Operations
since joining us in 1998.

Howard L. Feinsand,
age 57

.

Mr. Feinsand has served as our Executive Vice
President and General Counsel since 1999. Mr. Feinsand served on our Board of
Directors from 1988 to January 2003.

Robert D. Fessler,
age 47.

Mr. Fessler has served as a Regional
Executive Vice President of our Atlanta Region since July 2003.  Mr. Fessler was Senior Vice President of
Cincinnati Operations from 2001 to July 2003, and led the Cincinnati Industrial
Group from 1988 through 2002.

Steven R. Kennedy,
age


. Mr. Kennedy was named Executive Vice
President, Construction on January 1, 2004. From 1986 until 2004, he served in
various capacities in the construction group, most recently as Senior Vice
President.

Dennis D. Oklak, age

.  Mr.
Oklak was named President and Chief Executive Officer effective April 30, 2004.
He was Co-Chief Operating Officer from April 2002 through January 2003, at
which time he was named President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Oklak
assumed the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative
Officer in 1997. From 1986 through 1997, Mr. Oklak served in various financial
positions in the Company.

Christopher L.
Seger, age 37.

Mr. Seger was appointed Executive
Vice President, National Development/Construction in December 2003. From 2001
to 2003, Mr. Seger was Senior Vice President of our Florida Group.  From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Seger was Senior Vice
President of our Indiana Office Group.


PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant’s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities

Our common shares are listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol “DRE.” The following table sets forth the high and low sales
prices of the common stock for the periods indicated and the dividend paid per
share during each such period. Comparable cash dividends are expected in the
future. As of February 21, 2005, there were 11,588 record holders of common
shares.

On January 26, 2005, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.465 per
share, payable on February 28, 2005, to common shareholders of record on
February 14, 2005.

A summary of the tax characterization of the dividends paid per common
share for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 follows:

Item 6.  Selected Financial

Data

The following sets forth selected financial and operating information
on a historical basis for each of the years in the five-year period ended
December 31, 2004. The following information should be read in conjunction with
Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”
included in this Form 10-K (in thousands, except per share amounts):


(1) Funds From Operations (“FFO”) is used by industry analysts and
investors as a supplemental operating 
performance measure of an equity real estate investment trust (“REIT”).
FFO is calculated in accordance with the definition that was adopted by the
Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
(“NAREIT”). FFO, as defined by NAREIT, represents net income (loss) determined
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States (“GAAP”), excluding extraordinary items as defined under GAAP and gains
or losses from sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets,
plus certain non-cash items such as real estate asset depreciation and
amortization, and after similar adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and
joint ventures.

Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with
GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes
predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen
or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have
considered the presentation of operating results for real estate companies that
use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Thus, NAREIT
created FFO as a supplemental measure of REIT operating performance that
excludes historical cost depreciation, among other items, from GAAP net income.
Management believes that the use of FFO, combined with the required primary
GAAP presentations, improves the understanding of operating results of REITs
among the investing public and makes comparisons of REIT operating results more
meaningful. Management considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing
comparative operating and financial performance (although FFO should be
reviewed in conjunction with net income which remains the primary measure of
performance) because by excluding gains or losses related to sales of
previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate
asset depreciation and amortization, FFO assists in comparing the operating
performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to
different companies.

See reconciliation of FFO to GAAP net income under Year in Review
section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.

Item 7.  Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward
Looking Statements

Certain statements in this Annual Report, including those related to
our future operations, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important
factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or
industry results, to differ materially from any predictions of future results,
performance or achievements that we express or imply in this report. Some of
the most significant risks, uncertainties and other important factors that may
affect our business, operations, or future financial performance include, among
others:


•

Changes in
general economic and business conditions, including performance of financial
markets;

•

Our continued
qualification as a real estate investment trust;

•

Heightened
competition for tenants and decrease in property occupancy;

•

Potential
increases in real estate construction costs;

•

Potential
changes in interest rates;

•

Ability to
favorably raise debt and equity in the capital markets;

•

Inherent risks
in the real estate business including tenant defaults, potential liability
relating to environmental matters and liquidity of real estate investments; and

•

Other risks and
uncertainties described from time to time in the Company’s filings with the
SEC.

This list of risks and uncertainties, however, is not intended to be
exhaustive. We have on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
a Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 24, 2003, with additional risk factor
information.

The words “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “anticipate” and similar
expressions or statements regarding future periods are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the plans, expectations
and results expressed in or suggested by our forward-looking statements are
reasonable, all forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain as they
involve substantial risks and uncertainties beyond our control. New factors
emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict the nature
or assess the potential impact of each new factor on our business. Given these
uncertainties, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any
of our forward-looking statements for events or circumstances that arise after
the statement is made.

Business Overview

We are a self-administered and self managed real estate investment
trust that began operations through a related entity in 1972. As of December
31, 2004, we:

•

Owned or jointly
controlled 893 industrial, office and retail properties (including properties
under development), consisting of over 114.2 million square feet primarily
located in 10 states; and

•

Owned or jointly
controlled more than 4,600 acres of land with an estimated future development
potential of more than 69 million square feet of industrial, office and retail
properties.

We provide the following services for our
properties and for certain properties owned by third parties:

•

Property
leasing;

•

Property
management;

•

Construction;

•

Development; and

•

Other
tenant-related services.

Management Philosophy and Priorities

Our key business and financial strategies for the future include the
following:

•

Our business
objective is to increase Funds From Operations (“FFO”) by (i) maintaining and
increasing property occupancy and rental rates through the management of our
portfolio of existing properties; (ii) expanding existing properties in our
existing markets and by entering new markets; (iii) developing and acquiring
new properties for rental operations in our existing markets; (iv) using our
construction expertise to act as a general contractor in our existing markets
and other domestic markets on a fee basis; (v) developing properties in our
existing markets and other markets which we will sell through our merchant
building development program and (vi) providing a full line of real estate
services to our tenants and to third parties.


See the Year
in Review section below for further explanation and definition of FFO.

•

We intend to
continue our capital recycling program whereby we pursue opportunities to
dispose of investment properties and land held for development that no longer
meet our long-term growth strategies. We intend to recycle the capital from
these transactions to retire outstanding debt and invest in properties with
better long-term return potential for us.

•

Our financing
strategy is to actively manage the components of our capital structure
including common and preferred equity and debt to maintain a conservatively
leveraged balance sheet and investment grade ratings from our credit rating
agencies. This strategy provides us with the financial flexibility to fund both
development and acquisition opportunities. We seek to maintain a well-balanced,
conservative and flexible capital structure by: (i) extending and sequencing
the maturity dates of debt; (ii) borrowing primarily at fixed rates by
targeting a variable rate component of total debt less than 20%; (iii) pursuing
current and future long-term debt financings and refinancing on an unsecured
basis;  (iv) maintaining conservative
debt service and fixed charge coverage ratios; and (v) issuing attractively
priced perpetual preferred stock for 5-10% of our total capital structure.

Year in Review

Year 2004 presented a combination of economic and market challenges affecting
the broader real estate industry as well as our Company. In the face of these
challenges, we achieved steady operating results while maintaining a strong
balance sheet.

Net income available for common shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 2004 was $151.3 million, or $1.06 per share (diluted), compared to
net income of $161.9 million, or $1.19 per share (diluted) for the year ended
2003. The decrease is primarily attributable to a significant increase in
depreciation expense resulting from significant capital expenditures during
2003 and 2004 related to re-leasing existing space and the effects of the
adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141,

Business Combinations

(“SFAS 141”) in
recording acquisitions, particularly the recognition of short-lived in-place
lease intangible assets. See further discussion of this policy under the
Critical Accounting Polices section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Through increased leasing
activity, we achieved a growth in rental revenues in 2004 over 2003 as our
in-service portfolio year-end occupancy increased from 89.3% in 2003 to 90.9%
at the end of 2004. We also experienced an increase in our development and
construction of new properties for both owned investments and third party
construction projects in 2004 as compared to 2003.

As an important performance metric for us as a real estate company, FFO
available to common shareholders increased to $352.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 from $336.0 million for the same period in 2003, or 4.9%.

FFO is used by industry analysts and investors as a supplemental
operating performance measure of an equity real estate investment trust (“REIT”).
FFO is calculated in accordance with the definition that was adopted by the
Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
(“NAREIT”). FFO, as defined by NAREIT, represents net income (loss) determined
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America (“GAAP”), excluding extraordinary items as defined under GAAP
and gains or losses from sales of previously depreciated operating real estate
assets, plus certain non-cash items such as real estate asset depreciation and
amortization, and after similar adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and
joint ventures.


Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with
GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes
predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen
or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts have
considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use
historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. Thus, NAREIT
created FFO as a supplemental measure of REIT operating performance that
excludes historical cost depreciation, among other items, from GAAP net income.
Management believes that the use of FFO, combined with the required primary
GAAP presentations, improves the understanding of operating results of REITs
among the investing public and makes comparisons of REIT operating results more
meaningful. Management considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing
comparative operating and financial performance (although FFO should be
reviewed in conjunction with net income which remains the primary measure of
performance) because by excluding gains or losses related to sales of
previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate
asset depreciation and amortization, FFO assists in comparing the operating
performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to
different companies.

The following table summarizes the calculation of FFO for the years
ended December 31 (in thousands):

Throughout 2004, we continued to maintain a conservative balance sheet
and investment grade debt ratings from Moody’s (Baa1), Standard & Poors
(BBB+) and Fitch (BBB+). Our debt to total market capitalization ratio (total
market capitalization is defined as the total market value of all outstanding
common and preferred shares and units of limited partner interest in our
operating partnership plus outstanding indebtedness) of 29.5% at December 31,
2004 compared to 30.8% at December 31, 2003 continues to provide us financial
flexibility to fund new investments.

Highlights of our debt financing activity in 2004 are as follows:

•

In January 2004,
we issued $125 million of unsecured notes with an effective interest rate of
3.35%, due 2008.

•

In February
2004, we renewed our $500 million unsecured credit facility and in the process
reduced the stated interest rate by 5 basis points to LIBOR  + 60 basis points and extended the maturity
to 2007.

•

In August 2004,
we issued $250 million of unsecured notes with an effective interest rate of
6.33%, due 2014.  A portion of the
proceeds was used to retire $150 million of existing debt that had a blended
effective interest rate of 7.31%.

•

In December
2004, we issued $250 million of floating rate unsecured debt at 26 basis points
over LIBOR.  The debt matures in 2006,
but is callable at our option after six months.

We issued preferred stock during 2004 allowing us to redeem existing
higher rate preferred stock and continue to utilize preferred stock as a key
component of our capital structure. 
Highlights of preferred stock transactions in 2004 are as follows:

•

In February
2004, we issued $150 million of Series K preferred stock at a dividend rate of
6.5%. This issuance was in conjunction with the redemption of our $100 million
Series E preferred stock in January 2004, which had a dividend rate of 8.25%.
Although the redemption resulted in certain non-cash charges that were dilutive
to earnings in 2004, the lower dividend rate will reduce our future cost of
capital.


•

In March 2004,
we called for the redemption of our Series D convertible preferred stock. Prior
to the redemption, nearly all outstanding preferred D shares were converted
into common shares. The Series D shares carried a dividend rate of 7.375%.

•

In November
2004, we issued $200 million of Series L preferred stock at a dividend rate of
6.6%.

In addition to steady operating performance and prudent balance sheet
management during 2004, we continued to effectively execute our capital
recycling program and began several key initiatives and projects to leverage
our development and construction capabilities as follows:

•

We disposed of
nearly $150 million of older, non-strategic properties and used the proceeds to
help fund over $260 million of acquisitions. The acquisitions were
predominantly suburban office properties totaling 1.8 million square feet with
an expected return of 9.4%.

•

We increased our
investment in undeveloped land to provide greater opportunities to use our development
and construction expertise in the improving economic cycle. The new land
positions included the exercise of purchase options to acquire $44 million of
land in our newly announced 1,700 acre, multi-year Anson mixed-use development
project in suburban Indianapolis. Additionally, we acquired over $15 million of
land to develop a suburban office park with retail amenities in a vibrant north
Dallas suburb, thus allowing us to enter the Dallas suburban office market and
leverage our development and construction plan.

•

We formed our
National Development and Construction Group in 2004 to pursue opportunities
with companies that have a national presence and seek to expand in multiple locations,
including those outside our core markets. This group combines our multiple
disciplines including property development, legal and construction management
to provide a range of development options for customers.

•

Also, 2004 saw
the creation of a strategic agreement with a developer of medical office and healthcare  related facilities to jointly develop and
sell medical facilities throughout the United States. Our partner will develop,
lease and manage the facilities while we provide construction financing and
general contractor services. We will share 50/50 in the profits upon sale of
the projects. This initiative allows us to further leverage our construction
capabilities in a significantly growing industry.

•

Finally, we will
continue to develop long-term investment assets to be held in our portfolio,
develop assets to be sold upon completion and perform third-party construction
projects. With over $400 million in our development pipeline at December 31,
2004, we are encouraged about the long-term growth opportunities in our
business.

Key Performance Indicators

Our operating results depend primarily upon rental income from our
office, industrial and retail properties (“Rental Operations”). The following
highlights the areas of Rental Operations that we consider critical for future
revenue growth (all square footage totals and occupancy percentages reflect
both wholly-owned properties and properties in joint ventures):

Occupancy Analysis:

As discussed above, the ability to maintain occupancy rates is a principal
driver of our results of operations. The following table sets forth occupancy
information regarding our in-service portfolio of rental properties as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands, except percent occupied):


We experienced occupancy improvement in our industrial bulk and office
properties during 2004 as business fundamentals improved moderately during the
year.

Lease Expiration and
Renewals:

Our ability to maintain and grow
occupancy rates primarily depends upon our continuing ability to re-lease
expiring space. The following table reflects our in-service lease expiration
schedule as of December 31, 2004, by product type. The table indicates square
footage and annualized net effective rents (based on December 2004 rental
revenue) under expiring leases (in thousands):

We renewed 74.0% and 71.4% of our leases up for renewal
totaling approximately 10.0 million and 7.6 million square feet on which we
attained a 1.4% and a 1.1% growth in net effective rents in 2004 and 2003,
respectively. The relatively flat growth in rental rates is indicative of
excess vacancies in many of our markets requiring competitive pricing
strategies to retain current tenants. Our lease renewal percentages over the
past three years have remained relatively consistent at a 70-75% success rate
despite the relatively weak market conditions. We do not expect this renewal
percentage in 2005 to differ from that experienced in 2004.

The average term of renewals increased to 3.8 years in 2004
from 3.5 years in 2003. The increase in the average term is due to competitive
market conditions with tenants seeking longer leases at attractive rates.

Future Development:

Another source of growth in earnings is the
development of additional rental properties. These properties should provide
future earnings through Service Operations income upon sale or from Rental
Operations growth as they are placed in service. We had 4.2 million square feet
of property under development with total project costs of $194.9 million at
December 31, 2004, compared to 2.8 million square feet and total project costs
of $160.3 million at December 31, 2003. The increase in volume is attributable
to a general increase in leasing activity and speculative and preleased
developments in 2004. In 2003, we specifically limited the development of speculative
properties due to the weakened economy. Our speculative development levels are
still below historical levels; however, as certain sectors of the economy begin
to improve, our level of speculative development may increase.

A summary of properties under development as of December
31, 2004, follows (in thousands, except percent leased and anticipated
stabilized returns):


Acquisition and
Disposition Activity:

We have an active capital recycling program based upon a strategy to
dispose of non-strategic assets and utilize the proceeds to fund new
development and acquisitions of more desirable properties. Through this
program, we are continually improving the overall quality of our investment
portfolio.

Sales proceeds from dispositions of
held-for-rental properties in 2004 and 2003, were $147 and $126 million,
respectively. The disposition proceeds were used to partially fund 2004 and
2003 acquisitions of $264 and $232 million, respectively. We will continue to
pursue both disposition and acquisition opportunities that arise in 2005.

Results of Operations

A summary of our operating results and property statistics for each of
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, follows (in
thousands, except number of properties and per share amounts):


Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2004 to
Year Ended December 31, 2003

Rental Income from Continuing Operations

Rental income from continuing operations increased from
$689.3 million in 2003 to $744.1 million in 2004. The following table
reconciles rental income from continuing operations by reportable segment to
total reported rental income from continuing operations for the years ended December
31, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands):

Our three reportable segments comprising Rental Operations
(office, industrial and retail) are all within the real estate industry;
however, the same economic and industry conditions do not necessarily affect
them. The primary causes of the increase in rental income from continuing
operations, with specific references to a particular segment when applicable,
are summarized below:

•

Our in-service occupancy increased from 89.3% at
December 31, 2003, to 90.9% at December 31, 2004. Improving occupancy continues
to be a key management goal in 2005.

•

During the year ended 2004, we acquired 19 new
properties and placed 18 development projects in-service. These acquisitions
and developments are the primary factors in the overall $54.8 million increase
in rental revenue for the year ended 2004, compared to the same period in 2003.

The 19
property acquisitions totaled $264.0 million on 2.6 million square feet and
were 80.3% leased at December 31, 2004. The two largest acquisitions were
office buildings in Atlanta and Cincinnati. The 2004 acquisitions provided
revenues of $14.2 million. Revenues from acquisitions that occurred during 2003
were $35.2 million in 2004 compared to $11.9 million in 2003.

Developments
placed in service in 2004 provided revenues of $9.9 million, while revenues
associated with developments placed in service in 2003 totaled $14.7 million in
2004 compared to $6.6 million in 2003.

•

The rental income shown above includes lease
termination fees.  Lease termination fees
relate to specific tenants that pay a fee to terminate their lease obligations
before the end of the contractual lease term. Lease termination fees totaled
$16.2 million in 2003, compared to $14.7 in 2004. The decrease in termination
fees corresponds with fewer corporate downsizings due to improving market
conditions.

Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated
Companies

Equity in earnings represents our ownership share of net income from
investments in unconsolidated companies. These joint ventures generally own and
operate rental properties and hold land for development.  These earnings decreased from $23.7 in 2003
to $21.6 million in 2004 despite overall occupancy remaining relatively flat
around 94%. The decrease in earnings is due to the following:

•

A tenant filed for bankruptcy in one joint venture
property resulting in occupancy for the property at the end of 2004 being 69.7%
versus 87.4% in 2003.

•

We sold our interest in one joint venture in
December 2003 and, as a result, no earnings were recorded in 2004.

Rental Expenses and Real Estate Taxes

The following table reconciles rental expenses and real estate taxes by
reportable segment to our total reported amounts in the statement of operations
for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands):


The increased rental and real estate tax expenses for 2004, as compared to
2003, were primarily the result of our increase in average in-service square
feet and occupancy. These increases resulted from our acquisition activities
and developments placed in service as noted above.

Interest
Expense

Interest expense increased from $125.7 million in 2003 to $135.1
million in 2004. We issued new debt to fund debt maturities, new developments and
acquisitions and to take advantage of the favorable interest rate environment.
The following is a summary of debt activities for 2004:

•

In January, we obtained a $65 million floating rate
term loan and immediately fixed the rate at 2.18% with two interest rate swaps.
We expect to pay off this loan in the first quarter of 2005. Also in January,
we issued $125 million of unsecured debt with a four-year maturity at 3.35%. In
August we issued $250 million of unsecured debt with a ten-year maturity at an effective
rate of  6.33%. In December we issued
$250 million of unsecured floating rate debt at 26 basis points over LIBOR. The
debt matures in two years, but is callable at our option after six months.

•

In August, we paid off $15 million of a $40 million
secured floating rate term loan. We also assumed $29.9 million of secured debt
in conjunction with a property acquisition in Atlanta.

•

The average balance and average borrowing rate of
our $500 million revolving credit facility were slightly higher in 2004 than in
2003. At the end of 2004 we were not utilizing our credit facility.

Depreciation and Amortization Expense

Depreciation and amortization expense increased from $188.0 million in
2003 to $224.6 million in 2004 as a result of increased capital spending
associated with increased leasing, the additional basis resulting from
acquisitions, development activity and the application of SFAS 141 as described
below. The points below highlight the significant increase in depreciation and
amortization.

•

Depreciation expense on tenant improvements
increased by $14.1 million.

•

Depreciation expense on buildings increased by $6.0
million.

•

Lease commission amortization increased by $2.2
million.

The amortization expense associated with acquired lease intangible assets
increased by approximately $10.0 million. The acquisitions were accounted for
in accordance with SFAS 141, which requires the allocation of a portion of a
property’s purchase price to intangible assets for leases acquired and in-place
at the closing date of the acquisition. These intangible assets are amortized
over the remaining life of the leases (generally 3-5 years) as compared to the
building basis portion of the acquisition, which is depreciated over 40 years.

Service
Operations

Service Operations primarily consist of our merchant building sales and
the leasing, management, construction and development services for joint
venture properties and properties owned by third parties.  These operations are heavily influenced by
the current state of the economy as leasing and management fees


are dependent upon occupancy while construction and development
services rely on businesses expanding operations. Service Operations earnings
increased from $21.8 million in 2003 to $24.4 million in 2004.  The increase reflects higher construction
volumes partially offset by increased staffing costs for our new National
Development and Construction group and construction jobs in certain
markets.  Other factors impacting service
operations are discussed below.

•

We experienced a 1.6% decrease in our overall gross
profit margin percentage in our general contractor business in 2004 as compared
to 2003, due to continued competitive pricing pressure in many of our markets.
We expect margins to increase in 2005 as economic conditions improve.  However, despite this decrease, we were able
to increase our net general contractor revenues from $26.8 million in 2003 to
$27.6 million in 2004 because of an increase in volume. This volume increase
was attributable to continued low financing costs available to businesses,
thereby making it more attractive for them to own instead of lease facilities.
We have a substantial backlog of $183.2 million for third party construction as
of December 31, 2004, that will carry into 2005.

•

Our merchant building development and sales program,
whereby a building is developed by us and then sold, is a significant component
of construction and development income. During 2004, we generated after tax gains
of $16.5 million from the sale of six properties compared to $9.6 million from
the sale of four properties in 2003. Profit margins on these types of building
sales fluctuate by sale depending on the type of property being sold, the
strength of the underlying tenant and nature of the sale, such as a
pre-contracted purchase price for a primary tenant versus a sale on the open
market.

General and Administrative Expense

General and administrative expense increased from $22.1 million in 2003
to $26.4 million in 2004. The increase was a result of increased staffing and
employee compensation costs to support development of our National Development
and Construction group. We also experienced an increase in marketing to support
certain new projects.

Other Income and Expenses

Earnings from sales of land and ownership interests in unconsolidated
companies, net of impairment adjustments, is comprised of the following amounts
in 2004 and 2003 (in thousands):

In the first quarter of 2003, we sold our 50% interest in a joint
venture that owned and operated depreciable investment property. The joint
venture developed and operated real estate assets; thus, the gain was not
included in operating income.

Gain on land sales are derived from sales of undeveloped land owned by
us. We pursue opportunities to dispose of land in markets with a high
concentration of undeveloped land and in those markets where the land no longer
meets our strategic development plans. The increase was partially attributable
to a land sale to a current corporate tenant for potential future expansion.

We recorded $424,000 and $560,000 of impairment charges associated with
contracts to sell land parcels for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. As of December 31, 2004, only one parcel on which we recorded
impairment charges is still owned by us. We anticipate selling this parcel in
the first quarter of 2005.


Discontinued Operations

We have classified operations of 86 buildings as discontinued
operations as of December 31, 2004. These 86 buildings consist of 69
industrial, 12 office and five retail properties. As a result, we classified
net income from operations, net of minority interest, of $1.6 million, $6.3
million and $10.7 million as net income from discontinued operations for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In addition, 41 of
the properties classified in discontinued operations were sold during 2004, 42
properties were sold during 2003, two properties were sold during 2002 and one
operating property is classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2004. The
gains on disposal of these properties, net of impairment adjustment and
minority interest, of $23.9 million and $11.8 million for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are also reported in discontinued
operations. For the year ended December 31, 2002, a $4.5 million loss on
disposal of properties, net of impairment adjustments and minority interest, is
reported in discontinued operations due to impairment charges of $7.7 million
recorded on three properties in 2002 that were later sold in 2003 and 2004.

Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2003 to
Year Ended December 31, 2002

Rental Income from Continuing Operations

Rental income from continuing operations increased from $652.8 million
in 2002 to $689.3 million in 2003.  The
following table reconciles rental income by reportable segment to our total
reported rental income from continuing operations for the years ended December
31, 2003 and 2002 (in thousands):

Although our three reportable segments comprising Rental Operations
(office, industrial and retail) are all within the real estate industry, they
are not necessarily affected by the same economic and industry conditions. For
example, our retail segment experienced high occupancies and strong overall
performance during 2003, while our office and industrial segments reflected the
weaker economic environment for those property types. The primary causes of the
increase in rental income from continuing operations, with specific references
to a particular segment when applicable, are summarized below:

•

During 2003, in-service occupancy improved from
87.1% at the end of 2002 to 89.3% at the end of 2003. The second half of 2003
was highlighted by a significant increase in the industrial portfolio occupancy
of 2.1% along with a slight increase in office portfolio occupancy of 0.9%.

•

Lease termination fees totaled $27.4 million in 2002
compared to $16.2 million in 2003. Most of this decrease was attributable to
the office segment, which recognized $21.1 million of termination fees in 2002
as compared to $11.8 million in 2003. Lease termination fees relate to specific
tenants that pay a fee to terminate their lease obligations before the end of
the contractual lease term. The high volume of termination fees in 2002 was
reflective of the contraction of the business of large office users during that
year and their desire to downsize their use of office space. The decrease in
termination fees for 2003 was indicative of an improving economy and a more
stable financial position of our tenants.

•

During the year ended 2003, we acquired $232 million
of properties totaling 2.1 million square feet. The acquisitions were primarily
Class A office buildings in existing markets with overall occupancy near 90%.
Revenues associated with these acquisitions totaled $11.9 million in 2003. In
addition, revenues from 2002 acquisitions totaled $15.8 million in 2003
compared to $4.8 million in 2002. This significant increase is primarily due to
a large office acquisition that closed at the end of December 2002.


•

Developments placed in-service in 2003 provided
revenues of $6.6 million, while revenues associated with developments placed
in-service in 2002 totaled $13.7 million in 2003 compared to $4.7 million in
2002.

•

Proceeds from dispositions of held for rental properties
totaled $126.1 million in 2003, compared to $40.9 million in 2002. These
properties generated revenue of $12.5 million in 2003 versus $19.6 million in
2002.

Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Companies

Equity in earnings represents our ownership share of net
income from investments in unconsolidated companies. These joint ventures
generally own and operate rental properties and hold land for development.
These earnings decreased from $27.2 million in 2002 to $23.7 million in 2003.
This decrease is a result of the following significant activity:

•

In 2002, a $1.8 million gain was recognized on a
property that was developed and sold upon completion to a third party.

•

In 2003, our total investment in joint ventures
decreased. This decrease was the result of our acquiring our partner’s interest
in three joint ventures, selling our interest in two and one venture being
dissolved in 2003. While the number of joint ventures decreased, the joint
ventures’ occupancy increased from 93.2% to 94.0% in 2003.

Rental Expenses and Real Estate Taxes

The following table reconciles rental expenses and real
estate taxes by reportable segment to our total reported amounts in the
statement of operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 (in
thousands):

The increased rental and real estate tax expenses for 2003, as compared
to 2002, was primarily the result of our increase in average in-service square
feet and occupancy. These increases resulted from our acquisition activities
and developments placed in service in 2003.

Interest
Expense

Our interest expense increased from $111.4 million in 2002 to $125.7
million in 2003. Although we benefited from significantly lower interest rates
during 2003, interest expense increased because of increased borrowings during
the year and a decrease in the amount of interest that was capitalized. The
increased borrowings reflected the funding of our developments during the year
and the excess of properties acquired over those disposed. Interest capitalized
for 2003 was significantly lower than 2002 as development activity for 2003 was
substantially slower than prior years. Development starts for 2003 totaled only
$108 million compared to approximately $225 million for 2002. Other significant
factors impacting interest expense for 2003 are summarized as follows:


•

We continued to replace secured debt financing with
unsecured debt, and paid off over $120 million of secured loans throughout
2003. The payoffs included secured loans due in 2003 and those due in 2004 and
beyond for which we were able to take advantage of expired or negotiated lower
pre-payment penalties and utilize lower financing costs from unsecured debt
offerings or the unsecured line of credit.

•

Approximately $425 million of new unsecured debt was
issued in 2003. We issued $175 million of seven-year debt in January 2003 at an
effective interest rate of 5.37%, $150 million of ten-year debt in May 2003 at
an effective interest rate of 4.64% and $100 million of four-year debt in
November 2003 at an effective interest rate of 3.63%. We retired $175 million
of debt in June 2003 that had an effective interest rate of 7.33%.

•

We utilized our $500 million unsecured line of
credit more heavily in 2003 than during 2002 in order to take advantage of the
historically low borrowing costs. The balance on the line of credit was $351
million at December 31, 2003 compared to $281 million at December 31, 2002.

Depreciation and Amortization Expense

Depreciation and amortization expense for 2003 increased by
approximately $22.0 million compared to 2002 because of an increase in tenant
improvements and leasing costs. As discussed earlier, we experienced higher
overall occupancy and more acquisition activity in 2003, which resulted in
increased capital expenditures for tenant improvements and deferred lease
commissions as well as increases in held for investment property basis. The
following highlights the significant changes in depreciable and amortizable
property during 2003:

•

The basis of the held for investment property
portfolio increased by $166 million as a result of our development and
acquisition activity.

•

We incurred tenant improvement costs of $91.3
million in 2003.

•

We incurred lease commissions of $41.6 million in
2003.

The amortization associated with the acquired lease intangible assets
recorded on 2003 acquisitions totaled $4.2 million. The acquisitions were
accounted for in accordance with SFAS 141, which  requires the allocation of a portion of a
property’s purchase price to intangible assets for leases acquired and in-place
at the closing date of the acquisition. These intangible assets are amortized
over the remaining life of the leases (generally 3-5 years) as compared to the
building basis portion of the acquisition, which is depreciated over 40 years.

Service Operations

Service Operations primarily consist of leasing, management,
construction and development services for joint venture properties and
properties owned by third parties. These operations are heavily influenced by
the current state of the economy as leasing and management fees are dependent
upon occupancy while construction and development services rely on businesses
expanding operations. The following highlights the significant components of
revenues in Service Operations:

•

We experienced more than a 2% decrease in overall
gross profit margin percentage in our general contractor business in 2003
because of more competitive pricing in many of our markets.  However, despite this decrease, we were able
to increase net general contractor revenues from $21.9 million in 2002 to $26.8
million in 2003 because of a significant increase in volume. This volume
increase was attributable to the low cost of financing available to businesses,
thereby making it more attractive for them to own instead of lease facilities.

•

Property management, maintenance and leasing fee
revenues have remained fairly constant between 2002 and 2003, as the number of
properties we managed has not changed significantly.

•

Construction management and development activity
income represents construction and development fees earned on projects where we
act as the construction manager along with profits


from our merchant building program under which we develop property with
the intent to sell upon completion. The decrease in revenues from $29.4 million
in 2002 to $15.5 million in 2003 is primarily due to fewer properties being
sold from the program in 2003. During 2002, we sold eight properties for a net
gain of $21.7 million compared to the sale of four properties in 2003 for a net
gain of $9.6 million in 2003. Profit margins on these types of transactions fluctuate
by sale depending on the type of property being sold, the strength of the
underlying tenant and the nature of the sale, such as a pre-contracted purchase
price for a primary tenant versus a sale on the open market.

General and Administrative Expense

General and administrative expense decreased from $25.3 million in 2002
to $22.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease is
primarily attributable to an increase in construction volume for third party
projects resulting in a greater allocation of overhead to Service Operations
operating expenses.

Other Income and Expenses

Earnings from sales of land, depreciable property dispositions and
ownership interests in unconsolidated companies, net of impairment adjustments,
is comprised of the following amounts in 2003 and 2002 (in thousands):

Gain on sales of depreciable properties represent sales of previously
held for investment rental properties which did not qualify to be classified as
discontinued operations under SFAS No. 144,

Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

(“SFAS 144”).
There were no such sales in 2003.

In 2003, we sold our interests in two joint ventures that owned and
operated depreciable investment property. We owned 50% of each of these joint
ventures.

Gain on land sales represents sales of undeveloped land we owned. We
pursue opportunities to dispose of land in markets with a high concentration of
undeveloped land and those markets where the land no longer meets our strategic
development plans.

We recorded $560,000 of impairment charges on three land parcels that
were sold in 2003. The $1.7 million adjustment recorded in 2002 was associated
with three properties determined to be impaired.

Other revenue and expenses are comprised primarily of the write-off of
contract development costs for abandoned development projects and gains on
terminations of interest rate swaps. In 2003, we recorded contract development
expenses of $1.0 million compared to $1.2 million in 2002. We accumulate costs
of potential projects as an asset until such time as the costs are capitalized
into a new project or expensed for a failed project.

In 2003, we terminated four forward starting
interest rate swap agreements for a net gain of $643,000. The swap agreements
were entered into as hedges for future anticipated debt issuances. These
agreements were terminated as a result of our capital needs being met through
the issuance of the Series J Preferred Stock in lieu of the contemplated debt
issuances. In 2002, a $1.4 million gain was recognized in connection with a
swap that did not qualify for hedge accounting. See discussion of our use of
derivative instruments in the footnotes to the financial statements.


Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of our consolidated financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Our estimates,
judgments and assumptions are continually evaluated based upon available
information and experience. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
includes further discussion of our significant accounting policies.

Our management has assessed the accounting policies
used in the preparation of our financial statements and discussed them with our
Audit Committee and independent auditors. The following accounting policies are
considered critical based upon materiality to the financial statements, degree
of judgment involved in estimating reported amounts and sensitivity to changes
in industry and economic conditions:

Accounting for Joint Ventures:

We analyze our
investments in joint ventures under Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
Interpretation No. 46(R),

Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities,

to determine if the joint venture is
considered a variable interest entity and would require consolidation. We have
equity interests ranging from 10%-75% in joint ventures that own and operate
rental properties and hold land for development. We consolidate those joint
ventures that we control through majority ownership interests or substantial
participating rights. Control is further demonstrated by the ability of the
general partner to manage day-to-day operations, refinance debt and sell the
assets of the joint venture without the consent of the limited partner and
inability of the limited partner to replace the general partner. We use the
equity method of accounting for those joint ventures where we do not have
control over operating and financial polices. Under the equity method of accounting,
our investment in each joint venture is included on our balance sheet; however,
the assets and liabilities of the joint ventures for which we use the equity
method are not included on our balance sheet.

Cost Capitalization:

Direct and certain indirect
costs, including interest, clearly associated and incremental to the
development, construction, leasing or expansion of real estate investments are
capitalized as a cost of the property. The following discusses the significant
categories of costs we incur:

Within our Rental Operations, direct and indirect
costs are capitalized under the guidelines of SFAS No. 67,

Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of
Real Estate Projects

(“SFAS 67

”),

and interest costs are capitalized under the guidelines of SFAS No.
34, “

Capitalization of Interest Cost

”
(“SFAS 34”). We capitalize these project costs associated with the initial
construction of a property up to the time the property is substantially
complete and ready for its intended use. We believe the completion of the
building shell is the proper basis for determining substantial completion and
that this basis is the most widely accepted standard in the real estate
industry. The interest rate used to capitalize interest is based upon our
average borrowing rate on existing debt.

In addition, we capitalize costs, including interest
costs, on vacant space during extended lease-up periods after construction of
the building shell has been completed if costs are being incurred to ready the
vacant space for its intended use. If costs and activities incurred to ready
the vacant space cease, then cost capitalization is also discontinued until
such activities are resumed. Once necessary work has been completed on a vacant
space, project costs are no longer capitalized. We cease capitalization of all
project costs on extended lease-up periods after the shorter of a one-year
period after the completion of the building shell or when the property attains
a 90% occupancy. We follow guidelines in SFAS 34 and SFAS 67 in determining the
capitalization of project costs during the lease-up period of a property and
believe that this treatment is consistent with real estate industry standards
for project cost capitalization.


All direct construction and development costs
associated with the development of a new property are capitalized. In addition,
all leasing commissions paid to third parties for new leases or lease renewals
are capitalized. A portion of our indirect costs considered directly related
and incremental to construction/development and leasing efforts are
capitalized. In assessing the amount of indirect costs to be capitalized, we
first allocate payroll costs, on a department-by-department basis, among
activities for which capitalization is warranted (i.e., construction,
development and leasing) and those for which capitalization is not
warranted  (i.e., property management,
maintenance, acquisitions and dispositions and general corporate functions). To
the extent the employees of a department split their time between capitalizable
and non-capitalizable activities, the allocations are made based on estimates
of the actual amount of time spent in each activity. Once the payroll costs are
allocated, the non-payroll costs of each department are allocated among the
capitalizable and non-capitalizable activities in the same proportion as
payroll costs. The capitalized cost pool does not include any costs allocable
to our executive officers.

To ensure that an
appropriate amount of costs are capitalized, the amount of capitalized costs
that are allocated to a specific project are limited to amounts using standards
we developed. These standards consist of a percentage of the total development
costs of a project and a percentage of the total gross lease amount payable
under a specific lease. These standards are derived after considering both the
amount of costs that would need to be paid by us if the services were performed
by third parties, and the amounts that would be allocated if the personnel in
the departments were working at full capacity. The use of these standards
ensures that overhead costs attributable to downtime or to unsuccessful
projects or leasing activities are not capitalized by us.

Impairment
of Real Estate Investments:

We evaluate our real estate
investments upon occurrence of significant changes in the operations, but not
less than annually, to assess whether any impairment indications are present
that affect the recovery of the recorded value. If any real estate investment
is considered impaired, a loss is provided to reduce the carrying value of the
asset to its estimated fair value. We utilize the guidelines established under
SFAS 144 to determine if impairment conditions exist. Under SFAS 144, we review
the expected undiscounted cash flows of each property in our held for rental
portfolio to determine if there are any indications of impairment of a
property. The review of anticipated cash flows involves subjective assumptions
of estimated occupancy and rental rates and ultimate residual value. In
addition to reviewing anticipated cash flows, we assess other factors such as
changes in business climate and legal factors that may affect the ultimate
value of the property. These assumptions are subjective and the anticipated
cash flows may not ultimately be achieved.

Real estate assets to be
disposed of are reported at the lower of their carrying value amount or the
fair value less estimated cost to sell.

Acquisition
of Real Estate Property.

In accordance with SFAS 141, we
allocate the purchase price of acquired properties to net tangible and
identified intangible assets based on their respective fair values.

The allocation to
tangible assets (buildings, tenant improvements and land) is based upon
management’s determination of the value of the property as if it were vacant
using discounted cash flow models similar to those used by independent
appraisers. Factors considered by management include an estimate of carrying
costs during the expected lease-up periods considering current market
conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. The remaining purchase price
is allocated among three categories of intangible assets consisting of the
above or below market component of in–place leases, the value of in-place leases
and the value of customer relationships.


•

The value allocable to the above or below market
component of an acquired in-place lease is determined based upon the present
value (using an interest rate which reflects the risks associated with the
lease) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid
pursuant to the lease over its remaining term and (ii) management’s estimate of
the amounts that would be paid using current fair market rates over the
remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated to above or below market
leases are included in deferred leasing and other costs in the balance sheet
and are amortized to rental income over the remaining terms of the respective
leases.

•

The total amount of intangible assets is further
allocated to in-place lease values and to customer relationship values, based
upon management’s assessment of their respective values. These intangible
assets are included in deferred leasing and other costs in the balance sheet
and are depreciated over the remaining term of the existing lease, or the
anticipated life of the customer relationship, as applicable.

Valuation
of Receivables:

We are subject to tenant defaults and
bankruptcies that could affect the collection of outstanding receivables. In
order to mitigate these risks, we perform in-house credit review and analysis
on major existing tenants and all significant leases before they are executed.
We have established the following procedures and policies to evaluate the
collectibility of outstanding receivables and record allowances:

•

We maintain a tenant “watch list” containing a list
of significant tenants for which the payment of receivables and future rent may
be at risk. Various factors such as late rent payments, lease or debt
instrument defaults, and indications of a deteriorating financial position are
considered when determining whether to include a tenant on the watch list.

•

As a matter of policy, we reserve the entire
receivable balance, including straight-line rent, of any tenant with an amount
outstanding over 90 days.

•

Straight-line rent receivables for any tenant on the
watch list or any other tenant identified as a potential long-term risk,
regardless of the status of rent receivables, are reviewed and reserved as
necessary.

Revenue
Recognition on Construction Contracts:

We recognize income on
construction contracts where we serve as a general contractor on the percentage
of completion method. Using this method, profits are recorded on the basis of
our estimates of the overall profit and percentage of completion of individual
contracts. A portion of the estimated profits is accrued based upon our
estimates of the percentage of completion of the construction contract.
Cumulative revenues recognized may be less or greater than cumulative costs and
profits billed at any point in time during a contract’s term. This revenue
recognition method involves inherent risks relating to profit and cost
estimates with those risks reduced through approval and monitoring processes.

With regards to critical
accounting policies, management has discussed the following with the Audit
Committee:

•

Criteria for identifying and selecting;

•

Methodology in applying; and

•

Impact on the financial statements.

The Audit Committee has
reviewed the critical accounting policies we identified.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Sources of Liquidity

We expect to meet our
liquidity requirements over the next twelve months, including payments of
dividends and distributions as well as recurring capital expenditures relating
to maintaining our current real estate assets, primarily through the following:


•

working
capital; and

•

net
cash provided by operating activities

Although we historically
have not used any other sources of funds to pay for recurring capital
expenditures on our current real estate investments, the use of borrowings or
property disposition proceeds may be temporarily needed to fund such expenditures
during periods of high leasing volume.

We expect to meet
long-term liquidity requirements, such as scheduled mortgage debt maturities,
preferred stock redemptions, the retirement of unsecured notes and amounts
outstanding under the unsecured credit facility, property acquisitions,
financing of development activities and other non-recurring capital
improvements, primarily from the following sources:

•

issuance
of additional unsecured notes;

•

issuance
of additional preferred stock;

•

undistributed
cash provided by operating activities, if any; and

•

proceeds
received from real estate dispositions.

Rental
Operations

We believe our principal
source of liquidity, cash flows from Rental Operations, provides a stable
source of cash to fund operational expenses. We believe this cash-based revenue
stream is substantially aligned with revenue recognition (except for periodic
straight-line rental income accruals and amortization of above or below market
rents) as cash receipts from the leasing of rental properties are generally
received in advance of or in a short time following the actual revenue
recognition. We are subject to risks of decreased occupancy through market
conditions as well as tenant defaults and bankruptcies, and potential reduction
in rental rates upon renewal or re-letting of properties, which would result in
reduced cash flow from operations. However, we believe that these risks are
mitigated by our strong market presence in most locations and the fact that we
perform in-house credit review and analysis on major tenants and all
significant leases before they are executed.

Credit
Facilities

We had one unsecured line
of credit available at December 31, 2004, described as follows (in
thousands):

Description

Borrowing

Capacity

Maturity

Date

Interest

Rate

Outstanding

at December

31, 2004

Unsecured Line of Credit

$

500,000

January 2007

LIBOR + .60

%

$

—

The stated interest rate
under the line is LIBOR plus sixty basis points.  However, the facility provides us with an
option to obtain borrowings from financial institutions that participate in the
line, at rates lower than the stated interest rate, subject to certain
restrictions.  At December 31, 2004,
we were not using this facility.

The line of credit
facility also contains financial covenants that require us to meet defined
levels of performance.  As of December 31,
2004, we are in compliance with all covenants and expect to remain in
compliance for the foreseeable future.

Debt
and Equity Securities

We currently have on file
with the SEC an effective shelf registration statement that permits us to sell
up to an additional $795.0 million of unsecured debt securities and an
additional $350.7 million of common and preferred stock as of December 31,
2004.  From time-to-time, we expect to
issue additional securities under these registration statements to fund
development and acquisition of additional rental properties and to fund the
repayment of the credit facility and other long-term debt upon maturity.


The indenture governing
our unsecured notes also requires us to comply with financial ratios and other
covenants regarding our operations. We are currently in compliance with all
such covenants and expect to remain in compliance for the foreseeable future.

Sale
of Real Estate Assets

We utilize sales of real
estate assets as an additional source of liquidity. We pursue opportunities to
sell real estate assets and prune our older portfolio properties when
beneficial to our long-term strategy.

Uses
of Liquidity

Our principal uses of
liquidity include the following:

•

Property
investments;

•

Recurring
leasing/capital costs;

•

Dividends
and distributions to shareholders and unitholders;

•

Long-term
debt maturities; and

•

Other
contractual obligations.

Property
Investments

We evaluate development
and acquisition opportunities based upon market outlook, supply, and long-term
growth potential.

Recurring
expenditures

A summary of our
recurring capital expenditures is as follows for the year ended December 31  (in thousands):

The increase in recurring
capital expenditures is the result of higher leasing activity during 2004. Our
lease renewal percentage increased from 71.4% in 2003 to 74.0% in 2004.

Dividends
and Distributions

In order to qualify as a
REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must currently distribute at least 90%
of our taxable income to shareholders. We paid dividends per share of $1.85,
$1.83 and $1.81 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. We expect to continue to distribute taxable earnings to meet the
requirements to maintain our REIT status. However, distributions are declared
at the discretion of our Board of Directors and are subject to actual cash
available for distribution, our financial condition, capital requirements and
such other factors, as our Board of Directors deems relevant.

Debt
Maturities

Debt outstanding at December 31,
2004, totaled $2.5 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 5.69%
maturing at various dates through 2028. We had $2.3 billion of unsecured debt
and $203.1 million of secured debt outstanding at December 31, 2004.
Scheduled principal amortization of such debt totaled $7.3 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004.

Following is a summary of
the scheduled future amortization and maturities of our indebtedness at December 31,
2004 (in thousands):


Historical
Cash Flows

A comparison of our
historical cash flows for 2004, 2003 and 2002 is as follows (in millions):

Operating
Activities

Cash flows from operating
activities provide the cash necessary to meet normal operational requirements
of our rental operations and merchant building activities. The receipt of
rental income from rental operations continues to provide the primary source of
our revenues and operating cash flows. In addition, we also develop buildings
with the intent to sell, which provides another significant source of operating
cash flow activity.

•

During the year ended December 31,
2004, we incurred merchant building development costs of $43.1 million  compared to $55.6 million for the year ended December 31,
2003. The difference is reflective of the timing of activity in the held for
sale pipeline as we had significant sales of these properties during the fourth
quarter of 2003; thus, the development costs were much higher for 2003. The pipeline
of held for sale projects under construction as of December 31, 2004 has
anticipated costs of $39.3 million.

•

We sold six merchant buildings in
2004, for a net after tax gain of $16.5 million as compared to four in 2003 for
a net after tax gain of $9.6 million.

Investing
Activities

Investing activities are
one of the primary uses of our liquidity. Development and acquisition activity
typically generates additional rental revenues and provides cash flows for
operational requirements. Highlights of significant cash uses are as follows:

•

Development costs increased to $145.6
million for the year ended December 31, 2004 from $129.2 million for the
same period in 2003. The increase reflects the overall improvement in the
development climate during 2004. We anticipate development volume to increase
in 2005 through new initiatives such as our 1,700 acre, mixed-use project
referred to as the Anson project and our National Development and Construction
group.

•

In the year ended December 31,
2004, we have significantly increased our costs associated with the acquisition
of land held for development. We acquired $116.7 million of land in 2004 as
compared to $32.9 million in 2003. The significant increase is primarily
attributable to the acquisition of over 260 acres of land at a cost of over $37
million in our Indianapolis market. This initial acquisition is part of our
1,700-acre, mixed-use Anson project, which we anticipate will be developed over
a 15-year period.


•

Recurring costs for tenant
improvements, lease

commissions

and building improvements have continued to
increase. Management anticipates that these costs will remain high as overall
portfolio occupancy continues to increase.

•

Sales of land and depreciated
property provided $178.3 million in net proceeds in 2004, compared to $167.6
million in 2003. Sales of non-strategic and older

properties

will continue to be utilized as part of our capital recycling program to fund
acquisitions and new development while improving the overall quality of our
investment portfolio.

Financing
Activities

We raised capital by
borrowing from banks, utilizing the public debt markets and issuing preferred
stock in 2004. In order to enhance our flexibility with respect to properties,
we have continued to replace secured debt with unsecured debt. Our low leverage
provides us with the opportunity to borrow funds at very attractive rates.
Highlights of significant financing activities are as follows:

•

In February, we received
approximately $145.0 million in net proceeds from the issuance of our Series K
preferred stock. These preferred shares were issued at a favorable dividend
yield of 6.5%. The Series K preferred shares issuance corresponded with the
redemption of $100.0 million of Series E preferred shares in January, which
carried an 8.25% dividend rate.

•

We took advantage of the low interest
rate environment in January when we issued $125.0 million of unsecured
debt at 3.35% with a four-year term. The net proceeds from this unsecured
offering were used to decrease the amounts outstanding under our unsecured line
of credit.

•

In February, we called for the
redemption of all the Series D convertible preferred shares as of March 16,
2004. The redemption price of each depository share of the Series D stock was
$25, whereas each depository share was convertible into .93677 shares of our
common stock.  Since the value of our
common stock was well in excess of the $26.68 strike price per share during the
redemption period, the vast majority of the Series D shareholders elected to
convert their shares into common stock. Prior to the redemption date, 5,242,635
Series D convertible preferred depositary shares were converted into 4,911,143
common shares, with the remaining 103,695 Series D convertible preferred
depositary shares redeemed for $2.6 million on March 16, 2004.

•

We paid $2.9 million in cash to a
group of warrant holders in exchange for the cancellation of their warrants in
March. The price paid represented the “in-the money” value of the warrants
based upon the difference between the exercise price of the warrants and the
price of the our common stock at the exercise date.

•

In August, we issued $250 million of
5.40% unsecured notes due in 2014. The notes were issued as part of an exchange
of securities for $100 million principal amount of our 6.95% unsecured debt.
The remaining cash proceeds were used to finance costs associated with the
offering and exchange of debt, and to reduce amounts outstanding under our
unsecured line of credit.

•

In November, we issued our Series L
preferred stock and received approximately $194 million in net proceeds.  These preferred shares were issued at a
dividend yield of 6.6%.  The proceeds
were used to reduce borrowings under our unsecured line of credit that had
partially increased as a result of the maturity and payment of $50 million of
medium term notes carrying an interest rate of 7.22%.

•

In December, we issued $250 million
of unsecured floating rate debt at 26 basis points over LIBOR. The debt matures
in two years but is callable after six months. 
The proceeds were used to pay off our credit line, which was not being
utilized at December 31, 2004.


Credit Ratings

We are currently assigned
investment grade corporate credit ratings on senior unsecured notes from Fitch
Ratings, Moody’s Investor Service and Standard and Poor’s Ratings Group.
Currently, Fitch and Standard and Poor’s have assigned a rating of BBB+ and
Moody’s Investors has assigned a rating of Baa1 to the senior notes.

We also received
investment grade credit ratings from the same rating agencies on our preferred
stock.  Fitch and Standard and Poor’s
have assigned a Preferred Stock rating of BBB and Moody’s Investors has assigned
a Preferred Stock rating of Baa2.

These senior notes and
Preferred Stock ratings could change based upon, among other things, our
results of operations and financial condition.

Financial Instruments

We are exposed to capital
market risk, such as changes in interest rates. In order to manage the
volatility relating to interest rate risk, we may enter into interest rate
hedging arrangements from time to time. We do not utilize derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We account for derivative
instruments under SFAS No. 133, “

Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended

(“SFAS
133”).

During the first quarter
of 2004, we funded a $65 million note receivable secured by a first mortgage on
a portfolio of office properties owned by a third party located in Atlanta,
Georgia. The note receivable had a maximum two-year term with an interest rate
of 5.5% for the first 6 months and 6.5% thereafter. In order to fund the note
receivable, we borrowed $65 million under a variable interest rate term loan.
The loan bears interest at the rate of LIBOR + 75 basis points, has a maturity
date of January 2005, and contains two six month renewal options. To hedge
our variable interest rate risk on the loan, we entered into two interest rate
swaps totaling $65 million that effectively fixed the rate at 2.184% through
maturity. The hedge accounting rules are being used for the swaps, which allow
for changes in market value of the swaps to be recorded through Other Comprehensive
Income (“OCI”) in equity versus earnings in the Statement of Operations. In the
third quarter of 2004, the $65 million note receivable was repaid in connection
with our acquisition of the properties that secured the note. However, our $65
million note payable and related interest swaps were not retired. As of December 31,
2004, the fair value of the hedge was $51,000, which was reflected through an
increase in other assets and OCI on our balance sheet.

In June 2004, we
simultaneously entered into three forward-starting interest rate swaps
aggregating $144.3 million, which effectively fixed the rate on financing
expected in 2004 at 5.346%, plus our credit spread over the swap rate. The
swaps qualified for hedge accounting under SFAS 133; therefore, changes in the
fair value were recorded in OCI. In August 2004, we settled these three
swaps when we issued $250.0 million of unsecured notes with an effective
interest rate of 6.33%, due in 2014. We paid $6.85 million to unwind the swaps,
which will be amortized from OCI into interest expense over the life of the new
6.33% notes.

In December 2002, we
simultaneously entered into two $50 million forward-starting interest rate
swaps as a hedge to effectively fix the rate on unsecured debt financings
expected in 2003. Then again in February 2003, we simultaneously entered
into two additional $25 million forward-starting interest rate swaps as a hedge
to effectively fix the rate on unsecured debt financings expected in 2003. All
four swaps qualified for hedge accounting under SFAS 133; therefore, changes in
fair value were recorded in other comprehensive income. In July 2003, we
terminated the swaps for a net gain of $643,000, which is included in other
revenue in the Statements of Operations. The swaps were terminated because our
capital needs were met through the issuance of the Series J Preferred Stock in
lieu of the previously contemplated issuance of debt.


During the year ended December 31,
2002, we recorded a $1.4 million gain associated with an interest rate contract
that did not qualify for hedge accounting. 
The contract expired on December 30, 2002.

In May 2003, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 150,

Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity

(“SFAS 150”). SFAS
150 establishes standards for classifying and measuring as liabilities certain
financial instruments that embody obligations of the issuer and have characteristics
of both liabilities and equity. SFAS 150 is effective for all financial
instruments created or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise is effective July 1,
2003. We include the operations of one joint venture in our consolidated
financial statements. This joint venture is partially owned by unaffiliated
parties that have noncontrolling interests. SFAS 150 requires the disclosure of
the estimated settlement value of these noncontrolling interests. As of December 31,
2004, the estimated settlement value of the noncontrolling interest in this
consolidated joint venture was approximately $1.0 million as compared to the
minority interest asset recorded on our books for this joint venture of
$142,000.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

Investments
in Unconsolidated Companies

We have equity interests
ranging from 10% – 64% in unconsolidated companies that own and operate rental
properties and hold land for development. The equity method of accounting is
used for these investments in which we have the ability to exercise significant
influence, but not control, over operating and financial policies. As a result,
the assets and liabilities of these joint ventures are not included on our
balance sheet.

Our investment in
unconsolidated companies represents less than 5% of our total assets as of December 31,
2004. These investments provide several benefits to us, including increased
market share, tenant and property diversification and an additional source of
capital to fund real estate projects.

The following tables
presents summarized financial information for unconsolidated companies for the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands, except percentages):

Off
Balance Sheet Arrangements

We do not have any
relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as “special
purpose entities,” which are generally established for the purpose of
facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other specific purposes.

Contractual Obligations

As of December 31,
2004, we are subject to certain contractual payment obligations as described in
the table below (in thousands):


(1)   Our
long-term debt consists of both secured and unsecured debt and includes both principal
and interest. Interest expense for variable rate debt was calculated using the
interest rate at December 31, 2004.

(2)   Our
unsecured line of credit matures in 2007. We were not using our line of credit
at December 31, 2004.

(3)   Our
share of unconsolidated mortgage debt includes both principal and interest.
Interest expense for variable rate debt was calculated using the interest rate
at December 31, 2004.

(4)   Represents
estimated remaining costs on the completion of held-for-rental, held-for-sale
and third-party construction projects.

(5)   These
land acquisitions are subject to the completion of due diligence requirements,
resolution of certain contingencies and completion of certain contingencies and
completion of customary closing conditions. If we were to terminate these
contracts, we would forfeit our total escrow amount of $1,485,000 and would
have no further contractual obligations.

(6)   Service
contracts defined as those which cover periods greater than one year and are
not cancelable without cause by either party.

(7)   Represents  the contracted purchase price of a building.

Related
Party Transactions

We provide property
management, leasing, construction and other tenant related services to
properties in which former executive officers and current directors have
ownership interests. We received fees totaling approximately $693,000, $1.2
million, and $1.4 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, for services
provided to these properties. The fees we charged for such services are equivalent
to those charged to unrelated third-party owners for similar services.  We had an option to acquire the executive
officers’ interests in these properties. Two of these properties, the Bank One
Towers office buildings in Cincinnati, Ohio, were acquired in August 2003
at a price of $45.5 million. The terms of this acquisition were reviewed and
approved by the independent members of our Board of Directors. The options on
the remaining properties expired in October 2003, as the independent
members of our Board of Directors determined that it was not in our best
interest to exercise the options.

We provide property
management, leasing, construction and other tenant related services to
unconsolidated companies in which we have an equity interest. For each of the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, we received management fees
of $4.9 million from these unconsolidated companies. In addition, for each of
the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, we
received from these entities leasing fees of $2.6 million, $2.3 million and
$2.5 million and construction and development fees of $1.5 million, $1.4
million and $4.5 million. These fees were charged at market rates and we
eliminated our ownership percentage of these fees in the consolidated financial
statements.

In 2002, we received
lease termination fees totaling $7.7 million from a tenant that is a subsidiary
of Progress Energy, Inc. At that time, William Cavanaugh III was President and
Chief Executive Officer of Progress Energy, Inc. and a member of our Board of
Directors. Our independent directors approved the transaction and management
believes that the amount received approximates a value that would have been
charged to tenants with similar lease terms and commitments.

Commitments and Contingencies

In 1998 and 1999, certain
members of management and the Board of Directors purchased $69 million of
common stock in connection with an Executive and Senior Officer Stock Purchase
Plan. The purchases were financed by five-year personal loans at market
interest rates from financial institutions. As of


December 31, 2004,
the outstanding balance on these loans was approximately $1.6 million as some
participants have extended their involvement in the program beyond the original
five years. These loans were secured by common shares with a fair market value
of approximately $2.5 million purchased through this program and owned by the
remaining plan participants at December 31, 2004. As a condition of the
financing agreement with the financial institution, we guaranteed repayment of
principal, interest and other obligations for each participant, but are fully
indemnified by the participants. In the opinion of management, it is not
probable that we will be required to satisfy these guarantees.

In October 2000, we
sold or contributed industrial properties and undeveloped land with a fair
value of $487 million to a joint venture (Dugan Realty LLC) in which we have a
50% interest and recognized a net gain of $35.2 million. This transaction
expanded an existing joint venture with an institutional real estate investor.
As a result of the total transactions, we received $363.9 million of proceeds.
The joint venture partially financed this transaction with $350 million of
secured mortgage debt, the repayment of which we directly or indirectly
guaranteed. The guarantee associated with $260 million of such debt expired in December 2003
without us being required to satisfy the guarantee. The remaining $90 million
of such debt is still guaranteed by us. In connection with this transaction,
the joint venture partners were given an option to put up to a $50 million
interest in the joint venture to us in exchange for our common stock or cash
(at our option), subject to certain timing and other restrictions. As a result
of this put option, we deferred $10.2 million of gain on sale of depreciated
property and recorded a $50 million liability.

We have guaranteed the
repayment of $12.3 million of economic development bonds issued by various
municipalities in connection with certain commercial developments. We will be
required to make payments under our guarantees to the extent that incremental
taxes from specified developments are not sufficient to pay the bond debt
service. Management does not believe that it is probable that we will be
required to make any significant payments in satisfaction of these guarantees.

We have also guaranteed
the repayment of a $2 million mortgage loan encumbering the real estate of one
of our unconsolidated joint ventures. Management believes that the value of the
real estate exceeds the loan balance and that we will not be required to
satisfy this guarantee.

We evaluated our
guarantees under FASB Interpretation 45 (“FIN 45”) in order to determine the
amount of potential liability we may incur resulting from the guarantees. For
this evaluation we used discounted cash flow projections for expected
incremental financing to be generated from anticipated development. Based upon
these projections, no liability was recorded at December 31, 2004.

We have entered into
agreements, subject to the completion of due diligence requirements, resolution
of certain contingencies and completion of customary closing conditions, for
the future acquisition of land totaling $43.8 million. We have also entered
into an agreement to acquire a single building for $8.0 million, which is
expected to close in 2005.

We renewed all of our
major insurance policies in 2004. These policies include coverage for acts of
terrorism for our properties. We believe that this insurance provides adequate
coverage against normal insurance risks and that any loss experienced would not
have a significant impact on our liquidity, financial position, or results of
operations.

We are subject to various
legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of
business.  In the opinion of management,
the amount of any ultimate liability with respect to these actions will not
materially affect our consolidated financial statements or results of
operations.


Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004,
FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (R),

Share-Based
Payment,

which is a revision of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock Based Compensation

,
and is effective July 2005

.

We
are currently evaluating the impact on our financial position and results of
operations.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About
Market Risks

We are exposed to
interest rate changes primarily as a result of our line of credit and long-term
debt borrowings. Our interest rate risk management objective is to limit the
impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower overall
borrowing costs. To achieve our objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed rates
and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate
swaps, caps and treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a
related financial instrument. We do not enter into derivative or interest rate
transactions for speculative purposes.

Our interest rate risk is
monitored using a variety of techniques. The table below presents the principal
amounts (in thousands) of the expected annual maturities, weighted average
interest rates for the average debt outstanding in the specified period, fair
values and other terms required to evaluate the expected cash flows and
sensitivity to interest rate changes.

As the table incorporates
only those exposures that exist as of December 31, 2004, it does not
consider those exposures or positions that could arise after that date. As a
result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate
fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our
hedging strategies at that time, and interest rates.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements
and supplementary data are included under Item 15 of this Report.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures

We conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure
controls and procedures” as of the end of the period covered by this Annual
Report. The controls evaluation was done under the supervision and with the
participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our
Chief Financial Officer.


Attached as exhibits to
this Annual Report are certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, which are required in accordance with Rule 13a-14 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This Disclosure Controls and Procedures section includes
the information concerning the controls evaluation referred to in the
certifications and it should be read in conjunction with the certifications for
a more complete understanding of the topics presented.

Disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15 and 15d-15f under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) are controls and other procedures that are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports
filed under the Exchange Act, such as this Annual Report, is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s
rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure
that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management,
including the Company’s principal executive and principal financial officers,
as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Based on the disclosure
controls and procedures evaluation referenced above, our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that as of the end of the
period covered by this Annual Report, our disclosure controls and procedures
were effective.

Management’s annual
report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report
of our registered public accounting firm are included in Item 15 of Part IV
under the headings “Management’s Report on Internal Control” and “Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,” respectively, and are
incorporated herein by reference.

There were no changes in
our internal controls over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31,
2004, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.

Item 9B.
Other Information

None

PART
III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrant

Information required by
this item is incorporated by reference to our 
2005 proxy statement (the “2005 Proxy Statement”) for our Annual Meeting
of Shareholders to be held on April 27, 2005. Certain information with
respect to our executive officers required by this item is included in the
discussion entitled “Executive Officer of the Registrant” after Item 4 of Part
I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our Code of Conduct and our
Corporate Governance Guidelines are available in the investor
information/corporate governance section of our website at
www.dukerealty.com. A copy of these documents may also be obtained without
charge by writing to Duke Realty Corporation, 600 East 96

th

Street,
Suite 100, Indianapolis, Indiana 46240, Attention: Investor Relations.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Information with respect
to this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2005 Proxy Statement.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Information with respect
to this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2005 Proxy Statement.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions

Information with respect
to this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2005 Proxy Statement.

Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Information with respect
to this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2005 Proxy Statement.

Part IV

Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

The
following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K:

1.

Consolidated
Financial Statements

The
following Consolidated Financial Statements, together with the Management’s
Report on Internal Control, the Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm-Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule III
and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-Management’s
Assessment of the Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
and the Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting, are listed
below:

Management’s Report on Internal Control

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting

Firm-Financial Statements and Financial
Statement Schedule III

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-Management’s

Assessment of the Effectiveness of Internal
Control over Financial

Reporting and the Effectiveness of Internal
Control over Financial Reporting

Consolidated Balance Sheets, December 31, 2004 and 2003

Consolidated Statements of Operations, Years Ended December 31,

2004, 2003 and 2002

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Years Ended December 31, 2004,

and 2002

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity, Years Ended December 31,

2004, 2003 and 2002

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

2.

Consolidated
Financial Statement Schedules

Schedule III
– Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

3.

Exhibits

The
following exhibits are filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated herein by
reference to the listed document previously filed with the SEC. Previously
unfiled documents are noted with an asterisk (*).






# Represents management contract
or compensatory plan or arrangement.

We will furnish to any
security holder, upon written request, copies of any exhibit incorporated by
reference, for a fee of 15 cents per page, to cover the costs of furnishing the
exhibits. Written requests should include a representation that the person
making the request was the beneficial owner of securities entitled to vote at
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

(b)

Exhibits

The exhibits required to
be filed with this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K or listed
under “Exhibits” in Part IV, Item 14(a)(3) of Form 10-K, which are incorporated
herein by reference.

(c)

Financial
Statement Schedule

The Financial Statement Schedule required
to be filed with this Form 10-K is listed under “Consolidated Financial
Statement Schedules” in Part IV, Item 14(a)(2) of this Form 10-K, and is
incorporated herein by reference.


Management’s Report on Internal Control

We, as management of Duke
Realty Corporation and its subsidiaries (“Duke”), are responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting
(as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended). Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by,
or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by
the company’s board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and
procedure that:

•

Pertain
to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets of the company;

•

Provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and

•

Provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Management has evaluated
the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2004, based on the control criteria established in a report entitled Internal
Control – Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on such evaluation, we
have concluded that, as of December 31, 2004, our internal control over
financial reporting is effective based on these criteria.

The independent
registered public accounting firm of KPMG LLP, as auditors of Duke’s
consolidated financial statements, has issued an attestation report on
management’s assessment of Duke’s internal control over financial reporting.


Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Shareholders and
Directors of

Duke Realty Corporation:

We have audited the
consolidated balance sheets of Duke Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries (the “Company”)
as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements
of operations, cash flows and shareholders’ equity for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2004. In connection with our audits
of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial
statement schedule III. These consolidated financial statements and the
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and the financial statement schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Duke Realty Corporation and
Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule III,
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein.

We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the effectiveness of Duke Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries’
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based
on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and
our report dated February 28, 2005, expressed an unqualified opinion on
management’s assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control
over financial reporting.

KPMG LLP

Indianapolis,
Indiana

February 28, 2005


Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Shareholders and
Directors of

Duke Realty Corporation:

We have audited
management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Control that Duke Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries (the “Company”)
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). Duke Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries’ management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assessment and an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion,
management’s assessment that Duke Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established
in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by COSO. Also, in our opinion,
Duke Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004,
based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued
by COSO.

We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Duke Realty Corporation and
Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and shareholders’ equity for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004 and
related financial statement schedule III, and our report dated February 28,
2005, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements and related financial statement schedule III.

KPMG LLP

Indianapolis,
Indiana

February 28, 2005


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated Balance Sheets

As of December 31,

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated

Statements of Operations

For the Years Ended December 31

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Years Ended December 31

(in thousands)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated

Financial
Statements.


DUKE REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Consolidated

Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

(in thousands, except per share data)

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated

Financial
Statements.


DUKE
REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements

(1)

The
Company

Our rental operations are conducted through
Duke Realty Limited Partnership (“DRLP”). We owned approximately 91.3% of the
common partnership interests of DRLP (“Units”) at December 31, 2004. The
remaining Units in DRLP are redeemable for shares of our common stock. We
conduct Service Operations through Duke Realty Services Limited Partnership (“DRSLP”),
in which we are the sole general partner. We also conduct Service Operations
through Duke Construction Limited Partnership (“DCLP”), which is effectively
100% owned by DRLP. The consolidated financial statements include our accounts
and our majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries.

(2)

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles
of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include
our accounts and our controlled subsidiaries. The equity interests in these
controlled subsidiaries not owned by us are reflected as minority interests in
the consolidated financial statements. All significant intercompany balances
and transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements.
Investments in entities that we do not control through majority voting interest
or where the other owner has substantial participating rights are not
consolidated and are reflected as investments in unconsolidated companies under
the equity method of reporting.

Reclassifications

Certain 2003 and 2002 balances have been
reclassified to conform to the 2004 presentation.

Real
Estate Investments

Rental real property, including land, land
improvements, buildings and building improvements, are included in real estate
investments and are generally stated at cost. Buildings and land improvements
are depreciated on the straight-line method over their estimated life not to
exceed 40 and 15 years, respectively, and tenant improvement costs are
depreciated using the straight-line method over the term of the related lease.

Direct and certain indirect costs clearly
associated and incremental to the development, construction, leasing or
expansion of real estate investments are capitalized as a cost of the property.
In addition, all leasing commissions paid to third parties for new leases or
lease renewals are capitalized. We capitalize a portion of our indirect costs
associated with our construction/development and leasing efforts. In assessing
the amount of direct and indirect costs to be capitalized, allocations are made
based on estimates of the actual amount of time spent in each activity. The
capitalized cost pool does not include any costs allocable to its executive
officers. Additionally, we do not capitalize any costs attributable to downtime
or to unsuccessful projects of leasing activities.

Within our Rental Operations, direct and
indirect costs are capitalized under the guidelines of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 67,

Accounting
for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects

(“SFAS
67”)

,

and interest costs are
capitalized under the guidelines of SFAS No. 34,

Capitalization of Interest Cost

(“SFAS 34”)

.

The Company capitalizes these project
costs associated with the initial construction of a property up to the time the
property is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. In addition,
the Company capitalizes costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, and
utilities, that have been


allocated to vacant space based on the square
footage of the portion of the building not held available for immediate
occupancy during the extended lease-up periods after construction of the
building shell has been completed if costs are being incurred to ready the
vacant space for its intended use. If costs and activities incurred to ready
the vacant space cease, then cost capitalization is also discontinued until
such activities are resumed. Once necessary work has been completed on a vacant
space, project costs are no longer capitalized. We cease capitalization of all project
costs on extended lease-up periods after the shorter of a one-year period after
the completion of the building shell or when the property attains 90%
occupancy. Tenant improvement costs are generally not incurred on vacant space
until a lease is signed and specific improvements are identified in the lease.

Construction in process and land held for
development are included in real estate investments and are stated at cost.
Real estate investments also include our equity interests in unconsolidated joint
ventures that own and operate rental properties and hold land for development.
We analyze our investments in joint ventures under Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 46(R),

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,

to determine if
the joint venture is considered a variable interest entity and would require
consolidation. The equity method of accounting is used for these investments in
which we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control,
over operating and financial policies. Any difference between the carrying
amount of these investments and the underlying equity in net assets is
amortized to equity in earnings of unconsolidated companies over the
depreciable life of the property, generally 40 years.

We adopted SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long
Lived Assets

(“SFAS 144”), in 2002. 
In accordance with this statement, properties held for rental are
individually evaluated for impairment when conditions exist which may indicate
that it is probable that the sum of expected future cash flows (on an
undiscounted basis) from a rental property over its anticipated holding period
is less than its historical net cost basis. Upon determination that a permanent
impairment has occurred, a loss is recorded to reduce the net book value of
that property to its fair market value. Real properties to be disposed of are
reported at the lower of net historical cost basis or the estimated fair market
value, less the estimated costs to sell. Once a property is designated as held
for disposal, no further depreciation expense is recorded.

In accordance with SFAS No. 141,

Business Combinations

(“SFAS 141”), we
allocate the purchase price of acquired properties to net tangible and
identified intangible assets based on their respective fair values. The
allocation to tangible assets (buildings, tenant improvements and land) is
based upon management’s determination of the value of the property as if it
were vacant using discounted cash flow models similar to those used by
independent appraisers. Factors considered by management include an estimate of
carrying costs during the expected lease-up periods considering current market
conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. The remaining purchase price is
allocated among three categories of intangible assets consisting of the above
or below market component of in-place leases, the value of in-place leases and
the value of customer relationships.

The value allocable to the above or below
market component of an acquired in-place lease is determined based upon the
present value (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with
the acquired leases) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to
be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining term and (ii) management’s
estimate of the amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the
remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated to above or below market
leases are included in deferred leasing and other costs in the balance sheet
and are amortized to rental income over the remaining terms of the respective
leases.


The total amount of intangible assets is
further allocated to in-place lease values and to customer relationship values
based upon management’s assessment of their respective values. These intangible
assets are included in deferred leasing and other costs in the balance sheet
and are depreciated over the remaining term of the existing lease, or the
anticipated life of the customer relationship, as applicable.

Cash
Equivalents

Highly liquid investments with a maturity of
three months or less when purchased are classified as cash equivalents.

Valuation
of Receivables

We reserve
the entire receivable balance, including straight-line rent, of any tenant with
an amount outstanding over 90 days. Straight-line rent receivables for any
tenant with long-term risk, regardless of the status of rent receivables, are
reviewed and reserved as necessary.

Deferred
Costs

Costs incurred in connection with obtaining
financing are amortized to interest expense on the straight-line method, which
approximates a constant spread over the term of the related loan. All direct
and indirect costs, including estimated internal costs, associated with the
leasing of real estate investments owned by us are capitalized and amortized
over the term of the related lease. Unamortized costs are charged to expense
upon the early termination of the lease or upon early payment of the financing.

Revenues

Rental Operations

Rental income from leases with scheduled
rental increases during their terms is recognized on a straight-line basis.

Service Operations

Management fees are based on a percentage of
rental receipts of properties managed and are recognized as the rental receipts
are collected. Maintenance fees are based upon established hourly rates and are
recognized as the services are performed. Construction management and
development fees represent fee based third party contracts and are recognized
as earned based on the terms of the contract, which approximates the percentage
of completion method.

We recognize income on construction contracts
where we serve as a general contractor on the percentage of completion method.
Using this method, profits are recorded based on our estimates of the
percentage of completion of individual contracts, commencing when the work
performed under the contracts reach a point where the final costs can be
estimated with reasonable accuracy. The percentage of completion estimates are
based on a comparison of the contract expenditures incurred to the estimated
final costs. Changes in job performance, job conditions and estimated
profitability may result in revisions to costs and income and are recognized in
the period in which the revisions are determined.


Property Sales

Gains from sales of depreciated property are
recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 66,

Accounting
for Sales of Real Estate

(“SFAS 66”), and are included in earnings
from sales of land and depreciable property dispositions, net of any impairment
adjustments, in the Statement of Operations if identified as held-for-sale
prior to adoption of SFAS 144 and in discontinued operations if identified as
held-for-sale after adoption of SFAS 144.

Gains or losses to our sale of property that
were developed with the intent to sell and not for long-term rental are
recognized in accordance with SFAS 66 and are included in construction
management and development activity income in the Statement of Operations.

Net Income
Per Common Share

Basic net income per common share is computed
by dividing net income available for common shares by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per
common share is computed by dividing the sum of net income available for common
shareholders and the minority interest in earnings allocable to Units not owned
by us, by the sum of the weighted average number of common shares and minority
Units outstanding, including any dilutive potential common shares for the
period.

The following table reconciles the components
of basic and diluted net income per common share (in thousands):

(1) We called for the redemption of the
Series D shares as of March 16, 2004. Prior to the redemption date, nearly
5.3 million Series D shares were converted to 4.9 million common shares. These
shares represent the weighted effect, assuming the Series D shares had been
converted on January 1, 2004.

The Series D Convertible Preferred Stock was
anti-dilutive for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002; therefore,
no conversion to common shares was included in weighted average dilutive
potential common shares.

A joint venture partner in one of our
unconsolidated companies has the option to convert a portion of its ownership
to our common shares. The effect of this option on earnings per share was
anti-dilutive for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

Federal
Income Taxes

We have elected to be taxed as a real estate
investment trust (“REIT”) under the Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a
REIT, we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements,
including a requirement to distribute at least 90% of our adjusted taxable
income to our stockholders. Management intends to continue to adhere to these requirements
and to maintain our REIT status. As a REIT, we are entitled to a tax


deduction for some or all of the dividends we
pay to shareholders. Accordingly, we generally will not be subject to federal
income taxes as long as we distribute an amount equal to or in excess of our
taxable income currently to stockholders. A REIT generally is subject to
federal income taxes on any taxable income that is not currently distributed to
its shareholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will
be subject to federal income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for
four subsequent taxable years.

REIT qualification reduces, but does not
eliminate, the amount of state and local taxes we pay. In addition, our
financial statements include the operations of taxable corporate subsidiaries
that are not entitled to a dividends paid deduction and are subject to
corporate federal, state and local income taxes. As a REIT, we may also be
subject to certain federal excise taxes if we engage in certain types of
transactions.

The following table reconciles our net income
to taxable income before the dividends paid deduction for the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002 (in thousands):

Our dividends paid deduction is summarized
below (in thousands):

A summary of the tax characterization of the
dividends paid for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002
follows:

We recorded federal and state income taxes of
$5.2 million, $4.0 million and $12.0 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively,
which were primarily attributable to the earnings of our taxable REIT
subsidiaries. The taxable REIT subsidiaries had no significant deferred income
tax items.

Stock
Based Compensation

We apply the recognition and measurement
provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and
related Interpretations in accounting, for all stock based awards issued prior
to 2002.


Accordingly, for stock options granted prior
to 2002, no compensation expense is reflected in net income as all options
granted had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying
common stock on the date of the grant.

In 2002, we prospectively adopted the fair
value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation

(“SFAS 123”), for all awards granted
after January 1, 2002.

Awards under our stock based employee
compensation plans generally vest over five years at 20% per year. Therefore,
the expense related to these plans is less than that which would have been
recognized if the fair value method had been applied to all awards since the
original effective date of SFAS 123. The following table illustrates the effect
on net income and earnings per share if the fair value method had been applied
to all outstanding and unvested awards in each period (in thousands, except per
share amounts).

Derivative Financial Instruments

We periodically enter into certain interest
rate protection agreements to effectively convert or cap floating rate debt to
a fixed rate, and to hedge anticipated future financing transactions. Net amounts
paid or received under these agreements are recognized as an adjustment to the
interest expense of the corresponding debt. We do not utilize derivative
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

,
as amended (“SFAS 133”), requires that all derivative instruments be recorded
on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities at their fair value. Derivatives
that are not hedges must be adjusted to fair value through the recording of
income or expense. If a derivative qualifies as a hedge, the changes in fair
value of the effective portion of the hedge are recognized in other
comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion of the derivative’s change
in fair value is recognized in earnings. We estimate the fair value of
derivative instruments using standard market conventions and techniques such as
discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and termination cost at
each balance sheet date.

Use Of
Estimates

The preparation of the financial statements
requires management to make a number of estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amount of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.


(3)

Related
Party Transactions

We provide property management, leasing,
construction and other tenant related services to properties in which former
executive officers and current directors have ownership interests. We received
fees totaling approximately $693,000, $1.2 million, and $1.4 million in 2004,
2003 and 2002, respectively, for services provided to these properties. The
fees we charged for such services are equivalent to those charged to unrelated
third-party owners for similar services. We had an option to acquire the
executive officers’ interests in these properties. Two of these properties, the
Bank One Towers office buildings in Cincinnati, Ohio, were acquired in August 2003
at a price of $45.5 million. The terms of this acquisition were reviewed and
approved by the independent members of our Board of Directors. The options on
the remaining properties expired in October 2003, as the independent
members of our Board of Directors determined that it was not in our best
interests to exercise the options.

We provide property management, leasing,
construction and other tenant related services to unconsolidated companies in
which we have an equity interest. For each of the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, we received management fees of $4.9 million from these
unconsolidated companies. In addition, for each of the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, we received from these entities leasing fees
of $2.6 million, $2.3 million and $2.5 million and construction and development
fees of $1.5 million, $1.4 million and $4.5 million. These fees were charged at
market rates and we eliminated our ownership percentage of these fees in the
consolidated financial statements.

In 2002, we received lease termination fees
totaling $7.7 million from a tenant that is a subsidiary of Progress Energy,
Inc. At that time, William Cavanaugh III was President and Chief Executive
Officer of Progress Energy, Inc. and a member of our Board of Directors. Our
independent directors approved the transaction and management believes that the
amount received approximates a value that would have been charged to tenants
with similar lease terms and commitments.

(4)

Investments
in Unconsolidated Companies

We have equity interests ranging from 10% -
64% in unconsolidated joint ventures that own and operate rental properties and
hold land for development.

Combined summarized financial information for
the unconsolidated companies as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, are as follows (in
thousands):


Our share of
the scheduled payments of long term debt for the unconsolidated joint ventures
for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2004, are
as follows (in thousands):

The
following significant transactions

involving the unconsolidated companies have occurred
over the past three years:

During 2003,
we purchased our partners’ interests in three separate joint ventures. We had a
50% interest in each of these ventures prior to their acquisition. We also sold
our 50% interest in two separate joint ventures to our partners. In addition,
we contributed cash and undeveloped land to a joint venture that owns
undeveloped land and an office building in return for a 50% interest.

In 2002, we recognized a gain of $1.8 million
on the sale of a building that was developed for sale by a joint venture in
which we owned a 50% interest. The gain was included in equity in earnings in
the Statement of Operations. We also bought out our other partners’ interest in
six separate joint ventures.  We had a
50% interest in each of these ventures prior to such acquisitions.

(5)

Real
Estate Investments

We have classified operations of 86 buildings
as discontinued operations as of December 31, 2004. These 86 buildings
consist of 69 industrial, 12 office and five retail properties. As a result, we
classified net income, net of minority interest, of $1.6 million, $6.3 million
and $10.7 million as net income from discontinued operations for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Forty-one of these
properties were sold during 2004, 42 properties were sold during 2003, two
properties were sold during 2002 and one operating property is classified as
held-for-sale at December 31, 2004. The gains on disposal of these
properties, net of impairment adjustment and minority interest, of $23.9
million, $11.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively, are also reported in discontinued operations. For the year ended December 31,
2002, a $4.5 million loss on disposal of properties, net of impairment
adjustment and minority interest, is reported in discontinued operations due to
impairment charges of $7.7 million recorded on three properties in 2002 that
were later sold in 2003 and 2004.

The following table illustrates the major
classes of assets and operations affected by the 86 buildings identified as
discontinued operations at December 31, 2004 (in thousands):


We allocate interest expense to discontinued
operations as permitted under EITF 87-24,

“Allocation
of Interest to Discontinued Operations,”

and have included such
interest expense in computing net income from discontinued operations. Interest
expense allocable to discontinued operations includes interest on the debt for
the secured properties and an allocable share of our consolidated unsecured
interest expense for unencumbered properties. The allocation of unsecured
interest expense to discontinued operations was based upon the Gross Book Value
of the discontinued operations unencumbered population as it related to our
entire unencumbered population.

At December 31, 2004, we had one
industrial property comprising approximately 81,000 square feet classified as
held-for-sale. The net book value of the property held-for-sale at December 31,
2004, was approximately $3.4 million.

In 2004 we recorded $424,000 of impairment
adjustments for three land parcels that were held-for-sale. We also recorded a
$180,000 impairment adjustment for the industrial building classified as
held-for-sale at December 31, 2004. 
These adjustments reflect the write-down of the carrying values of the
properties to their projected sales prices, less selling expenses, once it
became probable that the properties would be sold. The industrial building is
projected to sell in the first quarter of 2005. 
Each of the land parcel properties were later sold in 2004.

In 2003 we recorded $1.1 million of
impairment adjustments for one industrial building and three land parcels that
were held-for-sale. These adjustments reflect the write-down of the carrying
values of the properties to their projected sales prices, less selling
expenses, once it became probable that the properties would be sold. Each of
these properties was later sold in 2003.

We recorded a $9.4 million impairment
adjustment for six properties in 2002. This total consisted of a $7.7 million
adjustment for three industrial properties and a $1.7 million adjustment for
three office properties. The properties were identified as impaired upon the
comparison of their projected undiscounted cash flows to their carrying values.
The impairment adjustment reflects the write-down of the carrying values of the


properties to their estimated fair market
values. In estimating fair market value, management considers valuation factors
used by independent appraisers, including the sales of comparable properties,
replacement cost and the capitalization of future expected net operating
income.

(6)

Indebtedness

Indebtedness at December 31 consists of
the following (in thousands):

The fair value of our indebtedness as of December 31,
2004, was $2.7 billion.

As of December 31, 2004, the $203.1
million of secured debt was collateralized by rental properties with a carrying
value of $464.6 million and by letters of credit in the amount of $14 million.

We had one unsecured line of credit available
at December 31, 2004, described as follows (in thousands):

The stated interest rate under the line is
LIBOR plus 60 basis points. However, the facility provides us with an option to
obtain borrowings from financial institutions that participate in the line, at
rates lower than the stated interest rate, subject to certain restrictions. At December 31,
2004, we were not using this facility.

The line of credit also contains financial
covenants that require us to meet defined levels of performance. As of December 31,
2004, we are in compliance with all covenants and expect to remain in
compliance for the foreseeable future.

In January 2004, we issued $125 million
of four-year unsecured debt at an effective interest rate of 3.35%

In August 2004, we issued $250 million
of 5.40% unsecured notes due in 2014. The notes were issued as part of an
exchange of securities for $100 million principal amount of our 6.95% unsecured
debt due August 2004. The remaining cash proceeds were used to fund costs
associated with the offering and exchange of debt, and to reduce amounts
outstanding under our unsecured line of credit.

In December 2004, we issued $250.0
million of unsecured floating rate debt at 26 basis points over LIBOR.  The debt matures in 2006, but is callable by
us after six months.


At December 31, 2004, the scheduled
amortization and maturities of all indebtedness for the next five years and
thereafter were as follows  (in
thousands):

The amount of interest paid in 2004, 2003 and
2002 was $136.2 million, $130.1 million and $125.9 million, respectively. The
amount of interest capitalized in 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $6.0 million, $6.7
million and $13.5 million, respectively.

(7)

Segment
Reporting

We are engaged in four operating segments,
the first three of which consist of the ownership and rental of office,
industrial and retail real estate investments (collectively, “Rental Operations”).
The fourth segment consists of our build-to-suit for sale operations and the
providing of various real estate services such as property management,
maintenance, leasing, development and construction management to third-party
property owners and joint ventures (“Service Operations”). Our reportable
segments offer different products or services and are managed separately
because each requires different operating strategies and management expertise.
There are no material intersegment sales or transfers.

Non-segment revenue consists mainly of equity
in earnings of unconsolidated companies. Segment FFO information is calculated
by subtracting operating expenses attributable to the applicable segment from
segment revenues. Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including
cash, deferred financing costs and investments in unconsolidated companies.
Interest expense and other non-property specific revenues and expenses are not
allocated to individual segments in determining our performance measure.

We assess and measure segment operating
results based upon an industry performance measure referred to as Funds From
Operations (“FFO”), which management believes is a useful indicator of our
operating performance. FFO is used by industry analysts and investors as a
supplemental operating performance measure of an equity real estate investment
trust (“REIT”). FFO is calculated in accordance with the definition that was adopted
by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment
Trusts (“NAREIT”). FFO, as defined by NAREIT, represents net income (loss)
determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America (“GAAP”), excluding extraordinary items as defined
under GAAP and gains or losses from sales of previously depreciated operating
real estate assets, plus certain non-cash items such as real estate asset
depreciation and amortization, and after similar adjustments for unconsolidated
partnerships and joint ventures.

The revenues and FFO for each of the
reportable segments for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
and the assets of each reportable segment as of December 31, 2004 and 2003
are summarized as follows (in thousands):



In addition to revenues and FFO, we also
review our recurring capital expenditures in measuring the performance of our
individual Rental Operations segments. These recurring capital expenditures
consist of tenant improvements, leasing commissions and building improvements.
We review these expenditures to determine the costs associated with re-leasing
vacant space and maintaining the condition of our properties. Our recurring
capital expenditures by segment are summarized as follows for the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively (in thousands):

(8)

Leasing
Activity

Future minimum rents due to us under
non-cancelable operating leases at December 31, 2004, are as follows (in
thousands):

In addition to minimum rents, certain leases
require reimbursements of specified operating expenses that amounted to $137.9
million, $130.3 million, and $121.0 million for the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

(9)

Employee
Benefit Plans

We maintain a 401(k) plan for full-time
employees.  We make matching contributions
up to an amount equal to three percent of the employee’s salary and may also
make annual discretionary contributions. The total expense  recognized for this plan was $1.9 million,
$1.6 million and $1.7 million for the years ended 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

We make contributions to a contributory
health and welfare plan as necessary to fund claims not covered by employee
contributions. The total expense we recognized related to this plan was $7.2
million, $6.4 million and $5.4 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
These expense amounts include estimates based upon the historical experience of
claims incurred but not reported as of year-end.

(10)

Shareholders’
Equity

We periodically access the public equity
markets to fund the development and acquisition of additional rental properties
or to pay down debt. The proceeds of these offerings are contributed to DRLP in
exchange for an additional interest in DRLP.

The following series of preferred stock were
outstanding as of December 31, 2004 (in thousands, except percentages):


All series of preferred shares require
cumulative distributions and have no stated maturity date (although we may
redeem them on or following their optional redemption dates).

The Series B,
Series I, Series J, Series K and Series L Preferred Stock may be redeemed only
at our option, in whole or in part.

We issued $150 million of Series K Preferred
Shares in February 2004 at a dividend rate of 6.50% and $200 million of
Series L Preferred Shares in November 2004 at a dividend rate of 6.60%.

The dividend rate on the Series B Preferred
shares increases to 9.99% after September 12, 2012. We repurchased 355,000
shares of the Series B Preferred shares in September 2002. The repurchase
transaction was initiated by a group of Series B Preferred shareholders who
voluntarily approached us with an opportunity for us to buy back these shares
before their earliest stated redemption date.

We called for the redemption of our Series D
Convertible Preferred Shares as of March 16, 2004. Prior to the redemption
date, 5,242,635 Series D Convertible Preferred Shares were converted into
4,911,143 Common Shares. The remaining 103,695 Series D Convertible Preferred
Shares outstanding on March 16, 2004 were redeemed.

We redeemed our $100 million Series E
Preferred Shares on January 20, 2004, at par value.

(11)

Stock
Based Compensation

At December 31, 2004, we had nine
stock-based employee compensation plans that are described more fully
below.  We are authorized to issue up to
7,144,711 shares of our common stock under these compensation plans.

Fixed Stock Option Plans

We had options outstanding under six fixed
stock option plans as of December 31, 2004. Additional grants may be made
under three of those plans.

A summary of the status of our fixed stock
option plans as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and changes during the
years ended on those dates follows:


The fair values of the options were
determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
assumptions:

The options outstanding at December 31,
2004, under the fixed stock option plans have a range of exercise prices from
$12.94 to $34.14 with a weighted average exercise price of $24.51 and a
weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.11 years. The options
exercisable at December 31, 2004 have a weighted average exercise price of
$22.55.

Each option’s maximum term is ten years. With
limited exceptions, options vest at 20% per year, or, if earlier, upon the
death, retirement or disability of the optionee or a change in control of the
Company.

Performance Based Stock Plans

Performance shares are granted under the 2000
Performance Share Plan, with each performance share economically equivalent to
one share of our common stock. The performance shares vest over a five-year
period with the vesting percentage for a year dependent upon our attainment of
certain predefined levels of earnings growth for such year. The value of vested
performance shares are payable in cash upon the retirement or termination of
employment of the participant. At December 31, 2004, plan participants had
the right to receive up to 200,726 performance shares, of which 48,760 were
vested and 152,002 were contingent upon future earnings achievement.

The amount of compensation cost was based
upon the intrinsic value of the vested performance shares at the end of each
applicable reporting period. The compensation cost that was charged against
income for this plan was $1.7 million, $529,000 and $96,000 for 2004, 2003 and
2002, respectively.

In October 2002, we amended our
Shareholder Value Plan (“SVP Plan”) and Dividend Increase Unit Plans (“DIU
Plans”) by requiring that all payouts under these two plans to be in cash only.
Payments made under our SVP Plan are based upon our cumulative shareholder
return for a three-year period as compared to the cumulative total return of
the S&P 500 and the NAREIT Equity REIT Total Return indices. Payments under
the DIU Plans are based upon increases in our dividend per common share. The
total compensation cost that was charged against income for these two plans was
$2.3 million, $1.6 million and $4.6 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

Directors Stock Payment Plan

Under our 1999 Directors’ Stock Payment Plan, non-employee
members of our board of directors are entitled to 1,600 shares our common stock
per year as partial compensation for services as a board member. The shares are
fully vested when issued and we record the value of the shares as an expense.
The amount of that expense was $525,000, $415,000 and $274,000 for 2004, 2003
and 2002, respectively.


Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
employees are entitled to purchase our common stock at a 15% discount through
payroll deductions. Under SFAS 123, we are required to record the amount of the
discount as compensation expense. The amount of that expense for 2004 and 2003
was $255,000 and $219,000, respectively.

(12)

Financial
Instruments

We are exposed to capital market
risk, such as changes in interest rates. In order to manage the volatility
relating to interest rate risk, we may enter into interest rate hedging
arrangements from time to time. We do not utilize derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We account for derivative
instruments under SFAS 133.

During the first quarter of 2004,
we funded a $65 million note receivable secured by a first mortgage on a
portfolio of office properties owned by a third party located in Atlanta,
Georgia. The note receivable had a maximum two-year term with an interest rate
of 5.5% for the first 6 months and 6.5% thereafter. In order to fund the note
receivable, we borrowed $65 million under a variable interest rate term loan.
The loan bears interest at the rate of LIBOR + 75 basis points, has a maturity
date of January 2005, and contains two six month renewal options. To hedge
our variable interest rate risk on the loan, we entered into two interest rate
swaps totaling $65 million that effectively fixed the rate at 2.184% through
maturity. The hedge accounting rules are being used for the swaps, which allow
for changes in market value of the swaps to be recorded through Other
Comprehensive Income (“OCI”) in equity versus the Statement of Operations. In
the third quarter of 2004, the $65 million note receivable was repaid in
connection with our acquisition of the properties that secured the note.
However, our $65 million note payable and related interest swaps were not
retired. As of December 31, 2004, the fair value of the hedge was $51,000,
which was reflected through an increase in other assets and OCI on our balance
sheet.

In June 2004, we
simultaneously entered into three forward-starting interest rate swaps aggregating
$144.3 million, which effectively fixed the rate on financing expected in 2004
at 5.346%, plus our credit spread over the swap rate. The swaps qualified for
hedge accounting under SFAS 133; therefore, changes in the fair value were
recorded in OCI. In August 2004, we settled these three swaps when we
issued $250.0 million of unsecured notes with an effective interest rate of
6.33%, due in 2014. We paid $6.85 million to unwind the swaps, which will be
amortized from OCI into interest expense over the life of the new 6.33% notes.

In December 2002, we
simultaneously entered into two $50 million forward-starting interest rate
swaps as a hedge to effectively fix the rate on unsecured debt financings
expected in 2003. Then again in February 2003, we simultaneously entered
into two additional $25 million forward-starting interest rate swaps as a hedge
to effectively fix the rate on unsecured debt financings expected in 2003.  All four swaps qualified for hedge accounting
under SFAS 133; therefore, changes in fair value were recorded in other
comprehensive income. In July 2003, we terminated the swaps for a net gain
of $643,000, which is included in other revenue in the Statements of
Operations. The swaps were terminated because our capital needs were met through
the issuance of the Series J Preferred Stock in lieu of the previously
contemplated issuance of debt.


During the year ended December 31,
2002, we recorded a $1.4 million gain associated with an interest rate contract
that did not qualify for hedge accounting. 
The contract expired on December 30, 2002.

In May 2003, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 150,

Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity

(“SFAS 150”). SFAS
150 establishes standards for classifying and measuring as liabilities certain
financial instruments that embody obligations of the issuer and have
characteristics of both liabilities and equity. SFAS 150 is effective for all
financial instruments created or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise is
effective July 1, 2003. We include the operations of one joint venture in
our consolidated financial statements. This joint venture is partially owned by
unaffiliated parties that have noncontrolling interests. SFAS 150 requires the
disclosure of the estimated settlement value of these noncontrolling interests.
As of December 31, 2004, the estimated settlement value of the
noncontrolling interest in this consolidated joint venture was approximately
$1.0 million as compared to the minority interest asset recorded on our books
for this joint venture of $142,000.

(13)

Recent
Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2004, FASB issued SFAS No.
123 (R),

Share-Based Payment

,
which is a revision of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting
for Stock Based Compensation,

and is effective July 2005. We
are currently evaluating the impact on our financial position and results of
operations.

(14)

Commitments
and Contingencies

In 1998 and 1999, certain members of
management and the Board of Directors purchased $69 million of common stock in
connection with an Executive and Senior Officer Stock Purchase Plan. The
purchases were financed by five-year personal loans at market interest rates from
financial institutions. As of December 31, 2004, the outstanding balance
on these loans was approximately $1.6 million as some participants have
extended their involvement in the program beyond the original five years. These
loans were secured by common shares with a fair market value of approximately
$2.5 million purchased through this program and owned by the remaining plan
participants at December 31, 2004. As a condition of the financing
agreement with the financial institution, we guaranteed repayment of principal,
interest and other obligations for each participant, but are fully indemnified
by the participants. In the opinion of management, it is not probable that we
will be required to satisfy these guarantees.

In October 2000, we sold or contributed
industrial properties and undeveloped land with a fair value of $487 million to
a joint venture (Dugan Realty LLC) in which we have a 50% interest and
recognized a net gain of $35.2 million. This transaction expanded an existing
joint venture with an institutional real estate investor. As a result of the
total transactions, we received $363.9 million of proceeds. The joint venture
partially financed this transaction with $350 million of secured mortgage debt,
the repayment of which we directly or indirectly guaranteed. The guarantee
associated with $260 million of such debt expired in December 2003 without
us being required to satisfy the guarantee. The remaining $90 million of such
debt is still guaranteed by us. In
connection with this transaction, the joint venture partners were given an
option to put up to a $50 million interest in the joint venture to us in
exchange for our common stock or cash (at our option), subject to certain
timing and other restrictions. As a result of this put option, we deferred
$10.2 million of gain on sale of depreciated property and recorded a $50
million liability.


We have guaranteed the repayment of $12.3
million of economic development bonds issued by various municipalities in
connection with certain commercial developments. We will be required to make
payments under our guarantees to the extent that incremental taxes from
specified developments are not sufficient to pay the bond debt service.
Management does not believe that it is probable that we will be required to
make any significant payments in satisfaction of these guarantees.

We have also
guaranteed the repayment of a $2 million mortgage loan encumbering the real
estate of one of our unconsolidated joint ventures. Management believes that
the value of the real estate exceeds the loan balance and that we will not be
required to satisfy this guarantee

.

We evaluated our guarantees under FASB
Interpretation 45 (“FIN 45”) in order to determine the amount of potential
liability we may incur resulting from the guarantees. For this evaluation we
used discounted cash flow projections for expected incremental financing to be
generated from anticipated development. Based upon these projections, no
liability was recorded at December 31, 2004.

We have entered into agreements, subject to
the completion of due diligence requirements, resolution of certain
contingencies and completion of customary closing conditions, for the future
acquisition of land totaling $43.8
million. We have also entered into an agreement to acquire a single building
for $8.0 million, which is expected to close in 2005.

We renewed
all of our major insurance policies in 2004. These policies include coverage
for acts of terrorism for our properties. We believe that this insurance
provides adequate coverage against normal insurance risks and that any loss
experienced would not have a significant impact on our liquidity, financial
position, or results of operations.

We are
subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary
course of business.  In the opinion of
management, the amount of any ultimate liability with respect to these actions
will not materially affect our consolidated financial statements or results of
operations.

(15)

Subsequent
Events

Effective as
of January 1, 2005, the Company, DRLP, Duke Management, Inc (“DMI”), an
Indiana corporation, and DRSLP entered into a Contribution Agreement, pursuant
to which DMI contributed to DRLP all of DMI’s limited partnership interest in
DRSLP in exchange for the issuance to DMI of 435,814 DRLP limited partnership
units. As a result, the Company and DRLP now own 100% of the partnership
interests in DRSLP. In addition, DMI owns a total of 501,349 DRLP limited
partnership units as a result of the transaction.

See
additional information regarding this transaction in a Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the SEC on January 4, 2005.


DUKE
  REALTY CORPORATION

Schedule 3

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

DECEMBER 31, 2004

(IN THOUSANDS)













(1)

Depreciation of real estate is computed using
the straight-line method over 40 years for buildings, 15 years for land
improvements and shorter periods based on lease terms (generally 3 to 10 years)
for tenant improvements.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


* By Dennis D. Oklak, Attorney-in-Fact

/s/ Dennis D. Oklak

82