
10-K
1999 10-K


                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                                    FORM 10-K
      (Mark One)
          /X/  Annual report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Fee Required) for the
          fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
                            ----------------
            or
          / /  Transition report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of
          the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  (No Fee Required)
          for the transition period from            to
                                         -----------   -----------
     Commission file number        1-9044
                                  ---------

                            DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION
                    ---------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               Indiana                                 35-1740409
     -------------------------------      -------------------------
     (State or other jurisdiction of      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     incorporation or organization)

          8888 Keystone Crossing, Suite 1200
               Indianapolis, Indiana                        46240
          -----------------------------------         ---------------
          (Address of principal executive offices)        (Zip Code)
                                  (317)  808-6000
                   ------------------------------------------
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
     

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
     Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/10 interest in 7.99%
     Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares ($.01 par value)


     Indicate  by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed  all
     reports  required  to be filed by Section  13  or  15(d)  of  the
     Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding  12  months
     (or  for such shorter period that the Registrant was required  to
     file  such  reports),  and (2) has been subject  to  such  filing
     requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   X   No
                                        ---       ---

     Indicate  by  check  mark  if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
     pursuant to Item 405 Regulation S-K is not contained herein,  and
     will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge,  in
     definitive  proxy  or  information  statements  incorporated   by
     reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to  this
     Form 10-K. ( )

     The   aggregate  market  value  of  the  voting  shares  of   the
     Registrant's outstanding common shares held by non-affiliates  of
     the  Registrant is $2.19 billion based on the last reported  sale
     price on March 8, 2000.

     The  number of  Common Shares outstanding as of March 8, 2000 was
     126,434,219 ($.01 par value).

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
     Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement  for  the
     1999  annual  meeting  of its shareholders  are  incorporated  by
     reference in Part III of this report.
     
                                
                                    Form 10-K


          Item No.                                               Page(s)
          -------
          PART I

               1. Business                                       1 - 4
               2. Properties                                     4 - 23
               3. Legal Proceedings                               24
               4. Submission of Matters to a Vote
                   of Security Holders                            24

          PART II

               5. Market for the Registrant's Common Stock
                   and Related Security Holder Matters            24
               6. Selected Financial Data.                       24 - 25
               6. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
                   Financial Condition and Results of
                   Operations                                    25 - 33
               7a.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure
                   about Market Risks                            33 - 34
               8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data      34
               9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
                   on Accounting and Financial Disclosure          34

          PART III

               10.Directors and Executive Officers of the
                  Registrant                                      34
               11.Executive Compensation                          34
               12.Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
                   Owners and Management                          34
               13.  Certain Relationships and Related
                   Transactions.                                  34

          PART IV

               14.Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
                   and Reports on Form 8-K..                     34 - 76

          Signatures                                             77 - 78
          Exhibits                                               79 - 84

   WHEN  USED  IN THIS FORM 10-K REPORT, THE WORDS "BELIEVES," "EXPECTS,"
   "ESTIMATES" AND SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS ARE INTENDED TO IDENTIFY  FORWARD-
   LOOKING  STATEMENTS. SUCH STATEMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RISKS  AND
   UNCERTAINTIES  WHICH COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER  MATERIALLY.
   IN  PARTICULAR, AMONG THE FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL  RESULTS  TO
   DIFFER  MATERIALLY  ARE  CONTINUED  QUALIFICATION  AS  A  REAL  ESTATE
   INVESTMENT   TRUST,   GENERAL  BUSINESS   AND   ECONOMIC   CONDITIONS,
   COMPETITION,  INCREASES  IN REAL ESTATE CONSTRUCTION  COSTS,  INTEREST
   RATES,  ACCESSIBILITY  OF DEBT AND EQUITY CAPITAL  MARKETS  AND  OTHER
   RISKS  INHERENT IN THE REAL ESTATE BUSINESS INCLUDING TENANT DEFAULTS,
   POTENTIAL  LIABILITY RELATING TO ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS AND ILLIQUIDITY
   OF  REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS. READERS ARE CAUTIONED NOT TO PLACE  UNDUE
   RELIANCE ON THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS, WHICH SPEAK ONLY  AS  OF
   THE  DATE  HEREOF.  THE COMPANY UNDERTAKES NO OBLIGATION  TO  PUBLICLY
   RELEASE   THE  RESULTS  OF  ANY  REVISIONS  TO  THESE  FORWARD-LOOKING
   STATEMENTS WHICH MAY BE MADE TO REFLECT EVENTS OR CIRCUMSTANCES  AFTER
   THE  DATE HEREOF OR TO REFLECT THE OCCURRENCE OF UNANTICIPATED EVENTS.
   READERS ARE ALSO ADVISED TO REFER TO THE COMPANY'S FORM 8-K REPORT  AS
   FILED  WITH THE U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION ON  MARCH  28,
   1996 FOR ADDITIONAL  INFORMATION CONCERNING THESE RISKS.

                                     PART I

   ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

   Duke-Weeks  Realty  Corporation (the "Company") is a self-administered
   and  self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT").  The  Company
   began  operations  upon completion of its initial public  offering  in
   February  1986. In October 1993, the Company completed  an  additional
   common  stock offering and acquired the rental real estate and service
   businesses of Duke Associates, whose operations began in 1972.  As  of
   December  31, 1999, the Company's diversified portfolio of 925  rental
   properties (including 60 properties and three expansions totaling  9.9
   million   square  feet  under  development)  encompass  102.4  million
   rentable  square feet and are leased by a diverse and stable  base  of
   nearly   5,000   tenants   whose  businesses  include   manufacturing,
   retailing,  wholesale  trade, distribution and professional  services.
   The  Company  also  owns more than 4,300 acres  of  unencumbered  land
   ready for development.

   The  Company, through its Service Operations, also provides, on a  fee
   basis,   leasing,   property   and  asset   management,   development,
   construction,  landscaping, build-to-suit,  and  other  tenant-related
   services for more than 700 tenants in over 7.1 million square feet  of
   space  at  properties owned by third-party clients.  With  13  primary
   operating  platforms, the Company concentrates its activities  in  the
   Midwest  and  Southeast United States (see discussion of  Merger  with
   Weeks  Corporation  below). See Item 7, "Management's  Discussion  and
   Analysis  of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"  and  Item
   8,   "Financial  Statements  and  Supplementary  Data"  for  financial
   information.  The  Company's rental operations are  conducted  through
   Duke-Weeks  Realty  Limited Partnership ("DWRLP").  In  addition,  the
   Company  conducts its service operations through Duke Realty  Services
   Limited  Partnership  and  Duke Construction Limited  Partnership,  in
   which  the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Duke Services, Inc.,  is
   the  sole  general  partner. All references to the "Company"  in  this
   Form  10-K  Report  include the Company and those  entities  owned  or
   controlled by the Company, unless the context indicates otherwise.

   The  Company's  headquarters  and executive  offices  are  located  in
   Indianapolis,  Indiana. In addition, the Company has thirteen regional
   offices  located  in  Atlanta,  Georgia; Cincinnati,  Ohio;  Columbus,
   Ohio;   Cleveland,  Ohio;  Chicago,  Illinois;  Dallas,  Texas;
   Jacksonville,  Florida; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Nashville,  Tennessee;
   Orlando, Florida; Raleigh,  North Carolina; St. Louis, Missouri and Tampa,
   Florida.  The Company had 1,460 employees as of December 31, 1999.


                                      - 1 -
   
   BUSINESS STRATEGY

   The  Company's  business  objective is  to  increase  its  Funds  From
   Operations   ("FFO")  by  (i)  maintaining  and  increasing   property
   occupancy  and rental rates through the aggressive management  of  its
   portfolio  of existing properties; (ii) expanding existing properties;
   (iii)  developing and acquiring new properties; and (iv)  providing  a
   full  line  of  real estate services to the Company's tenants  and  to
   third-parties.  FFO  is defined by the National  Association  of  Real
   Estate  Investment  Trusts as net income or loss, excluding  gains  or
   losses  from  debt  restructuring and sales of  depreciated  property,
   plus  operating property depreciation and amortization and adjustments
   for  minority interest and unconsolidated companies on the same basis.
   While  management  believes  that FFO is a  relevant  measure  of  the
   Company's operating performance because it is widely used by  industry
   analysts  to  measure the operating performance of equity REITs,  such
   amount  does  not represent cash flow from operations  as  defined  by
   generally accepted accounting principles, should not be considered  as
   an  alternative  to  net  income  as an  indicator  of  the  Company's
   operating  performance, and is not indicative  of  cash  available  to
   fund  all  cash  flow  needs.  As a fully integrated  commercial  real
   estate   firm,  the  Company  believes  that  its  in-house   leasing,
   management,  development and construction services and  the  Company's
   significant  base  of  commercially zoned  and  unencumbered  land  in
   existing   business  parks  should  give  the  Company  a  competitive
   advantage in its future development activities.

   The  Company  believes that the analysis of real estate  opportunities
   and  risks  can be done most effectively at regional or local  levels.
   As  a  result,  the  Company  intends  to  continue  its  emphasis  on
   increasing  its  market share and effective rents  in  the  Midwestern
   markets  where  it owns properties and enter new markets  with  higher
   growth  potential  (see  discussion of Merger with  Weeks  Corporation
   below). The Company also expects to utilize its more than 4,300  acres
   of  unencumbered land and its many business relationships with  nearly
   5,000   commercial  tenants  to  expand  its  build-to-suit   business
   (development  projects substantially pre-leased to  a  single  tenant)
   and  to pursue other development and acquisition opportunities in  its
   primary  markets  and  elsewhere.  The  Company  believes  that   this
   regional  focus will allow it to assess market supply and  demand  for
   real  estate more effectively as well as to capitalize on  its  strong
   relationships with its tenant base.

   The  Company's  policy  is  to seek to develop  and  acquire  Class  A
   commercial  properties located in markets with high  growth  potential
   for  Fortune 500 companies and other quality regional and local firms.
   The  Company's industrial and suburban office development  focuses  on
   business parks and mixed-use developments  suitable for development of
   multiple  projects on a single site where the Company can  create  and
   control  the business environment. These business parks and  mixed-use
   developments  generally include restaurants and other amenities  which
   the  Company  believes will create an atmosphere that is  particularly
   efficient  and desirable. The Company's retail development focuses  on
   community, power and neighborhood centers in its existing markets.  As
   a fully integrated real estate company, the Company is able to arrange
   for  or provide to its industrial, office and retail tenants not  only
   well  located  and  well maintained facilities,  but  also  additional
   services   such   as   build-to-suit   construction,   tenant   finish
   construction,  expansion  flexibility and  advertising  and  marketing
   services.

   All  of  the  Company's properties are located in areas  that  include
   competitive  properties.  Such  properties  are  generally  owned   by
   institutional  investors, other REITs or local real estate  operators;
   however,  no  single  competitor  or small  group  of  competitors  is
   dominant  in the Company's current markets. The supply and  demand  of
   similar  available rental properties may affect the rental  rates  the
   Company  will  receive  on  its properties.  Based  upon  the  current
   occupancy  rates  in Company and competitive properties,  the  Company
   believes  there will not be significant competitive pressure to  lower
   rental rates in the near future.

                                      - 2 -
   
   FINANCING STRATEGY

   The  Company  seeks  to  maintain  a well-balanced,  conservative  and
   flexible  capital  structure by: (i) currently targeting  a  ratio  of
   long-term debt to total market capitalization in the range of  25%  to
   40%;  (ii)  extending and sequencing the maturity dates of  its  debt;
   (iii)  borrowing  primarily at fixed rates;  (iv)  generally  pursuing
   current  and future long-term debt financings and refinancings  on  an
   unsecured  basis;  and (v) maintaining conservative debt  service  and
   fixed   charge  coverage  ratios.  Management  believes   that   these
   strategies  have enabled and should continue to enable the Company  to
   access  the  debt  and  equity  capital markets  for  their  long-term
   requirements such as debt refinancings and financing development  and
   acquisitions of additional rental properties. The Company  has  raised
   approximately  $1.7 billion through public debt and  equity  offerings
   during  the  three  years ended December 31,  1999.  In  addition,  as
   discussed  under  Item  7, "Management's Discussion  and  Analysis  of
   Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the Company  has  $750
   million   in  unsecured  lines  of  credit  available  for  short-term
   fundings   of   development  and  acquisition  of  additional   rental
   properties.  In  addition  to  debt and equity  capital  markets,  the
   Company has developed a strategy to pursue favorable opportunities  to
   dispose  of  assets  that  no  longer  meet  the  Company's  long-term
   investment  criteria and re-deploy the proceeds into  new  investments
   with  excellent long-term growth prospects. See additional  discussion
   under  Item  7,  "Management's Discussion and  Analysis  of  Financial
   Condition  and  Results of Operations." The Company's  debt  to  total
   market  capitalization ratio (total market capitalization  is  defined
   as  the  total  market value of all outstanding Common  and  Preferred
   Shares  and units of limited partnership interest ("Units")  in  DWRLP
   plus  outstanding indebtedness) at December 31, 1999 was  38.17%.  The
   Company's  ratio of earnings to debt service and ratio of earnings  to
   fixed  charges  for the year ended December 31, 1999  were  2.58x  and
   1.79x,  respectively.  In  computing the ratio  of  earnings  to  debt
   service,  earnings  have  been calculated by adding  debt  service  to
   income  before gains or losses on property sales and minority interest
   in  earnings  of DWRLP. Debt service consists of interest expense  and
   recurring  principal amortization (excluding maturities) and  excludes
   amortization  of  debt  issuance costs.  In  computing  the  ratio  of
   earnings  to  fixed charges, earnings have been calculated  by  adding
   fixed  charges, excluding capitalized interest, to income before gains
   or  losses  on  property sales and minority interest  in  earnings  of
   DWRLP.  Fixed charges consist of interest costs, whether  expensed  or
   capitalized,  the  interest component of rental expense,  amortization
   of  debt  issuance  costs  and preferred stock dividend  requirements.
   Management  believes  these  measures  to  be  consistent   with   its
   financing strategy.

   MERGER WITH WEEKS CORPORATION

   In July 1999, Weeks Corporation ("Weeks"), a self-administered, self-
   managed geographically focused REIT which operated primarily  in  the
   southeastern  United  States, was merged with and  into  Duke  Realty
   Investments,  Inc.  ("Duke"). This transaction is hereafter  referred
   to  as  the "Weeks Merger." In accordance with the terms of the Weeks
   Merger,  each outstanding Weeks common share was converted into  1.38
   common  shares of Duke and each outstanding Weeks Series A  preferred
   share  was converted into one comparable share of a new class of  the
   Company's  Series  F  cumulative  redeemable  preferred  shares  (the
   "Series  F  Preferred  Shares"). As a  result,  27.4  million  common
   shares  and 6,000,000 Series F Preferred Shares were issued to Weeks'
   shareholders in exchange for all of the outstanding Weeks common  and
   preferred  shares.  The  total purchase  price  of  Weeks  aggregated
   approximately  $1.9  billion, which included the  assumption  of  the
   outstanding  debt  and  liabilities of Weeks  of  approximately  $775
   million. The transaction was structured as a tax-free merger and  was
   accounted for under the purchase method.

                                      - 3 -
   
   OTHER

   The  Company's  operations  are  not dependent  on  a  single  or  few
   customers  as no single customer accounts for more than  1.5%  of  the
   Company's  total revenue. The Company's operations are not subject  to
   any  significant seasonal fluctuations. The Company believes it is  in
   compliance  with  environmental regulations and  does  not  anticipate
   material effects of continued compliance.

   For  additional  information regarding the Company's  investments  and
   operations,  see  Item  7, "Management's Discussion  and  Analysis  of
   Financial   Condition  and  Results  of  Operations,"  and   Item   8,
   "Financial   Statements  and  Supplementary  Data."   For   additional
   information  about  the  Company's  business  segments,  see  Item  8,
   "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

   ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

   PRODUCT REVIEW
   --------------
   As  of  December  31,  1999,  the  Company  owns  an  interest  in   a
   diversified  portfolio  of  925  commercial   properties  encompassing
   approximately  102.4 million net rentable square  feet  (including  60
   properties  and  three expansions comprising 9.9 million  square  feet
   under  development) located primarily in eight states  and  more  than
   4,300 acres of land for future development.

      INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES:
      ----------------------
      The   Company   owns   interests  in  674   industrial   properties
      encompassing approximately 77.2 million square feet (75%  of  total
      square feet) more specifically described as follows:

        BULK WAREHOUSES - Industrial warehouse/distribution buildings with clear
        ceiling heights of 20 feet or more. The Company owns 452 buildings
        totaling 63.7 million square feet of such properties.
        SERVICE CENTERS - Also known as flex buildings or light industrial, this
        product type has 12-18 foot clear ceiling heights and a combination of
        drive-up and dock-height loading access. The Company owns 222 buildings
        totaling 13.5 million square feet of such properties.

      OFFICE PROPERTIES:
      ------------------
      The  Company  owns  interests  in  219  office  buildings  totaling
      approximately 22.5 million square feet (22% of total  square  feet)
      more specifically described as follows:
       SUBURBAN OFFICE - The Company owns 215 suburban office buildings
        totaling 21.6 million square feet.
       CBD OFFICE - The Company owns four downtown office projects totaling
        approximately 861,000 square feet.

      RETAIL PROPERTIES:
      ------------------
      The   Company  owns  interests  in  32  retail  projects   totaling
      approximately  2.7 million square feet (3% of total  square  feet).
      These  properties  encompass both power and  neighborhood  shopping
      centers.

      LAND:
      -----
      The  Company  owns more than 4,300 acres of land located  primarily
      in  its  existing business parks. The land is ready  for  immediate
      use  and  is unencumbered by debt. Over 62 million square  feet  of
      additional  space can be developed on these sites and  all  of  the
      land is zoned for either office, industrial or retail development.

      SERVICE OPERATIONS:
      -------------------
      The  Company  provides property and asset management,  development,
      leasing  and  construction  services  to  third  party  owners   in
      addition  to  its  own properties. The Company's  current  property
      management base for third parties includes over 7.1 million  square
      feet of properties serving more than 700 tenants.

   PROPERTY DESCRIPTIONS
   ---------------------
   The Company's properties are described on the following pages:
                                      - 4 -
   
   

                    Total Under Development            636.23  9,875,560     41%
                                                       ------  ---------

     Total In-Service and Under Development          6,848.90 102,377,807    87%
                                                     ======== ===========
                                     - 22 -

[1]   The Company retains the indicated effective ownership interest in an
entity which owns the building. The Company shares in the profit or
loss from such building in accordance with the Company's ownership
interest.

[2]   These buildings are owned by a partnership in which the Company is a
partner. The Company owns a 10% capital interest in  the partnership and
receives a 50% interest in the residual cash flow after payment of a 9%
preferred return to the other partner on its capital interest.

[3] The Company owns the building and has a leasehold interest in  the
land underlying this building with a lease term expiring in 2048 or later.

[4] The Company has a leasehold interest in this building
with a lease term expiring May 2006.

[5]  These are properties for which there are loans to owners which fully
encumber the properties. Under the terms of the loans, the Company
effectively receives all income and economic value from the properties.
As a result, the properties are accounted for as owned properties.

[6] The Company has a leasehold interest in the building and the
underlying land with a lease term expiring June 2020.  The Company has an
option to purchase the fee interest in the property throughout the term of
the lease.

[7]  This building is owned by a partnership in which the Company owns a
60% interest.  The Company receives an 11% cumulative preferred return on
its equity, with any excess cash flow after debt service received in
accordance with the ownership interest.
                                 - 23 -
   
   ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   The  Company  is not party to any claims or litigation that it  believes
   the  results,  individually or in the aggregate, will  have  a  material
   adverse  effect  on  its  business, financial  position  or  results  of
   operations.

   ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

   No  matters  were  submitted to a vote of security holders  during  the
   fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 1999.

                                     PART II

   ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
   STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

   The  Company's  common shares are listed for trading on  the  New  York
   Stock  Exchange, symbol DRE. The following table sets  forth  the  high
   and  low sales prices of the common stock for the periods indicated and
   the  dividend paid per share during each such period.  Comparable  cash
   dividends  are expected in the future. As of February 29,  2000,  there
   were 10,382 record holders of common shares.
   

   On  January 26, 2000, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of
   $.39  per share payable on February 29, 2000 to common shareholders  of
   record  on  February 11, 2000. Following is a summary  of  the  taxable
   nature  of  the Company's dividends for the three years ended  December
   31:
       

   Dividends per common share of $1.27, $1.09 and $.97 were required  for
   the  Company  to  maintain its REIT status in 1999,  1998,  and  1997,
   respectively.

   See  "Item 10-Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant"  for
   a  description  of  certain  shares of common  stock  issued  to  non-
   employee directors in non-registered transactions pursuant to  Section
   4(2) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

   ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

   The   following   sets  forth  selected  consolidated  financial   and
   operating information on a historical basis for the Company  for  each
   of  the  years  in the five-year period ended December 31,  1999.  The
   following  information  should be read in  conjunction  with  Item  7,
   "Management's  Discussion  and Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and
   Results   of  Operations"  and  Item  8,  "Financial  Statements   and
   Supplementary  Data" included in this Form 10-K (in thousands,  except
   per share amounts):

                                     - 24 -
   
   

    (1)Information  for  all  five years reflects the  two-for-one  stock
      split effected in August 1997.

   (2)Funds  From  Operations, is defined by the National Association  of
      Real  Estate  Investment Trusts as net income  or  loss,  excluding
      gains  or  losses from debt restructuring and sales of  depreciated
      property,  plus  operating property depreciation  and  amortization
      and  adjustments for minority interest and unconsolidated companies
      on  the  same basis. Funds From Operations does not represent  cash
      flow from operations as defined by generally accepted accounting
      principles, should not be considered as an alternative to net income
      as an indicator of the Company's operating performance, and is not
      indicative of cash available to fund all cash flow needs.

   ITEM  7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF  FINANCIAL  CONDITION
   AND RESULTS OF  OPERATIONS

   OVERVIEW
   --------
   The   Company's   income  from  rental  operations  is   substantially
   influenced by the supply and demand for the Company's rental space  in
   its  primary  markets,  its ability to maintain  occupancy  rates  and
   increase  rental  rates on its in-service portfolio  and  to  continue
   development and acquisition of additional rental properties.

   The  Company's primary markets in the Midwest have continued to  offer
   strong  and  stable local economies and have provided  attractive  new
   development   opportunities  because  of   their   central   location,
   established manufacturing base, skilled work force and moderate  labor
   costs.  Additionally, through the Weeks Merger (see  discussion  below
   under  Merger  with Weeks Corporation), the Company has  expanded  and
   diversified  its geographic base into southeastern markets  that  have
   similar  demographics to the Midwest and are located in  fast  growing
   southeast  cities expected to provide additional growth opportunities.
   The Company's occupancy rate of its in-service portfolio was 91.9%  at
   December  31,  1999.  The  Company expects  to  maintain  its  overall
   occupancy at comparable levels and to increase rental rates as  leases
   are  renewed  or  new leases are executed. This stable  occupancy  and
   increasing  rental  rates  should improve  the  Company's  results  of
   operations from its in-service properties. The Company's strategy  for
   continued  growth includes developing and acquiring additional  rental
   properties  in its primary markets and expanding into other attractive
   markets.

                                     - 25 -
   
   The  Company  tracks  Same Property performance which  compares  those
   properties  that were in-service for all of a two-year  period.  As  a
   result  of  the  rapid  growth  of the  Company,  this  population  of
   properties  only  represented 62.4% and 47.7%  of  the  in-service
   portfolio  at  December  31,  1999  and  December  31,  1998,
   respectively.  In 1999, net operating income from the  same   property
   portfolio  increased  3.2% over 1998, while for  1998,  net  operating
   income from the same property portfolio increased 5.4% over 1997.

   The following table sets forth information regarding the Company's in-
   service  portfolio  of  rental properties  as  of  December  31,  1999
   (square feet in thousands):
   

   Management  expects occupancy of the in-service property portfolio  to
   remain  stable  because  (i) only 10.3% and  10.9%  of  the  Company's
   occupied  square  footage is subject to leases expiring  in  2000  and
   2001,   respectively,  and  (ii)  the  Company's  renewal   percentage
   averaged 72%, 69% and 81% in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

   The   following   tables  reflects  the  Company's  in-service   lease
   expiration  schedules  as  of  December  31,  1999,  by  product  type
   indicating  square  footage and annualized net effective  rents  under
   expiring leases (in thousands, except per square foot amounts):
   


   This stable occupancy, along with increasing rental rates in each  of
   the  Company's  markets,  will  allow  the  in-service  portfolio  to
   continue  to  provide  an increasing level of  earnings  from  rental
   operations.  The Company also expects to realize growth  in  earnings
   from  rental  operations through (i) the development and  acquisition
   of  additional  rental properties in its primary  markets;  (ii)  the
   expansion  into  other  attractive markets;  (iii)  re-deployment  of
   capital proceeds from the disposal of non-performing and low
                                     - 26 -
   
   growth assets into additional rental properties with excellent  long-
   term  growth  prospects; and (iv) the completion of the  9.9  million
   square  feet  of properties under development at December  31,  1999,
   over  the  next four quarters and thereafter. These properties
   under development are expected to be placed in service as follows  (in
   thousands, except percentages):
   

   MERGER WITH WEEKS CORPORATION

   In July 1999, Weeks Corporation ("Weeks"), a self-administered, self-
   managed geographically focused REIT which operated primarily  in  the
   southeastern  United  States, was merged with and  into  Duke  Realty
   Investments,  Inc.  ("Duke"). This transaction is hereafter  referred
   to  as  the "Weeks Merger." In accordance with the terms of the Weeks
   Merger,  each outstanding Weeks common share was converted into  1.38
   common  shares of Duke and each outstanding Weeks Series A  preferred
   share  was converted into one comparable share of a new class of  the
   Company's  Series  F  cumulative  redeemable  preferred  shares  (the
   "Series  F  Preferred  Shares"). As a  result,  27.4  million  common
   shares  and 6,000,000 Series F Preferred Shares were issued to Weeks'
   shareholders in exchange for all of the outstanding Weeks common  and
   preferred  shares.  The  total purchase  price  of  Weeks  aggregated
   approximately  $1.9  billion, which included the  assumption  of  the
   outstanding  debt  and  liabilities of Weeks  of  approximately  $775
   million. The transaction was structured as a tax-free merger and  was
   accounted for under the purchase method.

   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
   ---------------------
   A  summary  of  the Company's operating results and property  statistics
   for  each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1999,
   is  as  follows (in thousands, except number of properties and per share
   amounts):
   

   (1) As adjusted for the two-for-one stock split effected in
      August 1997.

                                     - 27 -
   
   COMPARISON  OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 TO YEAR ENDED  DECEMBER  31,
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Rental Operations
   -----------------
   The  Company  increased its in-service portfolio of rental  properties
   from  453  properties comprising 52.0 million square feet at  December
   31,  1998  to  865 properties comprising 92.5 million square  feet  at
   December  31, 1999 through the acquisition of 366 properties  totaling
   31.4  million  square  feet  and  the  placement  in  service  of   67
   properties  and  one  four building expansions totaling  10.4  million
   square.  Of  these additional acquisition properties,  335  properties
   totaling 28.6 million square feet relate to the Weeks Merger.

   The  Company  also  disposed  of 21 properties  totaling  1.3  million
   square  feet.  These  412 net additional rental  properties  primarily
   account  for  the  $186.9  million increase in  revenues  from  Rental
   Operations  from  1998  to 1999. The increase from  1998  to  1999  in
   rental  expenses, real estate taxes and depreciation and  amortization
   expense  is  also  a  result of the additional 412  in-service  rental
   properties.

   The   $26.5   million  increase  in  interest  expense  is   primarily
   attributed  to  higher outstanding debt balances associated  with  the
   financing  of  the  Company's  investment  activities.  The  increased
   balances  include $450 million of unsecured debt issued in  1999,  the
   assumption  of  $185  million of secured  debt  and  $287  million  of
   unsecured  debt in the Weeks Merger, and increased borrowings  on  the
   Company's  unsecured  lines of credit. These  higher  borrowing  costs
   were  partially offset by the capitalization of interest on  increased
   property  development activities which increased in 1999  compared  to
   1998.

   As  a  result  of  the  above mentioned items,  earnings  from  Rental
   Operations  increased $69.4 million from $126.0 million  for  1998  to
   $195.4 million for 1999.

   Service Operations
   ------------------
   Service  Operations  revenues increased from $24.7  million  to  $54.0
   million  for  the year ended 1999 as compared to 1998 primarily  as  a
   result of increases in construction management fee revenue because  of
   an  increase  in  third-party construction volume. Service  Operations
   expenses  increased from $17.5 million to $36.1 million for  the  year
   ended  1999  as compared to 1998 as a result of (i) payroll increasing
   from  $12.5 million in 1998 to $17.2 million in 1999 due to the  Weeks
   Merger  and  additional personnel added to existing  regional  offices
   due  to  the  overall growth of the Company; (ii) income tax  expenses
   increasing  by  $5.2  million as a result  of  increased  activity  in
   properties  constructed  for  sale;  and  (iii)  maintenance  expenses
   increasing from $2.5 million in 1998 to $9.7 million 1999 through  the
   addition  of substantial landscape operations in the Weeks Merger  and
   the growth of the Company in Midwest markets.

   As  a  result  of  the  above-mentioned items, earnings  from  Service
   Operations increased $10.7 million from $7.2 million in 1998 to  $17.9
   million for the year ended 1999.

   General and Administrative Expense
   ----------------------------------
   General  and  administrative expense increased from $11.6 million  for
   the  year  ended 1998 to $16.6 million for 1999 primarily  due  to  an
   overall  increase  in  corporate expenses associated  with  the  Weeks
   Merger and the overall growth of the Company.

   Earnings from Land and Depreciated Property Sales
   -------------------------------------------------
   During  1999, the Company developed a disposition strategy  to  pursue
   favorable  opportunities  to dispose of real  estate  assets  that  no
   longer  meet  long-term investment objectives of  the  Company,  which
   resulted  in  net sales proceeds of $76.4 million and a  net  gain  of
   $10.0 million in 1999.
                                     - 28 -
   
   As  part  of this ongoing real estate asset disposition strategy,  the
   Company was committed to the sale of 13 real estate assets with a  net
   book  value  of  $153.6 million as of December 31,  1999.  Subject  to
   normal closing risks, the Company expects to complete these and  other
   dispositions  during  2000  and  use  the  proceeds  to  fund   future
   investments  in real estate assets. As part of management's  long-term
   strategy,  the Company will continue to pursue favorable opportunities
   to  dispose  of  assets  that  do not meet  its  long-term  investment
   objectives   and  use  proceeds  for  the  funding  of   real   estate
   development and acquisition opportunities.

   Net Income Available for Common Shares
   --------------------------------------
   Net  income  available for common shares for the year  ended  December
   31,  1999,  was  $139.6 million compared to $90.9  million  for  1998.
   This  increase  results primarily from the increases in the  operating
   results of rental and service operations explained above.

   COMPARISON  OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 TO YEAR ENDED  DECEMBER  31,
   -----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Rental Operations
   -----------------
   The  Company  increased its in-service portfolio of rental  properties
   from  355  properties comprising 40.7 million square feet at  December
   31,  1997  to  453 properties comprising 52.0 million square  feet  at
   December  31,  1998 through the acquisition of 66 properties  totaling
   5.0  million square feet and the placement in service of 34 properties
   and  seven  building  expansions  totaling  6.3  million  square  feet
   developed by the Company.

   The  Company  also disposed of two properties totaling  21,000  square
   feet. These 98 net additional rental properties primarily account  for
   the  $118.9  million increase in revenues from Rental Operations  from
   1997  to 1998. The increase from 1997 to 1998 in rental expenses, real
   estate  taxes  and  depreciation and amortization expense  is  also  a
   result of the additional 98 in-service rental properties.

   The   $19.9   million  increase  in  interest  expense  is   primarily
   attributable to higher outstanding debt balances associated  with  the
   financing  of  the  Company's  investment  activities.  The  increased
   balances  include $250 million of unsecured debt issued  in  1998  and
   increased borrowings on the Company's unsecured line of credit.  These
   higher borrowing costs were partially offset by the capitalization  of
   interest  in property development activities which increased  in  1998
   compared to 1997.

   As  a  result  of  the  above mentioned items,  earnings  from  Rental
   Operations  increased $42.3 million from $83.7 million  for  the  year
   ended 1997 to $126.0 million for 1998.

   Service Operations
   ------------------
   Service  Operations  revenues increased from $22.4  million  to  $24.7
   million  for  the year ended 1998 as compared to 1997 primarily  as  a
   result of increases in construction management fee revenue because  of
   an  increase  in  third-party construction volume. Service  Operations
   expenses  increased from $15.2 million to $17.5 million for  the  year
   ended  1998  as compared to 1997 primarily as a result of an  increase
   in  payroll expenses resulting from the overall growth of the  Company
   and the additional regional offices opened in 1997.

   As  a  result  of  the  above-mentioned items, earnings  from  Service
   Operations remained constant at $7.2 million for the years ended  1998
   and 1997.

                                     - 29 -

   
   General and Administrative Expense
   ----------------------------------
   General  and  administrative expense increased from $6.5  million  for
   the  year ended 1997 to $11.6 million for 1998 as a result of internal
   acquisition  costs  which are no longer permitted  to  be  capitalized
   being  charged  to general and administrative expense as  well  as  an
   increase  in  state and local income taxes resulting from the  overall
   growth of the Company.

   Net Income Available for Common Shares
   --------------------------------------
   Net  income  available for common shares for the  year  ended  1998  was
   $90.9  million  compared  to  $66.0 million  for  1997.   This  increase
   results primarily from the increases in the operating results of  rental
   and service operations explained above.

   LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

   Financial Flexibility
   ---------------------
   During  the  latter half of 1998 and continuing into  1999,  the  real
   estate  industry  experienced a reduced  supply  of  favorably  priced
   equity  and debt capital, which generally decreased the level  of  new
   investment  activity by real estate companies. While the  Company  has
   been  subject  to  the same capital market conditions  as  other  real
   estate  companies,  management believes the  Company's  financial  and
   liquidity position are relatively strong. Over the years, the  Company
   has  carefully  managed  its  balance sheet  in  an  effort  to  avoid
   liquidity  issues in any given quarter or year. In management's  view,
   this  should  provide a competitive advantage in the  current  capital
   constrained market over many of its competitors. Following  are  three
   key  indicators that demonstrate the overall strength of the Company's
   financial  position.  First,  the Company  believes  that  its  strong
   balance  sheet  and  expected real estate asset  disposition  proceeds
   will  provide  the  Company  with  sufficient  capital  to  fund   its
   investment   activities  during  2000  without  the  need   to   raise
   additional  common equity. Second, the Company has only $65.0  million
   of  final debt maturities in 2000. Third, as of December 31, 1999, the
   Company  has  a  total of $492.0 million of undrawn  capacity  on  its
   existing  lines of credit to meet its short-term obligations. Although
   it  is  not clear how long the current market conditions will prevail,
   management  believes that these key factors will provide  the  Company
   with  substantial  financial flexibility to capitalize  on  investment
   opportunities  which  may  not  be  available  to  other  real  estate
   companies with more limited financial resources.

   Operating Activities
   --------------------
   Net  cash  flow provided by operating activities increased  by  $121.5
   million  in 1999 as compared to 1998 and by $62.0 million in  1998  as
   compared  to  1997.  These increases are due primarily  to  the  Weeks
   Merger  in  July 1999, the development and acquisition  of  additional
   rental properties, and cash flow from existing real estate assets.

   Investing and Financing Activities
   ----------------------------------
   During  1999,  1998  and  1997, the Company invested  cash  of  $767.3
   million,  $703.8  million and $597.3 million,  respectively,  in  real
   estate  investments. The $767.3 million invested  in  real  estate  in
   1999  was  financed primarily from the borrowings under the  Company's
   unsecured  lines  of  credit. These unsecured  lines  of  credit  were
   partially repaid with proceeds from the issuance of $450.0 million  of
   long-term  unsecured  debt, $214.8 million in net  proceeds  from  the
   sale  of common shares in 1999, and $96.5 million of net proceeds from
   the  sale of preferred shares in 1999. The $703.8 million invested  in
   real  estate during 1998 was financed primarily from borrowings  under
   the Company's line of credit. These borrowings were partially
                                     - 30 -
   
   repaid  during 1998 with proceeds from the issuance of $250.0  million
   of  long-term unsecured debt, $211.5 million in net proceeds from  the
   sale  of  common  shares in 1998, and $129.5 million of  net  proceeds
   from  the  sale  of  preferred  shares in  1998.  The  $597.3  million
   invested  in  real  estate  during 1997 was  financed  primarily  from
   borrowings  under the Company's line of credit. These borrowings  were
   partially  repaid  during  1997 with proceeds  from  the  issuance  of
   $100.0  million  of long-term unsecured debt, $321.2  million  in  net
   proceeds  from  the sale of common shares in 1997, and $146.1  million
   of net proceeds from the sale of preferred shares in 1997.

   Other  significant financing activity included the payment  of  $196.7
   million,  $123.1  million and $85.7 million in  common  and  preferred
   share  distributions  in  1999,  1998  and  1997,  respectively.   The
   increases  are  primarily  attributable to  (i)  an  increase  in  the
   overall  number  of  common  shares  and  Series  F  Preferred  Shares
   outstanding  resulting from the Weeks Merger in 1999; and (ii)  annual
   increases in the cash distributions paid per common share.

   The  Company  currently  has  on  file  three  Form  S-3  Registration
   Statements  (the  "Shelf  Registrations")  with  the  Securities   and
   Exchange  Commission which have remaining availability as of  December
   31,   1999  of  $292.9  million  to  issue  additional  common  stock,
   preferred stock and unsecured debt securities. The Company intends  to
   issue  additional  securities under such Shelf Registrations  to  fund
   the  development and acquisition of additional rental properties.  The
   Company  also  has  a  Shelf Registration on  file  for  at-the-market
   offerings  of  1.5  million shares of common stock. The  Company  also
   plans  to  file a $500.0 million Shelf Registration during  the  first
   quarter of 2000.

   The  recurring  capital  needs  of the Company  are  funded  primarily
   through  the  undistributed net cash provided by operating activities.
   A  summary  of  the  Company's recurring capital  expenditures  is  as
   follows (in thousands):
   

   The   Company  has  the  following  lines  of  credit  available  (in
   thousands):
   

   Both  lines  of  credit are used to fund development and acquisition  of
   additional rental properties and to provide working capital.

   Effective  July 2, 1999, the interest rate on the $450 million  line  of
   credit  was  adjusted  from LIBOR + .80% to LIBOR + .70%.  Additionally,
   the  $450 million line of credit allows the Company an option to  obtain
   borrowings from the financial institutions that participate in the  line
   of  credit  at  rates lower than the stated interest  rate,  subject  to
   certain  restrictions.  Amounts outstanding on the  line  of  credit  at
   December 31, 1999 are at LIBOR + .70%.

   The  $300  million  line  of  credit  was  obtained  July  2,  1999,  in
   connection with the Weeks Merger.

   The  debt  outstanding at December 31, 1999 totals $2.1 billion  with  a
   weighted  average  interest  rate of 7.22%  maturing  at  various  dates
   through 2028. The Company has $1.6 billion of unsecured debt and  $528.7
   million  of  secured  debt outstanding at December 31,  1999.  Scheduled
   principal amortization of such debt totaled $10.2 million for  the  year
   ended December 31, 1999.
                                     - 31 -
   
   Following  is  a  summary  of  the  scheduled  future  amortization  and
   maturities  of  the  Company's indebtedness at  December  31,  1999  (in
   thousands):
   

   SHAREHOLDER DIVIDEND/DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS

   The  Company intends to pay regular quarterly dividends from net  cash
   provided  by  operating activities. A quarterly dividend of  $.39  per
   common  share  was declared on January 26, 2000, which  represents  an
   annualized dividend of $1.56 per share.

   FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

   Management  believes  that  Funds From Operations  ("FFO"),  which  is
   defined  by the National Association of Real Estate Investment  Trusts
   as   net  income  or  loss,  excluding  gains  or  losses  from   debt
   restructuring  and  sales  of  depreciated  property,  plus  operating
   property  depreciation and amortization and adjustments  for  minority
   interest  and  unconsolidated companies on  the  same  basis,  is  the
   industry  standard  for  reporting  the  operations  of  real   estate
   investment trusts.

   The  following reflects the calculation of the Company's FFO  for  the
   years ended December 31 (in thousands):
   

   The  increase in FFO during the three-year period results primarily
   from   the  increased  in-service  rental  property  portfolio   as
   discussed  above under "Results of Operations," and, for  the  year
   ended 1999, the Weeks Merger.

   While  management believes that FFO is the most relevant and widely
   used  measure of the Company's operating performance,  such  amount
   does  not  represent  cash  flow  from  operations  as  defined  by
   generally  accepted accounting principles, should not be considered
   as  an  alternative to net income as an indicator of the  Company's
   operating  performance, and is not indicative of cash available  to
   fund all cash flow needs.
                                     - 32 -
   
   YEAR 2000

   The  Company  did not experience any Year 2000 related  disruptions
   or  failures  to  its internal operations or the critical  building
   systems of its properties. The primary focus of the Company's  Year
   2000  project  was  to  protect the tenant  spaces,  buildings  and
   internal operating systems. The rewards of the Company's Year  2000
   planning   efforts   can  be  found  in  the   detailed   emergency
   contingency  plans that are now in place for all buildings  in  all
   markets.  With  these  plans  in  place,  in  the  event  of  major
   unforeseen events such as loss of electricity, utilities  or  other
   vital  services, the Company's property/asset managers  are  better
   equipped   to   efficiently  and  effectively   respond   to   such
   emergencies. In addition to the foregoing, enhancements  were  made
   to   the  Company's  internal  information  systems  (software  and
   hardware)  in  preparation for the Year 2000. It is  expected  that
   these   upgrades  and  replacements  will  benefit  the   Company's
   business  operations for years to come. Non-reimbursable  costs  to
   the  company  in  preparing for the Year  2000  were  approximately
   $125,000.

   ITEM  7A.   QUANTITATIVE  AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE  ABOUT  MARKET
   RISKS

   The  Company  is  exposed to interest rate changes primarily  as  a
   result  of  its line of credit and long-term debt used to  maintain
   liquidity  and  fund  capital expenditures  and  expansion  of  the
   Company's  real  estate investment portfolio  and  operations.  The
   Company's  interest rate risk management objective is to limit  the
   impact  of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and  to
   lower  its  overall borrowing costs. To achieve its objectives  the
   Company  borrows  primarily  at fixed  rates  and  may  enter  into
   derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps,  caps
   and  treasury locks in order to mitigate its interest rate risk  on
   a  related  financial instrument. The Company does not  enter  into
   derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes.

   The  Company's interest rate risk is monitored using a  variety  of
   techniques.  The  table  below presents the principal  amounts  (in
   thousands)  of  the  expected annual maturities,  weighted  average
   interest  rates for the average debt outstanding in  the  specified
   period,  fair  values  and  other terms required  to  evaluate  the
   expected  cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes.  The
   fair  values  of the Company's debt instruments are  calculated  as
   the  present value of estimated future cash flows using a  discount
   rate commensurate with the risks involved.
   

   The  Company  has three interest rate swap agreements  outstanding
   which  have  an  aggregate fair market value of $2.65  million  at
   December  31,  1999. The swap agreements mature  on  December  31,
   2001.

                                     - 33 -
   
   As  the table incorporates only those exposures that exist  as  of
   December  31,  1999,  it  does  not consider  those  exposures  or
   positions  which  could arise after that date.  Moreover,  because
   firm  commitments  are  not presented  in  the  table  above,  the
   information presented therein has limited predictive value.  As  a
   result,  the Company's ultimate realized gain or loss with respect
   to  interest  rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures  that
   arise during the period, the Company's hedging strategies at  that
   time, and interest rates.

   ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

   The  financial statements and supplementary data are included under Item
   14 of this Report.

   ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS AND ON
   ACCOUNTING FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

   None.
                                    PART III

   ITEM 10.  TRUSTEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   Information  regarding  the  Company's  executive  officers  and   other
   information  required  by  this  Item  10  is  incorporated  herein   by
   reference to the Company's 1999 Proxy Statement.

   ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

   Incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  the  Company's   1999   Proxy
   Statement.

   ITEM   12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF  CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS   AND
   MANAGEMENT

   Incorporated by reference to the Company's 1999 Proxy Statement.

   ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

   Incorporated by reference to the  Company's 1999 Proxy Statement.

                                     PART IV

   ITEM  14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS  ON
   FORM 8-K

   (A)  DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT

          1.   CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

            The   following  Consolidated  Financial  Statements   of   the
            Company,  together with the Independent Auditors'  Report,  are
            listed below:

            Independent Auditors' Report
            Consolidated Balance Sheets, December 31, 1999 and 1998
            Consolidated  Statements of Operations,  Years  Ended  December
            31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
            Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows,  Years  Ended  December
            31, 1999, 1998 and 1997
            Consolidated  Statements of Shareholders' Equity,  Years  Ended
            December 31, 1999, 1998
              And 1997
            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                     - 34 -
           
          2.   CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

           Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

          3.   EXHIBITS

            See Index to Exhibits on page 73 of this report.

                                     - 35 -
      
      INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

      The Shareholders and Directors of
      Duke-Weeks Realty Corporation:

      We  have  audited  the consolidated financial statements  of  Duke-
      Weeks  Realty  Corporation  and  Subsidiaries  as  listed  in   the
      accompanying   index.  In  connection  with  our  audits   of   the
      consolidated  financial  statements,  we  also  have  audited   the
      financial  statement schedule as listed in the accompanying  index.
      These   consolidated  financial  statements   and   the   financial
      statement   schedule  are  the  responsibility  of  the   Company's
      management.  Our  responsibility is to express an  opinion  on  the
      consolidated  financial  statements  and  the  financial  statement
      schedule based on our audits.

      We  conducted  our  audits  in accordance with  generally  accepted
      auditing  standards.  Those standards  require  that  we  plan  and
      perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  the
      financial  statements are free of material misstatement.  An  audit
      includes  examining,  on  a  test basis,  evidence  supporting  the
      amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit  also
      includes  assessing the accounting principles used and  significant
      estimates  made  by management, as well as evaluating  the  overall
      financial  statement  presentation.  We  believe  that  our  audits
      provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In  our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred  to
      above  present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the  financial
      position  of Duke-Weeks Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries  as  of
      December  31,  1999 and 1998, and the results of  their  operations
      and  their  cash  flows  for each of the years  in  the  three-year
      period  ended  December  31,  1999, in  conformity  with  generally
      accepted  accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the  related
      financial  statement schedule, when considered in relation  to  the
      basic  consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
      fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the  information  set  forth
      therein.



      KPMG LLP
      Indianapolis, Indiana
      January 25, 2000

                                     - 36 -



          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                     - 37 -


                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                         FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


     


          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                     - 38 -

                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                         For the Years Ended December 31
                                 (in thousands)




          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
                                     - 39 -

                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                      (in thousands, except per share data)




          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                     - 40 -

                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

    (1)  THE COMPANY
       -----------
       In  July 1999, Weeks Corporation ("Weeks") was merged with and  into
       Duke   Realty  Investments,  Inc.  ("Duke").  This  transaction   is
       hereafter  referred to as the "Weeks Merger." Upon  consummation  of
       the  Weeks Merger, the name of the company was changed to Duke-Weeks
       Realty  Corporation  ("the  Company").  Financial  information   and
       references  throughout this document are labeled "the  Company"  for
       both  pre-merger and post-merger periods as a result  of  this  name
       change. The Company's financial statements and related footnotes  as
       of  and  for the period from the merger date (July 1999) to December
       31,  1999,  give effect to the Weeks Merger which was accounted  for
       under the purchase method. See Note 3 for a more complete discussion
       of the Weeks Merger.

       The  Company owns and operates a portfolio of industrial, office and
       retail  properties in the midwestern and southeastern United States.
       The  Company  qualifies as a real estate investment  trust  ("REIT")
       under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.

       The  Company's  rental operations are conducted  through  Duke-Weeks
       Realty  Limited  Partnership ("DWRLP"), of which  the  Company  owns
       86.9%  of  the  common  units at December 31,  1999.  The  remaining
       interests in DWRLP ("Limited Partner Units") are exchangeable by the
       unitholders for shares of the Company's common stock on  a  one-for-
       one  basis. The Company conducts its service operations through Duke
       Realty  Services  Limited Partnership and Duke Construction  Limited
       Partnership,  in  which the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary,  Duke
       Services, Inc., is the sole general partner.

   (2) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
       ------------------------------------------
       PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
       ---------------------------
       The  consolidated  financial statements include the accounts  of  the
       Company  and  its  majority-owned or  controlled  subsidiaries.  The
       equity  interests in these majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries
       not  owned by the Company are reflected as minority interests in the
       consolidated  financial  statements.  All  significant  intercompany
       balances  and  transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated
       financial statements.

       RECLASSIFICATIONS
       -----------------
       Certain 1997 and 1998 balances have been reclassified to conform  to
       1999 presentation.

       REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS
       -----------------------
       Real  estate investments to be held and used are stated at the lower
       of cost less accumulated depreciation or fair value if impairment is
       identified.  Real estate investments to be disposed of are  reported
       at  the  lower of their carrying amount or fair value less  cost  to
       sell.  Buildings  and  land  improvements  are  depreciated  on  the
       straight-line method over their estimated life not to exceed 40  and
       15 years, respectively, and tenant improvement costs are depreciated
       on the straight-line method over the term of the related lease.

       All  direct  and indirect costs, including interest and real  estate
       taxes  clearly  associated  with the  development,  construction  or
       expansion  of real estate investments are capitalized as a  cost  of
       the property.  All external costs associated with the acquisition of
       real estate investments are capitalized as a cost of the property.
                                     - 41 -

                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

       The  Company  evaluates its real estate investments to be  held  and
       used  upon occurrence of significant changes in the operations,  but
       not less than annually, to assess whether any impairment indications
       are  present,  including recurring operating losses and  significant
       adverse changes in legal factors or business climate that affect the
       recovery  of  the recorded value. If any real estate  investment  is
       considered impaired, a loss is provided to reduce the carrying value
       of the property to its estimated fair value.

       The  acquisitions  of  minority interests for the  Company's  common
       shares  are recorded under the purchase method with assets  acquired
       reflected at the fair market value of the Company's common stock  on
       the  date  of  acquisition, net of the retirement  of  any  minority
       interest  liabilities.  The acquisition  amounts  are  allocated  to
       rental property based on their estimated fair values.

       The  Company has equity interests in unconsolidated partnerships and
       joint ventures which own and operate rental properties and hold land
       for  development. The equity method of accounting is used for  these
       investments  in  which  the  Company has  the  ability  to  exercise
       significant  influence  over operating and financial  policies.  Any
       difference between the carrying amount of these investments and  the
       underlying  equity in net assets is amortized to equity in  earnings
       of  unconsolidated  companies  over  the  depreciable  life  of  the
       property, generally 40 years.

       CASH EQUIVALENTS
       ----------------
       Highly  liquid investments with a maturity of three months  or  less
       when purchased are classified as cash equivalents.

       DEFERRED COSTS
       --------------
       Costs  incurred in connection with obtaining financing are amortized
       to interest expense on the straight-line method over the term of the
       related  loan.  All  direct and indirect costs associated  with  the
       rental of real estate investments owned by the Company are amortized
       over the term of the related lease. Unamortized costs are charged to
       expense  upon  the  early termination of the  lease  or  upon  early
       payment of the financing.

       REVENUES
       --------
       Rental Operations
       -----------------
       Rental  income  from leases with scheduled rental  increases  during
       their terms is recognized on a straight-line basis.

       Service Operations
       ------------------
       Management  fees  are based on a percentage of  rental  receipts  of
       properties  managed  and are recognized as the rental  receipts  are
       collected. Maintenance fees are based upon established hourly  rates
       and  are  recognized  as  the services are  performed.  Construction
       management  and development fees are generally based on a percentage
       of costs and are recognized as incurred.

                                     - 42 -
     
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

       Duke Construction Limited Partnership ("DCLP") provides construction
       contract  services  to third parties including the  development  and
       construction of properties intended for resale. Duke Realty Services
       Limited  Partnership ("DRSLP") is the sole general partner  of  DCLP
       and  the  operations  of  DCLP  are  included  in  the  consolidated
       financial  statements of the Company. The sole  limited  partner  of
       DCLP is Duke Realty Construction, Inc. ("DRCI"), of which DWRLP owns
       100%  of the preferred stock and realizes substantially all economic
       benefits  of its activities. DRCI is not a qualified REIT subsidiary
       of the Company. Accordingly, provisions for federal income taxes are
       recognized as appropriate.

       NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE
       ---------------------------
       Basic net income per common share is computed by dividing net income
       available for common shares by the weighted average number of common
       shares  outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per share  is
       computed  by  dividing  the sum of net income available  for  common
       shares and minority interest in earnings of unitholders, by the  sum
       of  the  weighted  average  number of  common  shares  and  dilutive
       potential common shares outstanding for the period.

       The  following table reconciles the components of basic and  diluted
       net income per share:
       


       The  Preferred D Series Convertible stock was anti-dilutive in  1999
       and  1998;  therefore, no conversion to common shares is assumed  in
       weighted   shares  outstanding  at  December  31,  1999  and   1998,
       respectively. Additionally, the Series G Preferred Units  (see  Note
       3)  were  anti-dilutive in 1999; therefore, no conversion to  common
       shares  is  included in weighted shares outstanding at December  31,
       1999.

       All  shares and per share amounts have been adjusted to reflect  the
       Company's two-for-one stock split in August 1997.

       FEDERAL INCOME TAXES

       As a REIT, the Company is allowed to reduce taxable income by all or
       a  portion  of  its  distributions to  shareholders.  As  deductible
       distributions have exceeded taxable income, no provision for federal
       income   taxes  has  been  made  in  the  accompanying  consolidated
       financial statements.

       Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of dividends to
       shareholders, differ from reported net income primarily  because  of
       different  depreciable  lives and bases  of  rental  properties  and
       differences   in  the  timing  of  recognition  of   earnings   upon
       disposition of properties.
                                     - 43 -
      
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

       A  summary of the taxable nature of the Company's dividends for  the
       three years ended December 31 is as follows:
       


       Dividends per share of $1.27, $1.09 and $.97 were required  for  the
       Company  to  maintain  its  REIT status  in  1999,  1998  and  1997,
       respectively.

       FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
       -----------------------------------
       The fair values of the Company's financial instruments are generally
       calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows using
       a discount rate commensurate with the risks involved and approximate
       their carrying or contract values.

       DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
       --------------------------------
       The Company may enter into derivative financial instruments such  as
       interest  rate  swaps and treasury locks in order  to  mitigate  its
       interest  rate  risk  on  a  related  financial  instrument.   These
       derivative  financial  instruments  are  designated  as  hedges  and
       deferral   accounting   is  applied  as  the  derivative   financial
       instrument reduces exposure to interest rate risk. Gains and  losses
       on  derivative  financial  instruments  are  amortized  to  interest
       expense  over  the term of the hedged instrument.  Amounts  paid  or
       received on interest rate swaps are included in interest expense.

       USE OF ESTIMATES
       ----------------
       The   preparation  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements   in
       conformity  with  generally accepted accounting principles  requires
       management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
       reported  in  the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
       notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

   (3)MERGER WITH WEEKS CORPORATION

       In    July    1999,   Weeks,   a   self-administered,   self-managed
       geographically  focused  REIT  which  operated  primarily   in   the
       southeastern  United  States, was merged  with  and  into  Duke.  In
       accordance  with  the  terms of the Weeks Merger,  each  outstanding
       Weeks common share was converted into 1.38 common shares of Duke and
       each  outstanding Weeks Series A preferred share was converted  into
       one  comparable  share  of a new class of  the  Company's  Series  F
       cumulative  redeemable  preferred shares (the  "Series  F  Preferred
       Shares").  As  a  result, 27.4 million common shares  and  6,000,000
       Series  F  Preferred  Shares were issued to Weeks'  shareholders  in
       exchange  for  all  of  the outstanding Weeks common  and  preferred
       shares.

                                     - 44 -
      
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

       In  accordance  with the terms of the Weeks Merger, DWRLP  converted
       1,400,000 Weeks 8% Series C cumulative redeemable preferred  limited
       partnership   interests  into  1,400,000  8%  Series  G   cumulative
       redeemable  preferred limited partnership interests (the  "Series  G
       Preferred Units"). The Series G Preferred Units were recorded  at  a
       value  of $35,000,000 based upon the estimated fair market value  at
       the  date  of  the merger announcement and are recorded in  minority
       interest. The Series G Preferred Units have a liquidation preference
       of $25.00 per preferred unit and are redeemable by DWRLP on or after
       November  6,  2003,  at a redemption price of $25.00  per  preferred
       unit.  In  combination with the issuance of the Series  G  Preferred
       Units,  the  Company issued a warrant that entitles  its  holder  to
       purchase either 1,444,486 shares of company common stock at a  price
       of  $24.23  per share, or 1,400,000 shares of preferred stock  at  a
       price  of  $25.00  per  share.  The Series  G  Preferred  Units  are
       automatically redeemed upon the exercise of the warrant. The warrant
       has  a  perpetual  term  unless the Series  G  Preferred  Units  are
       redeemed by DWRLP, in which case the warrant expires within 30  days
       of redemption.

       DWRLP  also  converted 2,600,000 Weeks 8.625%  Series  D  cumulative
       redeemable  preferred  limited partnership interest  into  2,600,000
       8.625%  Series H cumulative redeemable preferred limited partnership
       interests  (the "Series H Preferred Units"). The Series H  Preferred
       Units  were  recorded  at  a  value of $67,955,000  based  upon  the
       estimated  fair market value at the date of the merger  announcement
       and  are recorded in minority interest. The Series H Preferred Units
       have  a liquidation preference of $25.00 per preferred unit and  are
       redeemable at the option of DWRLP on or after November 12, 2003,  at
       a redemption price of $25.00 per preferred unit.

       DWRLP  issued  10,144,424 common units to Weeks limited  partnership
       unitholders  at  a rate of 1.38 DWRLP common units  for  each  Weeks
       limited  partnership  unit  outstanding.  These  common  units  were
       recorded  as  minority interest at a value of $220.6  million  based
       upon  the  estimated  fair market value at the date  of  the  merger
       announcement.

       The  total  purchase  price of Weeks aggregated  approximately  $1.9
       billion,  which included the assumption of the outstanding debt  and
       liabilities  of Weeks of approximately $775 million based  upon  the
       estimated  fair  market  value  at  the  date  of  the  merger.  The
       transaction  was structured as a tax-free merger and  was  accounted
       for under the purchase method.

       The  following summarized pro forma unaudited information represents
       the  combined  historical operating results of Weeks and  Duke  with
       the  appropriate purchase accounting adjustments, assuming the Weeks
       Merger  had  occurred  on January 1, 1998. The pro  forma  financial
       information  presented  is not necessarily indicative  of  what  the
       Company's  actual operating results would have been  had  Weeks  and
       Duke  constituted a single entity during such periods (in thousands,
       except per share amounts):

                                     - 45 -
      
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
     

  (4)   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
       --------------------------
       The  Company  provides management, leasing, construction  and  other
       tenant  related services to partnerships in which certain  executive
       officers  have continuing ownership interests. The Company was  paid
       fees  totaling $2.4 million, $2.3 million and $3.3 million for  such
       services  in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Management  believes
       the terms for such services are equivalent to those available in the
       market.  The  Company  has  an  option  to  purchase  the  executive
       officers' interest in each of these properties which expires October
       2003. The option price of each property was established at the  date
       the options were granted.

       At  December  31,  1999,  other  assets  included  outstanding  loan
       advances  totaling $3.45 million due from a related party,  under  a
       $5.7 million demand loan agreement. The loan bears interest at LIBOR
       plus  2.10% and is secured by real estate assets held by the related
       entity, for which the Company has arrangements to acquire in  future
       periods.  Interest earned under the agreement and  included  in  the
       accompanying consolidated statements of operations totaled  $120,852
       in the year ended December 31, 1999.

   (5)  INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED COMPANIES
      ----------------------------------------
       Combined summarized financial information of the companies which are
       accounted for by the equity method as of December 31, 1999 and  1998
       and  for  the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997  are  as
       follows (in thousands):
       

                                     - 46 -
      
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

 (6) REAL ESTATE HELD FOR SALE
    -------------------------
     The  Company  has  an  active  sales  program  through  which  it   is
     continually pursuing favorable opportunities to dispose of real estate
     assets  that  no  longer meet long-term investment objectives  of  the
     Company  in  order  to  redeploy capital. At December  31,  1999,  the
     Company  had  seven  office and six industrial  properties  comprising
     approximately  3.5  million  square  feet  held  for  sale.  Of  these
     properties, five build-to-suit office and two build-to-suit industrial
     properties were under development at December 31, 1999. Net  operating
     income  (defined  as total property revenues, less property  expenses,
     which  include  real  estate taxes, repairs and maintenance,  property
     management,   utilities,  insurance  and  other   expenses)   of   the
     properties  held for sale for the years ended December 31, 1999,  1998
     and  1997  is  approximately  $7.5 million,  $5.7  million,  and  $4.0
     million, respectively. Net book value of the properties held for  sale
     at  December 31, 1999 is approximately $153.6 million. There can be no
     assurance that such properties held for sale will be sold.

 (7)  INDEBTEDNESS
     ------------
          Indebtedness  at  December  31  consists  of  the  following  (in
          thousands):
     


     As  of  December  31,  1999, the $528.7 million  of  secured  debt  is
     collateralized  by  rental properties with a  net  carrying  value  of
     $835.3 million.
     

     Both  lines  of credit are used to fund development and acquisition  of
     additional rental properties and to provide working capital.

     Effective July 2, 1999, the interest rate on the $450 million  line  of
     credit  was  adjusted from LIBOR + .80% to LIBOR + .70%.  Additionally,
     the  $450 million line of credit allows the Company an option to obtain
     borrowings from the financial institutions that participate in the line
     of  credit  at  rates lower than the stated interest rate,  subject  to
     certain  restrictions. Amounts outstanding on the  line  of  credit  at
     December 31, 1999 are at LIBOR +.70%.

     The  $300  million  line  of  credit was obtained  July  2,  1999,  in
     connection with the Weeks Merger (see Note 3).

                                     - 47 -

     
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     In July 1999 in conjunction with the Weeks Merger, the Company assumed
     an  $85 million unsecured syndicated bank term loan (the "Term Loan").
     Interest  accrues on the Term Loan at LIBOR + 1.10% and the Term  Loan
     matures  on December 31, 2001. The Company also assumed three interest
     rate  swap  agreements  with three commercial banks  that  effectively
     changes  the interest costs on the entire $85 million Term  Loan  from
     its  variable rate to a fixed rate. The interest rate swap agreements,
     with notational principal amounts of $35 million, $25 million and  $25
     million, mature on December 31, 2001, and effectively convert interest
     costs  on the Term Loan to a fixed rate of approximately 6.1%  through
     maturity.  The estimated fair market value of the swap agreements  was
     $2.65 million at December 31, 1999.

     At  December  31, 1999, scheduled amortization and maturities  of  all
     indebtedness  for the next five years and thereafter  are  as  follows
     (in thousands):
     

     Cash  paid  for  interest in 1999, 1998, and 1997 was $100.3  million,
     $63.6   million  and  $41.9  million,  respectively.  Total   interest
     capitalized in 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $26.0 million, $8.5 million and
     $6.0 million, respectively.

 (8)SEGMENT REPORTING
     -----------------
     The  Company is engaged in four operating segments, the ownership  and
     rental  of office, industrial, and retail real estate investments  and
     the  providing  of  various  real estate  services  such  as  property
     management,   maintenance,  landscaping,  leasing,  and   construction
     management  to third-party property owners ("Service Operations).  The
     Company's reportable segments offer different products or services and
     are  managed  separately  because each  requires  different  operating
     strategies   and   management  expertise.  There   are   no   material
     intersegment sales or transfers.

    Non-segment  revenue to reconcile to total revenue consists  mainly  of
    equity  in earnings of joint ventures. Non- segment assets to reconcile
    to  total  assets consists of corporate assets including cash, deferred
    financing costs and investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries.

    The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described
    in Note 1.

    The Company assesses and measures segment operating results based on  a
    performance  measure referred to as Funds From Operations ("FFO").  The
    National  Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts defines  FFO  as
    net  income or loss, excluding gains or losses from debt restructurings
    and sales of depreciated property, plus operating property depreciation
    and   amortization   and   adjustments  for   minority   interest   and
    unconsolidated  companies on the same basis. FFO is not  a  measure  of
    operating  results or cash flows from operating activities as  measured
    by   generally  accepted  accounting  principles,  is  not  necessarily
    indicative  of  cash available to fund cash needs  and  should  not  be
    considered  an  alternative to cash flows as a  measure  of  liquidity.
    Interest  expense and other non-property specific revenues and expenses
    are  not  allocated to individual segments in determining the Company's
    performance measure.
                                     - 48 -

     
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

    The  revenues, FFO and assets for each of the reportable  segments  are
    summarized as follows for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998,  and
    1997:
    

 (9)  Leasing Activity
     ---------------
     Future minimum rents due to the Company under non-cancelable operating
     leases at December 31, 1999 are as follows (in thousands):
     

                                     - 49 -

     
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     In addition to minimum rents, certain leases require reimbursements of
     specified  operating expenses which amounted to $85.1  million,  $56.5
     million, and $33.8 million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
     and 1997, respectively.

 (10)  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
     ----------------------
     The  Company maintains a 401(k) plan for the benefit of its  full-time
     employees.  The  Company matches the employees'  contributions  up  to
     three  percent  of  the  employees' salary and may  also  make  annual
     discretionary contributions. Total expense recognized by  the  Company
     was  $2.3 million, $1.5 million and $882,000 for the years ended 1999,
     1998 and 1997, respectively.

     The  Company makes contributions to a contributory health and  welfare
     plan   as   necessary   to  fund  claims  not  covered   by   employee
     contributions. Total expense recognized by the Company related to this
     plan  was  $2.7 million, $2.2 million and $1.2 million for 1999,  1998
     and 1997, respectively. Included in total expense is an estimate based
     on  historical  experience of the effect of claims  incurred  but  not
     reported as of year-end.

  (11) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
     -------------------
     The  Company periodically accesses the public equity markets  to  fund
     the  development and acquisition of additional rental properties.  The
     proceeds  of these offerings are contributed to DWRLP in exchange  for
     additional interest in the partnership.

     The  following series of preferred stock is outstanding as of December
     31, 1999 (in thousands, except percentages):
     

     All series of preferred shares require cumulative distributions,  have
     no  stated maturity date, and the redemption price of each series  may
     only be paid from the proceeds of other capital shares of the Company,
     which may include other classes or series of preferred shares.

     The Preferred Series D shares are convertible at a conversion rate  of
     9.3677 common shares for each preferred share outstanding.

     The  dividend rate on the Preferred B Series shares increases to 9.99%
     after September 12, 2012.

     Under  a  shareholder  rights plan ("Rights Agreement"),  each  common
     shareholder has one right for each share of common stock prior to  the
     occurrence of certain triggering events which would in effect  execute
     the  Rights Agreement. Upon the occurrence of such events, each  right
     entitles  the registered holder to purchase from the Company one  one-
     thousandth  of  a share of Series C Junior Preferred Stock  which  has
     substantially  the same economic attributes and carries  substantially
     the  same  voting rights as one share of common stock. As of  December
     31, 1999, no events have triggered execution of the Rights Agreement.
                                     - 50 -

     
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     In  August 1998, members of management and unaffiliated members of the
     Company's  Board of Directors purchased approximately $37  million  of
     common  stock  of  the Company. In November 1999,  an  additional  $32
     million of common stock was purchased by management and members of the
     Board  of Directors in 1999. Both purchases were financed by five-year
     personal  loans at market interest rates from a financial institution.
     Participants  are  personally responsible for repaying  the  interest,
     principal  balance, and other obligations as defined in the  Executive
     and  Senior  Officer  Stock  Purchase Plan.  As  a  condition  of  the
     financing  agreement with the financial institution, the  Company  has
     guaranteed repayment of principal, interest and other obligations  for
     each participant, but is fully indemnified by the participants. In the
     opinion  of  management, it is not probable that the Company  will  be
     required to satisfy this guarantee.

(12) STOCK BASED COMPENSATION
     ------------------------
     The  Company has eight stock based compensation plans, including fixed
     stock  option plans and performance based stock plans. The Company  is
     authorized  to  issue up to 10,042,000 shares of  common  stock  under
     these  plans.  The  Company applies APB Opinion  No.  25  and  related
     interpretations   in  accounting  for  its  plans.   Accordingly,   no
     compensation cost has been recognized for its fixed stock option plans
     as  the  exercise price of each option equals the market price of  the
     Company's stock on the date of grant. The Company charges compensation
     costs  against  its income for its performance based stock  plans.  If
     compensation cost for the Company's fixed stock option plans had  been
     determined  consistent with FASB Statement No. 123, the Company's  net
     income and net income per share for the years ended December 31  would
     have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:
     

     The  effects  of  applying FASB Statement No. 123 in  this  pro  forma
     disclosure  are  not indicative of future amounts. The Statement  does
     not  apply  to awards prior to 1995, and additional awards  in  future
     years are anticipated.

     The  fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant
     using  the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model  with  the  following
     assumptions used: Dividend yield of 7.0%, 6.0% and 5.8% for 1999, 1998
     and  1997, respectively; expected volatility of 20.1%, 19.9% and 19.1%
     for  1999,  1998  and 1997, respectively; weighted  average  risk-free
     interest rates of 4.9%, 5.7%, and 6.4%,for 1999, 1998 and 1997 grants,
     respectively; and weighted average expected lives of 6.5 years for all
     grants.

     Fixed Stock Option Plans
     ------------------------
     The  Company had two fixed stock option plans as of December 31, 1998.
     In  1999,  the  Company adopted the 1999 Directors' Stock  Option  and
     Dividend  Increase  Unit  Plan and the 1999 Salary  Replacement  Stock
     Option  and Dividend Increase Unit Plan.  In addition, upon the merger
     of  Weeks into the Company, the Company assumed all obligations  under
     two Weeks stock incentive plans.
                                     - 51 -

     
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     A  summary of the status of the Company's six fixed stock option plans
     as  of  December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, and changes during the years
     ended on those dates is as follows:
     

     The  options  outstanding at December 31, 1999, under the fixed  stock
     option  plans  have a range of exercise prices from $11.87  to  $24.44
     with  a  weighted  average exercise price of  $19.00  and  a  weighted
     average   remaining  contractual  life  of  7.05  years.  The  options
     exercisable  at  December 31, 1999, have a weighted  average  exercise
     price of $16.64.

     Each  option's maximum term is ten years.  Excluding the  Weeks  plans
     and  with other limited exceptions, options vest at 20% per year,  or,
     if  earlier, upon the death, retirement or disability of the  optionee
     or  a  change  in control of the Company.  The vesting period  of  the
     Weeks plans was generally 33 1/3% per year.

     Performance Based Stock Plans
     -----------------------------
     The  Company  has  two types of performance based equity  compensation
     plans:  Dividend Increase Unit Plans ("DIU Plans") and  a  Shareholder
     Value Plan. Under the DIU Plans, Dividend Increase Units ("DIUs")  are
     granted to key employees and directors. The value of DIUs exercised by
     participants  is payable in Company stock.  The maximum  term  of  all
     DIUs granted is ten years.

     The  value of each DIU when exercised is equal to the increase in  the
     Company's annualized dividend per share from the date of grant to  the
     date  of exercise, divided by the "dividend yield." Dividend yield  is
     the  annualized  dividend per share divided by the  market  price  per
     share  of  the Company's common stock at the date of grant.  DIUs  are
     generally subject to a 20% per year vesting schedule.

     Under the 1995 Shareholder Value Plan (the "SV Plan"), the Company may
     grant  awards in specified dollar amounts to key employees. The  award
     is  payable  to the employee on the third anniversary of the  date  of
     grant.  One-half  of  the  award is payable in  common  stock  of  the
     Company, and one-half is payable in cash. The initial dollar amount of
     each  award  granted under the SV Plan is adjusted upward or  downward
     based  on  a  comparison of the Company's cumulative total shareholder
     return  for the three-year period as compared to the cumulative  total
     return of the S&P 500 and the NAREIT Equity REIT Total Return indices.
     The award is not payable upon the employee's termination of employment
     for any reason other than retirement, death, disability or a change in
     control of the Company.

                                     - 52 -

     
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     The  Company  believes that it is not possible to reasonably  estimate
     the  fair value of the common stock to be issued under the performance
     based  stock  compensation plans and, therefore, computes compensation
     cost for these plans based on the intrinsic value of the awards as  if
     they  were  exercised at the end of each applicable reporting  period.
     The  compensation cost that has been charged against income for  these
     plans  was  $5.9 million , $4.1 million , and $2.5 million  for  1999,
     1998, and 1997, respectively.

(13) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
     -----------------------------
     The   Company  has  guaranteed  $93  million  of  mortgage  loans   of
     unconsolidated  companies of which the Company is a 50%  partner.  The
     mortgage  loans  are  collateralized by  rental  properties  of  joint
     ventures  which have a net carrying value substantially in  excess  of
     the  mortgage loans. The Company does not anticipate that it  will  be
     required to satisfy these guarantees.

     The Company has entered into agreements, subject to the completion  of
     due  diligence  requirements, resolution of certain contingencies  and
     completion of customary closing conditions, for the future acquisition
     of  land  totaling  $34.9 million. The acquisitions are  scheduled  to
     close  periodically  through  2002 and will  be  paid  for  through  a
     combination of cash and DWRLP Limited Partner Unit issuance.
                                     - 53 -


                          DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

                                     - 71 -
     
                          DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

                                     - 71 -
                          DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

                                     - 71 -
                          DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

                                     - 71 -
                          DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

(1) Costs capitalized subsequent to acquisition include decreases for purchase
    price reduction payments received and land sales or takedowns.

(2) Depreciation of real estate is computed using the straight-line method over
    40 years for buildings, 15 years for land improvements and shorter
    periods based on lease terms (generally 3 to 10 years) for  tenant
    improvements.

(3) Building was placed in service in December 1999.

(4) Land leases not depreciated.

(5) Building is not being depreciated as it is designated as held for sale
    by the Company.



                                     - 72 -
 
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 3.  EXHIBITS
     ---------
     Certain  exhibits  required by Item 601 of Regulation  S-K  have  been
     filed with previous reports by the Company and are herein incorporated
     by reference thereto.

NUMBER                             DESCRIPTION
- ------                             -----------
2.1  Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 28, 1999, by and
     between Duke-Weeks Realty Corporation (f/k/a Duke Realty Investments,
     Inc.) and Weeks Corporation incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1
     of Duke Realty Investments, Inc.'s Form 8-K, dated February 28, 1999.

2.2  Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 28, 1999, by and
     between Duke-Weeks Realty Limited Partnership (f/k/a Duke Realty
     Limited Partnership) and Weeks Realty, L.P. incorporated by
     reference to exhibit 10.2 of Duke Realty Investments, Inc.'s Form
     8-K, dated February 28, 1999.

3.1  Second Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Duke-Weeks Realty
     Corporation, incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the Current
     Report of Duke-Weeks Realty Corporation on Form 8-K filed July 16, 1999.

3.2  Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of Duke-Weeks Realty Corporation,
     incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report of Duke-
     Weeks Realty Corporation on Form 8-K filed July 16, 1999.

4.1  Indenture between Duke-Weeks Realty Limited Partnership (f/k/a Duke Realty
     Limited Partnership) and The First National Bank of Chicago, Trustee,
     incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Duke-Weeks Realty
     Corporation (f/k/a Duke Realty Investments, Inc.) Current Report on
     Form 8-K dated September 22, 1995.

4.2  First Supplement to Indenture, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
     the Duke-Weeks Realty Corporation (f/k/a Duke Realty Investments, Inc.)
     Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 22, 1995.

4.3  Second Supplement to Indenture, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to
     the Duke-Weeks Realty Limited Partnership (f/k/a Duke Realty Limited
     Partnership) Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 12, 1996.

4.4  Third Supplement to Indenture, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to
     the Duke-Weeks Realty Limited Partnership (f/k/a Duke Realty Limited
     Partnership) Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 20, 1997.

4.5  Fourth Supplement to Indenture, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to
     the Duke-Weeks Realty Corporation (f/k/a Duke Realty Investments, Inc.)
     Form S-4 dated May 4, 1999 (Merger Registration Statement).

4.6  Fifth Supplement to Indenture, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to
     the Duke-Weeks Realty Limited Partnership (f/k/a Duke Realty Limited
     Partnership) Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 1, 1998.
                                     - 73 -

     
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

4.7  Sixth Supplement to Indenture, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to
     the Duke-Weeks Realty Limited Partnership (f/k/a Duke Realty Limited
     Partnership) Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 12, 1999.

4.8  Seventh Supplement to Indenture, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to
     the Duke-Weeks Realty Limited Partnership (f/k/a Duke Realty Limited
     Partnership) Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 29, 1999.

4.9  Eighth Supplement to Indenture, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to
     the Duke-Weeks Realty Limited Partnership (f/k/a Duke Realty Limited
     Partnership) Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 15, 1999.

4.10 Indenture between Weeks Realty, L.P. and State Street Bank and Trust
     Company, incorporated by reference to the Weeks Realty, L.P. Form 8-A,
     filed on August 3, 1998.

4.11 First Supplement to Indenture, incorporated by reference to the Weeks
     Realty, L.P. Form 8-A, filed on August 2, 1998.

10.1 Second amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Duke-Weeks
     Realty Limited Partnership, incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to
     the Current Report of Duke-Weeks Realty Limited Partnership on Form 8-K
     filed July 16, 1999.

10.2 Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Duke Realty
     Services Limited Partnership (the "Services Partnership") is incorporated
     herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
     for the year ended December 31, 1995.

10.3 Promissory Note of the Services Partnership is incorporated herein by
     reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1993 Registration Statement.

10.4 Duke Realty Services Limited Partnership 1993 Stock Option Plan is
     incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the 1993 Registration
     Statement.*

10.5 Acquisition Option Agreement relating to certain properties not contributed
     to the Operating Partnership by Duke Associates (the "Excluded Properties")
     is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the 1993
     Registration Statement.

10.6 Management Agreement relating to the Excluded Properties is incorporated
     herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the 1993 Registration Statement.

10.7 Indemnification Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
     10.11 to the 1993 Registration Statement.

10.8 1995 Key Employee Stock Option Plan is incorporated herein by reference to
     Exhibit 10.13 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
     31, 1995.*

10.9 1995 Dividend Increase Unit Plan is incorporated herein by reference to
     Exhibit 10.14 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
     December 31, 1995.*
                                     - 74 -

     
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES


10.10 1995 Shareholder Value Plan is incorporated herein by reference to
      Exhibit 10.15 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
      December 31, 1995.*

10.11 1998 Shareholder Rights Agreement is incorporated herein by reference
      to Exhibit 7.1 to the Form  8-K dated July 31, 1998.

10.12 1998 Duke Realty Severance Pay Plan is incorporated herein by
      reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the Annual Report Form 10-I dated March
      31, 1999. *

10.13 1999 Directors Stock Option and Dividend Increase Unit Plan is
      incorporated by reference to Annex F to the Prospectus in the Merger
      Registration Statement. *

10.14 1999 Salary Replacement Stock Option and Dividend Increase Unit Plan
      is incorporated by reference to Annex G to the Prospectus in the Merger
      Registration Statement.*

10.15 Revolving Credit Agreement dated July 2, 1999, by and among Duke-Weeks
      Realty Limited Partnership as borrower, Duke-Weeks Realty Corporation as
      General Partner and guarantor, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc. and Wachovia
      Securities, Inc. ("Wachovia") as lead arrangers and joint book runners,
      Wells Fargo Bank, National Association ("Wells Fargo"), as co-arranger,
      the First National Bank of Chicago as lender and administrative agent,
      Wells Fargo and Wachovia as co-syndication agents, First Union National
      Bank and PNC Bank as co-agents and lenders, is hereby incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed
      March 17, 2000.

10.16 Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement by and  among
      Duke-Weeks Realty Limited Partnership(the "Borrower"), Duke-Weeks Realty
      Corporation (the "General Partner" and the "Guarantor"), First Chicago
      Capital Markets, Inc. ("FCCM") and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association
      ("Wells Fargo") (collectively, the "Arrangers"), The First National Bank
      of Chicago ("First Chicago") as a Lender and not individually, but as
      "Administrative Agent", Wells Fargo as Syndication Agent, PNC Bank,
      National Association ("PNC"), as Documentation Agent, Commerzbank A.G.
      Chicago Branch ("Commerzbank") and Bank of America National Trust and
      Savings Association ("Bank of America") as Co-Agents, is hereby
      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Form 8-K
      filed March 17, 2000.

11.1 Statement of Computation of Ratios Earnings to Fixed Charges.

11.2 Statement of Computation of Ratios Earnings to Debt Service.

21.  List of Subsidiaries of Registrant.

23.  Consent of KPMG LLP.

24.  Executed powers of attorney of certain directors.

27.  Financial Data Schedule

99.1 Selected Quarterly Financial Information
                                  - 75 -

    
                 DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

    * Represents management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.



    The  Company will furnish to any security holder, upon written request,
    copies of any exhibit incorporated by reference, for a fee of 15  cents
    per  page,  to  cover  the costs of furnishing  the  exhibits.  Written
    request  should  include a representation that the  person  making  the
    request was the beneficial owner of securities entitled to vote at  the
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

(B)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     None

                                    -    76 -

     
                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
     signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION


          March   31, 2000                   By:  /s/  Thomas L. Hefner
          ------------------------           ----------------------------
                                              Thomas L. Hefner
                                              Chairman of the Board,
                                              President and Chief Executive
                                              Officer


                                             By:  /s/  Darell E. Zink, Jr.
                                             ------------------------------
                                              Darell E. Zink, Jr.
                                              Executive Vice President and
                                              Chief Financial Officer
                                             (Principal Financial Officer)


                                             By:  /s/  Dennis D. Oklak
                                             ------------------------------
                                              Dennis D. Oklak
                                              Executive Vice President and
                                              Chief Administrative Officer
                                             (Principal Accounting Officer)

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
     this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
     of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

          Signature                Date                Title
          ---------                ----                -----

     /s/ Thomas L. Hefner *     3/31/00      Chairman of the Board,
     ----------------------     -------
     Thomas L. Hefner                         President and Chief Executive
                                              Officer and Director

     /s/ Darell E. Zink, Jr.*   3/31/00      Executive Vice President and Chief
     -----------------------    -------
     Darell E. Zink, Jr.                     Financial Officer and Director

     /s/ Dennis D. Oklak *      3/31/00      Executive Vice President and
     -----------------------    -------
     Dennis D. Oklak                         Chief Administrative Officer
                                     - 77 -
     


     /s/ Barrington H. Branch*             3/31/00          Director
     -------------------------             -------
     Barrington H. Branch

      /s/ Geoffrey Button *                3/31/00          Director
     -------------------------             -------
     Geoffrey Button

     /s/ William Cavanaugh, III*           3/31/00          Director
     ---------------------------           -------
     William Cavanaugh, III

     /s/ Ngaire E. Cuneo *                3/31/00           Director
     ----------------------               -------
     Ngaire E. Cuneo

     /s/ Charles R. Eitel*                3/31/00           Director
     ----------------------               -------
     Charles R. Eitel

     /s/ Howard L. Feinsand *             3/31/00           Director
     -----------------------              -------
     Howard L. Feinsand

     /s/ L. Ben Lytle *                   3/31/00           Director
     ------------------------             --------
     L. Ben Lytle

     /s/ William O. McCoy *               3/31/00           Director
     ------------------------             -------
     William O. McCoy

     /s/ John W. Nelley, Jr. *            3/31/00               Director
     ------------------------             -------
     John W. Nelley, Jr.

     /s/ James E. Rogers *                3/31/00               Director
     ------------------------             -------
     James E. Rogers

     /s/ Thomas D. Senkbeil *             3/31/00               Director
     ------------------------             -------
     Thomas D. Senkbeil

     /s/ Jay J. Strauss  *                3/31/00               Director
     -------------------------            -------
     Jay J. Strauss

     /s/ A. Ray Weeks, Jr. *              3/31/00               Director
     -------------------------            -------
     A. Ray Weeks, Jr.




     * By Dennis D. Oklak, Attorney-in-Fact  /s/  Dennis D. Oklak
                                             ---------------------
                                     - 78 -


