10-K


w17856e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005

Commission file number 1-12672

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Maryland

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

77-0404318

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

Eisenhower Avenue, Suite 300

Alexandria, Virginia 22314

(Address of principal executive office, including zip code)

(703) 329-6300

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

8.70% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,

par value $.01 per share

(Title of each class)

New York Stock Exchange, Pacific Exchange

New York Stock Exchange, Pacific Exchange

(Name of each exchange on which registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding twelve (12) months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past ninety (90) days.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Exchange registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

o

No

x

The aggregate market value of the Registrant’s Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, held by
nonaffiliates of the Registrant, as of June 30, 2005 was $5,921,051,876.

The number of shares of the Registrant’s Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, outstanding as of
January 31, 2006 was 73,998,786.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s Proxy Statement for the 2006 annual meeting of
stockholders, a definitive copy of which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the year
end of the year covered by this Form 10-K, are incorporated by reference herein as portions of Part
III of this Form 10-K.


PAGE

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS


ITEM 1a.

RISK FACTORS


ITEM 1b.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS


ITEM 2.

COMMUNITIES


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS


ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED

STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY

SECURITIES


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL

CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


ITEM 7a.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT

MARKET RISK


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS

ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE


ITEM 9a.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES


ITEM 9b.

OTHER INFORMATION


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT


ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS

AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS


ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS


ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


SIGNATURES


PART I

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our actual results
could differ materially from those set forth in each forward-looking statement. Certain factors
that might cause such a difference are discussed in this report, included in the section entitled
“Forward-Looking Statements” on page 61 of this Form 10-K. You should also review Item 1a., “Risk
Factors,” for a discussion of various risks that could adversely affect us.

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

General

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. is a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated as a real
estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax purposes. We engage in the development,
redevelopment, acquisition, ownership and operation of multifamily communities in high
barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. These barriers-to-entry generally include a
difficult and lengthy entitlement process with local jurisdictions and dense urban or suburban
areas where zoned and entitled land is in limited supply. Our markets are located in the
Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern California regions
of the United States. We focus on these markets because we believe that, long term, the limited
new supply of apartment homes and lower housing affordability in these markets will result in
larger increases in cash flows relative to other markets over an entire business cycle. In
addition to increasing the rental revenues of our operating assets, we believe these market
attributes will increase the value of our operating assets and enable us to create additional value
through the development and selective acquisition of multifamily housing.

At January 31, 2006, we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in:

•

140 operating apartment communities containing 40,939 apartment homes in ten states and
the District of Columbia, of which two communities containing 506 apartment homes were
under reconstruction;

•

15 communities under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 4,062
apartment homes when completed; and

•

rights to develop an additional 47 communities that, if developed in the manner
expected, will contain an estimated 12,495 apartment homes.

We generally obtain ownership in an apartment community by developing a new community on vacant
land or by acquiring and either repositioning or redeveloping an existing community. In selecting
sites for development, redevelopment or acquisition, we favor locations that are near expanding
employment centers and convenient to recreation areas, entertainment, shopping and dining.

Our real estate investments consist of the following reportable segments: Established Communities,
Other Stabilized Communities and Development/Redevelopment Communities. Established Communities
are generally operating communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes and that
were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior
year. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other operating communities that have
stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the current year, but that had
not achieved stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year. Development/ Redevelopment
Communities consist of communities that are under construction, communities where substantial
redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current year and communities under
lease-up. A more detailed description of these segments and other related information can be found
in Note 9, “Segment Reporting,” of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of
this report.

Our principal financial goal is to increase long-term stockholder value by successfully and
cost-effectively developing, redeveloping, acquiring, owning and operating high-quality communities
in our selected markets that contain features and amenities desired by residents, as well as by
providing our residents with efficient and effective service. To help fulfill this goal, we
regularly (i) monitor our investment allocation by geographic market and product type, (ii)
develop, redevelop and acquire apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets with growing
or high potential for demand and high for-sale housing costs, (iii) selectively sell apartment
communities that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when opportunities are presented to
realize a portion of the value


created through our investment and redeploy the proceeds from those
sales, and (iv) endeavor to maintain a capital
structure that is aligned with our business risks such that we maintain continuous access to
cost-effective capital. Our long-term strategy is to more deeply penetrate the high barrier-to-entry
markets in our chosen regions with a broad range of products and services and an intense focus on
our customer. A substantial majority of our current communities are upscale, which generally
command among the highest rents in their markets. However, we also pursue the ownership and
operation of apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and price points,
consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products and services.

During the three years ended December 31, 2005, we acquired nine apartment communities, disposed of
25 apartment communities, and completed the development of 21 apartment communities and the
redevelopment of four apartment communities. In anticipation of continued improvement in apartment
fundamentals and to help position us for future growth, we increased our construction
volume during 2005 (as measured by total projected capitalized cost at completion) and continued to secure new
development opportunities, including the acquisition of land for future development.
We also acquired communities that we believe we can redevelop or reposition, or take
advantage of market cycle timing and improved operating performance,
to create value. These communities were acquired through the
institutional discretionary investment fund that we manage and own an
interest in. As a result of strong capital flows to the industry and the strength of the condominium market, we also
continued to dispose of assets at prices that enabled significant realized gains on cost.

In 2006, we expect our construction underway to exceed 2005 levels, and we will continue to
selectively acquire additional communities through the Fund. We anticipate additional asset sales,
but at reduced levels compared to 2005. The level of development, acquisition and disposition
activity, however, is heavily influenced by capital market conditions, including prevailing
interest rates. A further discussion of our development, redevelopment, disposition, acquisition,
property management and related strategies follows.

Development Strategy.

We carefully select land for development and follow established procedures
that we believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. As one of the largest
developers of multifamily apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United
States, we identify development opportunities through local market presence and access to local
market information achieved through our regional offices. In addition to our principal executive
office in Alexandria, Virginia, we also maintain regional offices and administrative or specialty
offices in or near the following cities:

After selecting a target site, we usually negotiate for the right to acquire the site either
through an option or a long-term conditional contract. Options and long-term conditional contracts
generally enable us to acquire the target site shortly before the start of construction, which
reduces development-related risks and preserves capital. However, we will acquire and hold
land when business conditions warrant. Due to increased competition for land based on current
market conditions, we have, at times, acquired land earlier in the development cycle or acquired
land zoned for uses other than residential with the potential for rezoning. After we acquire land,
we generally shift our focus to construction. Except for certain mid-rise and high-rise apartment
communities where we may elect to use third-party general contractors or construction managers, we
act as our own general contractor and construction manager. We generally perform these functions
directly (and not through a subsidiary) both for ourselves and for the joint ventures and
partnerships of which we are a member or a partner. We believe this enables us to achieve higher
construction quality, greater control over construction schedules and significant cost savings.
Our development, property management and construction teams monitor construction progress to ensure
high-quality workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the
leasing and operating phase.


As competition for desirable development opportunities has increased in recent years, we have
engaged in more complicated development pursuits. For example, at times we have acquired and may
in the future acquire existing
commercial buildings with the intent to pursue rezoning, tenant terminations or expirations and
demolition of the existing structures. Generally, while we hold these buildings for development,
the revenue from these operations, net of any operating expenses, is accounted for as a reduction
in our investment in the development pursuit and not as net income. We have also participated, and
may in the future participate, in master planned or other large multi-use developments where we
commit to build infrastructure (such as roads) to be used by other participants or commit to act as
construction manager or general contractor in building structures or spaces for third parties (such
as municipal garages or parks). Costs we incur in connection with these activities may be
accounted for as additional invested capital in the community or we may earn fee income for
providing these services. Particularly with large scale, urban in-fill developments, we may engage
in significant environmental remediation efforts to prepare a site for construction.

Throughout this report, the term “development” is used to refer to the entire property development
cycle, including pursuit of zoning approvals, procurement of architectural and engineering designs
and the construction process. References to “construction” refer to the actual construction of the
property, which is only one element of the development cycle.

Redevelopment Strategy

. When we undertake the redevelopment of a community, our goal is to
generally renovate and/or rebuild an existing community so that our total investment is generally
below replacement cost and the community is one of the highest quality apartment communities or
best rental values for an apartment community in its local area. We have established procedures to
minimize both the cost and risks of redevelopment. Our redevelopment teams, which include key
redevelopment, construction and property management personnel, monitor redevelopment progress. We
believe we achieve significant cost savings by acting as our own general contractor. More
importantly, this helps to ensure high-quality design and workmanship and a smooth and timely
transition into the lease-up and restabilization phase.

Throughout this report, the term “redevelopment” is used to refer to the entire redevelopment
cycle, including planning and procurement of architectural and engineering designs, budgeting and
actual renovation work. The actual renovation work is referred to as “reconstruction,” which is
only one element of the redevelopment cycle.

Disposition Strategy.

We sell assets when market conditions are favorable and redeploy the
proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and acquire communities and to rebalance our
portfolio across geographic regions. This also allows us to realize a portion of the value created
through our investment, and provides additional liquidity. We are then able to redeploy the net
proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising that amount of capital externally by issuing debt
or equity securities. When we decide to sell a community, we generally solicit competing bids from
unrelated parties for these individual assets and consider the sales price of each proposal.

Acquisition Strategy.

Our core competencies in development and redevelopment discussed above allow
us to be selective in the acquisitions we target. From time to time, in order to achieve rapid
penetration into markets that are generally supply constrained and in which we desire an increased
presence, or to help us achieve our desired product mix or rebalance our portfolio, we have
acquired existing apartment communities. In 2005 we closed on the Fund, which during its
investment period (ending no later than March 2008) will be our exclusive vehicle for acquiring
apartment communities, subject to certain exceptions. Over the next several years, we expect to
increase our acquisition activity through the Fund, focusing in particular on communities in our
markets that can benefit from redevelopment, repositioning or market cycle opportunities.

Property Management Strategy

. We intend to increase operating income through innovative, proactive
property management that will result in higher revenue from communities and controlled operating
expenses.

Our principal strategies to maximize revenue include:

•

strong focus on resident satisfaction;

•

staggering lease terms such that lease expirations are better matched to traffic patterns;

•

balancing high occupancy with premium pricing, and increasing rents as market
conditions permit; and

•

managing community occupancy for optimal rental revenue levels.


Controlling operating expenses is another way in which we intend to increase earnings growth.
Growth in our portfolio and the resulting increase in revenue allows for fixed operating costs to
be spread over a larger volume of revenue, thereby increasing operating margins. We control
operating expenses as follows:

On-site property management teams receive bonuses based largely upon the net operating income
produced at their respective communities. We use and continuously seek ways to improve technology
applications to help manage our communities, believing that the accurate collection of
financial and resident data will enable us to maximize revenue and control costs through careful
leasing decisions, maintenance decisions and financial management.

We generally manage the operation and leasing activity of our communities directly (and not through
a subsidiary) both for ourselves and the joint ventures and partnerships of which we are a member
or a partner.

From time to time, we also pursue or arrange ancillary services for our residents to provide
additional revenue sources or increase resident satisfaction. In general, as a REIT we cannot
directly provide services to our tenants that are not customarily provided by a landlord, nor can
we share in the income of a third party that provides such services. However, we can provide such
non-customary services to residents or share in the revenue from such services if we do so through
a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” which is a subsidiary that is treated as a “C corporation” and is
therefore subject to federal income taxes. We have used taxable REIT subsidiaries on a limited
basis, such as to receive a commission from a recommended vendor used by residents.

Financing Strategy.

We have consistently maintained, and intend to continue to maintain, a capital
structure that is aligned to the business risks presented by our corporate strategy. At December
31, 2005, our debt-to-total market capitalization was 26.1%, and our long-term floating rate debt,
not including borrowings under our unsecured credit facility, was 2.3% of total market
capitalization. Total market capitalization reflects the aggregate of the market value of our
common stock, the market value of our operating partnership units outstanding (based on the market
value of our common stock), the liquidation preference of our preferred stock and the outstanding
principal amount of our debt. We believe that debt-to-total market capitalization can be one
useful measure of a real estate operating company’s long-term liquidity and balance sheet strength,
because it shows an approximate relationship between a company’s total debt and the current total
market value of its assets based on the current price at which the company’s common stock trades.
However, because debt-to-total market capitalization changes with fluctuations in our stock price,
which occurs regularly, our debt-to-total market capitalization may change even when our earnings
and debt levels remain stable.

We estimate that a portion of our short-term liquidity needs will be met from retained operating
cash and borrowings under our variable rate unsecured credit facility. If required to meet the
balance of our current or anticipated liquidity needs, we will attempt to arrange additional
capacity under our existing unsecured credit facility, sell existing communities or land and/or
issue additional debt or equity securities. A determination to engage in an equity or debt
offering depends on a variety of factors such as general market and economic conditions, including
interest rates, our short and long term liquidity needs, the adequacy of our expected liquidity
sources, the relative costs of debt and equity capital, and growth opportunities. A summary of
debt and equity activity for the last three years is reflected on our Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.


We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including
limited liability companies) or partnerships through which we would own an indirect economic
interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint venture or
partnership. Our decision whether to hold an apartment community in fee simple or to have an
indirect interest in the community through a joint venture or partnership is based on a variety of
factors and considerations, including: (i) the economic and tax terms required by a seller of land
or of a community, who may prefer that (or who may require less payment if) the land or community
is contributed to a joint venture or partnership; (ii) our desire to diversify our portfolio of
communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii) our desire at times to preserve our
capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength; and (iv) our projection, in some
circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested capital or reduce our risk if a
joint venture or partnership vehicle is used. Investments in joint ventures or partnerships are
not limited to a specified percentage of our assets. Each joint venture or partnership agreement
is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole
discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture or
partnership agreement.

We have invested in the AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P., a private, discretionary investment
vehicle (the “Fund”), which will acquire and operate apartment communities in our markets. The
Fund will serve, until March 16, 2008 or until 80% of its committed capital is invested, as the
exclusive vehicle through which we will acquire apartment communities, subject to certain
exceptions. These exceptions include significant individual asset and portfolio acquisitions,
properties acquired in tax-deferred transactions and acquisitions that are inadvisable or
inappropriate for the Fund, if any. The Fund will not restrict our development activities, and
will terminate after a term of eight years, subject to two one-year extensions. The Fund has nine
institutional investors, including us, with combined capital commitments of $330,000,000. A
significant portion of the investments made in the Fund by its investors are being made through
AvalonBay Value Added Fund, Inc., a Maryland corporation that will qualify as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code (the “Fund REIT”). A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is the general
partner of the Fund and has committed $50,000,000 to the Fund and the Fund REIT (of which
approximately $11,600,000 has been invested as of January 31, 2006) representing a 15.2% combined
general partner and limited partner equity interest. Under the Fund documents, the Fund has the
ability to employ leverage through debt financings up to 65% on a portfolio basis, which, if
achieved, would enable the Fund to invest up to $940,000,000.

In addition, we may, from time to time, offer shares of our equity securities, debt securities or
options to purchase stock in exchange for property.

Other Strategies and Activities

. While we emphasize equity real estate investments in rental
apartment communities, we have the ability to invest in other types of real estate, mortgages
(including participating or convertible mortgages), securities of other REITs or real estate
operating companies, or securities of technology companies that relate to our real estate
operations or of companies that provide services to us or our residents, in each case consistent
with our qualification as a REIT. On occasion, we own and operate retail space at our communities
when either (i) the highest and best use of the space is for retail (e.g., street level in an urban
area) or (ii) we believe the retail space will enhance the attractiveness of the community to
residents. As of December 31, 2005, we had a total of 269,289 square feet of rentable retail space
that produced gross rental revenue in 2005 of $3,896,000 (0.55% of total revenue). If we secure a
development right and believe that its best use, in whole or in part,
is to develop the real estate with the intent to sell rather than
hold the asset, we may, through a
taxable REIT subsidiary, develop real estate for sale. At present, we expect to develop with the
intent to sell, directly through a taxable REIT subsidiary or indirectly through a joint venture
partnership, one or more parcels. Any investment in securities of other entities, and any
development of real estate for sale, is subject to the percentage of ownership limitations, gross
income tests, and other limitations that must be observed for REIT qualification.

We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of other
issuers and do not intend to do so. At all times we intend to make investments in a manner as to
qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes to the Internal Revenue Code (or the
Treasury Regulations), the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest
to qualify as a REIT.


Inflation and Deflation

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. In an inflationary
environment, this may allow us to realize increased rents upon renewal of existing leases or the
beginning of new leases. Short-term leases generally minimize our risk from the adverse effects of
inflation, although these leases generally permit residents to leave at the end of the lease term
and therefore expose us to the effect of a decline in market rents. In a deflationary rent
environment, we may be exposed to declining rents more quickly under these shorter-term leases.

Tax Matters

We filed an election with our initial federal income tax return to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and intend to maintain our qualification as a REIT in
the future. As a qualified REIT, with limited exceptions, we will not be taxed under federal and
certain state income tax laws at the corporate level on our net income to the extent net income is
distributed to our stockholders. We expect to make sufficient distributions to avoid income tax at
the corporate level. While we believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT and we intend
to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT, there can be no
assurance that we will be successful in this regard. Qualification as a REIT involves the
application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which there
are limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety
of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.

Competition

We face competition from other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension and
investment funds, partnerships and investment companies and other apartment REITs, to acquire and
develop apartment communities and acquire land for future development. As an owner and operator of
apartment communities, we also face competition for prospective residents from other operators
whose communities may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may
be perceived as a better value proposition given the quality, location and amenities that the
resident seeks. We also compete with the condominium and single-family home markets. Although we
often compete against large sophisticated developers and operators for development opportunities
and for prospective residents, real estate developers and operators of any size can provide
effective competition for both real estate assets and potential residents.

Environmental and Related Matters

As a current or prior owner, operator and developer of real estate, we are subject to various
federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances and also could be liable to
third parties resulting from environmental factors at our communities. For some development
communities, we undertake significant environmental remediation to prepare the site for
construction. Environmental remediation efforts could expose us to possible liabilities for
accidents or improper handling of toxins during construction. These and other risks related to
environmental matters are described in more detail in Item 1a., “Risk Factors”.

Other Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are
available free of charge in the “Investor Relations” section of our website (www.avalonbay.com) as
soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. In
addition, the charters of our Board’s Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit
Committee and Compensation Committee, as well as our Corporate
Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, are available
free of charge in that section of our website or by writing to AvalonBay Communities, Inc., 2900
Eisenhower Avenue, Suite 300, Alexandria, Virginia 22314, Attention: Chief Financial Officer.

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of California in 1978. In 1995, we reincorporated
in the State of Maryland and have been focused on the ownership and operation of apartment
communities since that time. As of December 31, 2005, we had 1,647 employees.


ITEM 1a.

RISK FACTORS

Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences, including those
described below. This Item 1a includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to our
discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking
statements on page 61.

Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability.

We intend to continue to develop and redevelop apartment home communities. These activities may be
exposed to the following risks:

We project construction costs based on market conditions at the time we prepare our budgets, and
our projections include changes that we anticipate but cannot predict with certainty.
Construction costs have been increasing, particularly for materials such as steel, concrete and
lumber, and, for some of our Development Communities and Development Rights, the total
construction costs may be higher than the original budget. Total capitalized cost includes all
capitalized costs projected to be incurred to develop or redevelop a community, determined in
accordance with GAAP, including:


Costs to redevelop communities that have been acquired have, in some cases, exceeded our original
estimates and similar increases in costs may be experienced in the future. We cannot assure you
that market rents in effect at the time new development or redevelopment communities complete
lease-up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased construction or
reconstruction costs.

Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could hurt occupancy or rental rates.

Local conditions in our markets significantly affect occupancy or rental rates at our communities.
The risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets include the following:

Changes in applicable laws, or noncompliance with applicable laws, could adversely affect our
operations or expose us to liability.

We must
operate our communities in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and
regulations, including landlord tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to business
operations. Noncompliance with laws could expose us to liability. We are currently engaged in
settling a lawsuit related to our handling of security deposits in California. See “Legal
Proceedings.”

Compliance with changes in (i) laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions
existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, (ii) rent control or
rent stabilization laws or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies
affecting the use and operation of our communities, including changes to building codes and fire
and life-safety codes, may result in lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated
expenditures.

Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents.

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. Because these leases
generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental
revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer
terms.

Competition could limit our ability to lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents.

Our apartment communities compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including
other rental apartments, condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent, as well
as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential
housing in a particular area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartment homes and to
increase or maintain rental rates.

Attractive investment opportunities may not be available, which could adversely affect our
profitability.

We expect that other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension funds, other
REITs and other well-capitalized investors, will compete with us to acquire existing properties
and to develop new properties. This competition could increase prices for properties of the type
we would likely pursue and adversely affect our profitability.


Insufficient cash flow could affect our debt financing and create refinancing risk.

We are subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow
will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. In this regard, we note
that we are required to annually
distribute dividends generally equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, computed without
regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain, in order for us to continue to
qualify as a REIT, and this requirement limits the amount of our cash flow available to meet
required principal and interest payments. The principal outstanding balance on a portion of our
debt will not be fully amortized prior to its maturity. Although we may be able to repay our debt
by using our cash flows, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash flows available to
make all required principal payments. Therefore, we may need to refinance at least a portion of
our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing
debt or that a refinancing will not be done on as favorable terms, either of which could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Rising interest rates could increase interest costs and could affect the market price of our
common stock.

We currently have, and may in the future incur, variable interest rate debt. Accordingly, if
interest rates increase, our interest costs will also rise, unless we have made arrangements that
hedge the risk of rising interest rates. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may
lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a greater annual dividend yield, which could
adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

Bond financing and zoning compliance requirements could limit our income, restrict the use of
communities and cause favorable financing to become unavailable.

We have financed some of our apartment communities with obligations issued by local government
agencies because the interest paid to the holders of this debt is generally exempt from federal
income taxes and, therefore, the interest rate is generally more favorable to us. These
obligations are commonly referred to as “tax-exempt bonds” and generally must be secured by
communities. As a condition to obtaining tax-exempt financing, or on occasion as a condition to
obtaining favorable zoning in some jurisdictions, we will commit to make some of the apartments in
a community available to households whose income does not exceed certain thresholds (e.g., 50% or
80% of area median income), or who meet other qualifying tests. As of December 31, 2005,
approximately 6.1% of our apartment homes at current operating communities were under use
limitations such as these. These commitments, which may run without expiration or may expire
after a period of time (such as 15 or 20 years) may limit our ability to raise rents aggressively
and, in consequence, can also limit increases in the value of the communities subject to these
restrictions.

In addition, some of our tax-exempt bond financing documents require us to obtain a guarantee from
a financial institution of payment of the principal of, and interest on, the bonds. The guarantee
may take the form of a letter of credit, surety bond, guarantee agreement or other additional
collateral. If the financial institution defaults in its guarantee obligations, or if we are
unable to renew the applicable guarantee or otherwise post satisfactory collateral, a default will
occur under the applicable tax-exempt bonds and the community could be foreclosed upon.

Risks Related to Indebtedness.

We have a $500,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank
and Wachovia Bank, N.A. serving as banks and syndication agents for a syndicate of commercial
banks, and Bank of America, serving as bank and administrative agent. The credit facility
prohibits us from paying dividends in amounts that exceed 95% of our funds from operations,
provided that we may pay dividends in excess of 95% of our funds from operations as required to
maintain our qualification as a REIT. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount or
percentage of indebtedness that may be incurred. Accordingly, subject to compliance with
outstanding debt covenants, we could incur more debt, resulting in an increased risk of default on
our obligations and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations.

The mortgages on those of our properties subject to secured debt, our unsecured credit facility
and the indentures under which a substantial portion of our debt was issued contain customary
restrictions, requirements and other


limitations, as well as certain financial and operating
covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining compliance with these
restrictions could limit our flexibility. A default in these requirements, if
uncured, could result in a requirement that we repay indebtedness, which could severely affect our
liquidity and increase our financing costs.

Failure to generate sufficient revenue could limit cash flow available for distributions to
stockholders.

A decrease in rental revenue could have an adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions to
our stockholders and our ability to maintain our status as a REIT. Significant expenditures
associated with each community such as debt service payments, if any, real estate taxes, insurance
and maintenance costs are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income
from a community.

Debt financing may not be available and equity issuances could be dilutive to our stockholders.

Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt
and equity financing. Debt financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on favorable
terms. If we issue additional equity securities, the interests of existing stockholders could be
diluted.

Difficulty of selling apartment communities could limit flexibility.

Federal tax laws may limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of a community (unless we own it
through a subsidiary which will incur a taxable gain upon sale) if we
are found to have held, acquired or developed the community primarily with the
intent to resell the community, and this limitation may affect our ability to sell communities
without adversely affecting returns to our stockholders. In addition, real estate in our markets
can at times be hard to sell, especially if market conditions are poor. These potential
difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may limit our ability to change or reduce the
apartment communities in our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other
conditions.

Acquisitions may not yield anticipated results.

Subject to the requirements related to the Fund discussed below, we may in the future acquire
apartment communities on a select basis. Our acquisition activities and their success may be
exposed to the following risks:

•

an acquired property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment; and

•

our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove inaccurate.

Failure to succeed in new markets or in activities other than the development, ownership and
operation of residential rental communities may have adverse consequences.

We may from time to time commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our
existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. As noted in the business description
above, we also own and operate retail space when a retail component represents the best use of the
space, as is often the case with large urban in-fill developments. Also as noted in the business
description above, we expect to develop, directly or through a joint venture partnership, one or
more parcels with the intent to sell, which we believe represents the best use for those parcels.
Our historical experience in our existing markets in developing, owning and operating rental
communities does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets, should we
choose to enter them, or that we will be successful in these other activities. We may be exposed
to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to evaluate
accurately local apartment market conditions; an inability to obtain land for development or to
identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; an inability to hire and retain key personnel; and
lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. We may be unsuccessful in
owning and operating retail space at our communities or in developing real estate with the intent
to sell.


Risks involved in real estate activity through joint ventures.

Instead of acquiring or developing apartment communities directly, at times we invest as a partner
or a co-venturer. Partnership or joint venture investments involve risks, including the
possibility that our partner might become insolvent or otherwise refuse to make capital
contributions when due; that we may be responsible to our partner for
indemnifiable losses; that our partner might at any time have business goals which are
inconsistent with ours; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold
consent contrary to our instructions or requests. Frequently, we and our partner may each have
the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire
our partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction.

Risks associated with our discretionary investment fund

.

We have formed the Fund which, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage as the general partner
and to which we have committed $50,000,000, representing a 15.2% equity interest. This presents
risks, including the following:

Risk of earthquake damage.

As further described in Item 2., “Communities — Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses,” many of
our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. We
cannot assure you that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels.
In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the
affected community, as well as anticipated future revenue from that community. We would also
continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the
community. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial
condition and results of operations.

A significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

In addition to the earthquake insurance discussed above, we carry commercial general liability
insurance, property insurance and terrorism insurance with respect to our communities on terms we
consider commercially reasonable. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses
arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either
uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s view, economically impractical. If
an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, we could
lose our capital invested in a community, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such
community. We would also


continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other
obligations related to the community. If an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we
would incur the cost of defense and settlement with, or court ordered damages to, that third
party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect
our business and our financial condition and results of operations.

We may incur costs and increased expenses to repair property damage resulting from inclement
weather.

Particularly in the Northeast and Midwest we are exposed to risks associated with inclement winter
weather, including increased costs for the removal of snow and ice as well as from delays in
construction. In addition, inclement weather could increase the need for maintenance and repair of
our communities.

We may incur costs due to environmental contamination.

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, we may be
required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of
hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our properties and may be held
liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property or personal injury damages and
for investigation and remediation costs incurred as a result of the contamination. These damages
and costs may be substantial. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly
remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent the
affected property.

In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the
government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination.

Certain federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances govern the removal,
encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials (“ACMs”) when such materials are in
poor condition or in the event of renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may impose
liability for release of ACMs and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or
operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to ACMs. We are not
aware that any ACMs were used in the construction of the communities we developed. ACMs were,
however, used in the construction of several of the communities that we acquired. We implement an
operations and maintenance program at each of the communities at which ACMs are detected. We do
not anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of ACMs at
our communities.

We are aware that some of our communities have lead paint and have implemented an operations and
maintenance program at each of those communities. We do not anticipate that we will incur any
material liabilities as a result of the presence of lead paint at our communities.

All of our stabilized operating communities, and all of the communities that we are currently
developing or redeveloping, have been subjected to at least a Phase I or similar environmental
assessment, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water
sampling. These assessments, together with subsurface assessments conducted on some properties,
have not revealed, and we are not otherwise aware of, any environmental conditions that we believe
would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition or results of
operation. In connection with our ownership, operation and development of communities, from time
to time we undertake substantial remedial action in response to the presence of subsurface or
other contaminants. In some cases, an indemnity exists upon which we may be able to rely if
environmental liability arises from the contamination or remediation costs exceed estimates.
There can be no assurance, however, that all necessary remediation actions have been or will be
undertaken at our properties or that we will be indemnified, in full or at all, in the event that
environmental liability arises.

Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials,
particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of
time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to
remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years
that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or
other reactions. To help limit mold growth, we educate residents about the importance of adequate
ventilation and request or require that they notify us when they see mold or excessive moisture.
We have


established procedures for promptly addressing and remediating mold or excessive moisture
from apartment homes when we become aware of its presence regardless of whether we or the resident
believe a health risk is presented. However, we cannot assure that mold or excessive moisture
will be detected and remediated in a timely manner. If a significant mold problem arises at one
of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or
remove the mold from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities.

Additionally, we have occasionally been involved in developing, managing, leasing and operating
various properties for third parties. Consequently, we may be considered to have been an operator
of such properties and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs or other
potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances. We are not aware of any
material environmental liabilities with respect to properties managed or developed by us or our
predecessors for such third parties.

We cannot assure you that:

Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would
significantly reduce funds available for distribution to stockholders.

If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be subject to federal
income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative
minimum tax). In addition, unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions,
we would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years
following the year in which we lose our qualification. The additional tax liability resulting from
the failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds
available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, we would no longer be required to
make distributions to our stockholders. Thus, our failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair
our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our
common stock.

We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT, and we intend to operate in a manner
that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we are
qualified as a REIT, or that we will remain qualified in the future. This is because qualification
as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and
involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within
our control. In addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or
court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with
respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax
consequences of this qualification.

Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our
income and property and on taxable income that we do not distribute
to our shareholders. In addition, we may engage in activities through taxable subsidiaries and
will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the income of those
subsidiaries.


The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our
company is limited by certain provisions of our charter and bylaws and by Maryland law.

There are provisions in our charter and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a
proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in
their best interests. These provisions include the following:

Our
charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock
without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights, including voting rights,
of any series of preferred stock issued. The board of directors may issue preferred stock without
stockholder approval, which could allow the
board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a
tender offer or a change in control.

To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in
value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer
individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To maintain this qualification,
and to otherwise address concerns about concentrations of ownership of our stock, our charter
generally prohibits ownership (directly, indirectly by virtue of the attribution provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code, or beneficially as defined in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act) by
any single stockholder of more than 9.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of any class or
series of our stock. In general, under our charter, pension plans and mutual funds may directly
and beneficially own up to 15% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of stock. Under
our charter, our board of directors may in its sole discretion waive or modify the ownership limit
for one or more persons. These ownership limits may prevent or delay a change in control and, as a
result, could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to realize a premium for their shares of
common stock.

Our bylaws provide that the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of all of the shares
entitled to be cast in the election of directors is required to elect a director. In a contested
election, if no nominee receives the vote of holders of a majority of all of the shares entitled
to be cast, the incumbent directors would remain in office. This requirement may prevent or delay
a change in control and, as a result, could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to realize
a premium for their shares of common stock.

As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to the provisions of the Maryland General Corporation
Law. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with
statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions may occur, which may delay or prevent
offers to acquire us or increase the difficulty of completing any offers, even if they are in our
stockholders’ best interests. In addition, other provisions of the Maryland General Corporation
Law permit the Board of Directors to make elections and to take actions without stockholder
approval (such as classifying our Board such that the entire Board is not up for reelection
annually) that, if made or taken, could have the effect of discouraging or delaying a change in
control.

ITEM 1b.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.


ITEM 2.

COMMUNITIES

Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities,
communities in various stages of development (“Development Communities”) and Development Rights as
defined below. Our current operating communities are further distinguished as Established
Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities and Redevelopment Communities. The
following is a description of each category:

Current Communities

are categorized as Established, Other Stabilized,
Lease-Up, or Redevelopment according to the following attributes:

•

Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities)

are consolidated
communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current
year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and
operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year. For the year 2005, the
Established Communities are communities that are consolidated for financial reporting
purposes, had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of January 1, 2004, are
not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities and are not
held for sale or planned for disposition within the current year. A community is
considered to have stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i) attainment of 95%
physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development or
redevelopment.

•

Other Stabilized Communities

includes all other completed
communities that have stabilized occupancy, as defined above. Other
Stabilized Communities do not include communities that are conducting
or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the
current year.

•

Lease-Up Communities

are communities where construction has been
complete for less than one year and where physical occupancy has not
reached 95%.

•

Redevelopment Communities

are communities where substantial
redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current
year. For communities that we wholly-own, redevelopment is considered
substantial when capital invested during the reconstruction effort is
expected to exceed the lesser of $5,000,000 or 10% of the community’s
acquisition cost. The definition of substantial redevelopment may
differ for communities owned through a joint venture arrangement.

Development Communities

are communities that are under construction and
for which a final certificate of occupancy has not been received. These
communities may be partially complete and operating.

Development Rights

are development opportunities in the early phase of the
development process for which we either have an option to acquire land or enter into
a leasehold interest, for which we are the buyer under a long-term conditional
contract to purchase land or where we own land to develop a new community. We
capitalize related pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new developments for
which we currently believe future development is probable.

In addition, we own approximately 60,000 square feet of office space in Alexandria,
Virginia, for our corporate office, with all other regional and administrative offices
leased under operating leases.


As of December 31, 2005, our communities were classified as follows:

Number of

Number of

communities

apartment homes

Current Communities

Established Communities:

Northeast


7,657

Mid-Atlantic


4,247

Midwest



Pacific Northwest


2,500

Northern California


8,758

Southern California


3,207

Total Established


27,256

Other Stabilized Communities:

Northeast


7,419

Mid-Atlantic


2,106

Midwest



Pacific Northwest



Northern California



Southern California


1,665

Total Other Stabilized


13,055

Lease-Up Communities



Redevelopment Communities



Total Current Communities


41,412

Development Communities


4,062

Development Rights


12,495

Our holdings under each of the above categories are discussed on the following pages.

Current Communities

Our Current Communities are primarily garden-style apartment communities consisting of two and
three-story buildings in landscaped settings. In January 2006, we disposed of two communities
containing an aggregate of 473 apartment homes. The Current Communities, as of January 31, 2006,
include 106 garden-style (of which 14 are mixed communities and include townhomes), 20 high-rise
and 15 mid-rise apartment communities. The Current Communities offer many attractive amenities
including some or all of the following:

Other features at various communities may include:

•

swimming pools;

•

fitness centers;

•

tennis courts; and

•

business centers.

We also have an extensive and ongoing maintenance program to keep all communities and apartment
homes substantially free of deferred maintenance and, where vacant, available for immediate
occupancy. We believe that the aesthetic appeal of our communities and a service oriented
property management team, focused on the specific


needs of residents, enhances market appeal to
discriminating residents. We believe this will ultimately achieve higher rental rates and
occupancy levels while minimizing resident turnover and operating expenses.

Our Current Communities are located in the following geographic markets:

Number of

Number of apartment

Percentage of total

communities at

homes at

apartment homes at

1-1-05

1-31-06

1-1-05

1-31-06

1-1-05

1-31-06

Northeast



14,315

15,509

35.7

%

37.9

%

Boston, MA



4,127

4,352

10.3

%

10.6

%

Fairfield County, CT



4,108

4,375

10.2

%

10.7

%

Long Island, NY



1,171


2.9

%

2.2

%

Northern New Jersey



1,451

1,182

3.6

%

2.9

%

Central New Jersey



1,440

1,752

3.6

%

4.3

%

New York, NY



2,018

2,933

5.0

%

7.2

%

Mid-Atlantic



6,991

6,859

17.4

%

16.8

%

Baltimore, MD



1,224

1,224

3.0

%

3.0

%

Washington, DC



5,767

5,635

14.4

%

13.8

%

Midwest



1,500

1,696

3.7

%

4.1

%

Chicago, IL



1,500

1,696

3.7

%

4.1

%

Pacific Northwest



3,138

3,111

7.8

%

7.6

%

Seattle, WA



3,138

3,111

7.8

%

7.6

%

Northern California



9,424

8,892

23.5

%

21.7

%

Oakland-East Bay, CA



2,090

2,089

5.2

%

5.1

%

San Francisco, CA



2,015

2,015

5.0

%

4.9

%

San Jose, CA



5,319

4,788

13.3

%

11.7

%

Southern California



4,774

4,872

11.9

%

11.9

%

Los Angeles, CA



2,366

2,448

5.9

%

6.0

%

Orange County, CA



1,174

1,366

2.9

%

3.3

%

San Diego, CA



1,234

1,058

3.1

%

2.6

%



40,142

40,939

100.0

%

100.0

%

We manage and operate all of our Current Communities. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we
completed construction of 1,971 apartment homes in seven communities, acquired 604 apartment homes
in four communities and sold 1,305 apartment homes in seven communities. The average age of our
Current Communities, on a weighted average basis according to number of apartment homes, is 13.8
years. When adjusted to accommodate for redevelopment activity, the average age of our Current
Communities is 8.6 years.

Of the Current Communities, as of January 31, 2006, we own:


We also hold a fee simple ownership interest in 14 of the Development Communities, one of which
will be subject to a joint venture ownership structure upon construction completion, in addition to
a membership interest in one limited liability company that owns a Development Community, which is
subject to a land lease expiring in December 2103.

In each of our five partnerships structured as DownREITs, either AvalonBay or one of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are one or more limited partners whose
interest in the partnership is represented by units of limited partnership interest. For each
DownREIT partnership, limited partners are entitled to receive an initial distribution before any
distribution is made to the general partner. Although the partnership agreements for each of the
DownREITs are different, generally the distributions per unit paid to the holders of units of
limited partnership interests have approximated our current common stock dividend amount. Each
DownREIT partnership has been structured so that it is unlikely the limited partners will be
entitled to a distribution greater than the initial distribution provided for in the applicable
partnership agreement. The holders of units of limited partnership interest have the right to
present all or some of their units for redemption for a cash amount as determined by the applicable
partnership agreement and based on the fair value of our common stock. In lieu of a cash
redemption by the partnership, we may elect to acquire any unit presented for redemption for one
share of our common stock or for such cash amount. As of January 31, 2006, there were 235,665
DownREIT partnership units outstanding. The DownREIT partnerships are consolidated for financial
reporting purposes.


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/05



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

CURRENT COMMUNITIES

NORTHEAST

Boston, MA

Avalon at Center Place (11)

Providence, RI


222,834

1.2

1991/1997


92.0

%

95.6

%

94.9

%

$

2,129

$

2.05

$

28,470

Avalon at Crane Brook

Danvers & Peabody, MA


410,454

20.0

N/A

1,271

94.6

%

85.6

%(3)

40.4

%

1,317

1.06

(3)

54,311

Avalon at Faxon Park

Quincy, MA


175,649

8.3


1,027

95.3

%

95.7

%

95.6

%

1,593

1.48

15,521

Avalon at Flanders Hill

Westborough, MA


299,828

62.0


1,099

97.1

%

97.0

%

94.6

%

1,475

1.34

37,179

Avalon at Lexington

Lexington, MA


230,277

16.1


1,163

95.5

%

97.1

%

97.1

%

1,737

1.45

15,833

Avalon at Newton Highlands (8)

Newton, MA


339,484

7.0


1,177

96.3

%

96.0

%

88.8

%

2,136

1.77

56,628

Avalon at Prudential Center

Boston, MA


732,237

1.0

1968/1998


99.2

%

96.8

%(2)

96.3

%(2)

2,820

2.91

(2)

156,501

Avalon at Steven’s Pond

Saugus, MA


381,825

82.6


1,106

96.9

%

94.6

%

84.0

%(3)

1,586

1.28

54,306

Avalon at The Pinehills I

Plymouth, MA


151,712

6.0


1,954

97.0

%

83.9

%

31.1

%

1,819

1.02

19,893

Avalon Essex

Peabody, MA


198,478

11.1


1,289

97.4

%

96.6

%

96.8

%(3)

1,637

1.23

21,753

Avalon Estates

Hull, MA


193,418

55.0


1,194

95.1

%

94.9

%

96.2

%

1,523

1.21

20,358

Avalon Ledges

Weymouth, MA


329,822

57.6


1,023

93.8

%

94.3

%

94.1

%

1,438

1.25

36,271

Avalon Oaks

Wilmington, MA


229,752

22.5


1,023

90.7

%

93.5

%

94.9

%

1,522

1.26

21,204

Avalon Oaks West

Wilmington, MA


133,376

27.0


1,033

96.7

%

93.8

%

93.6

%

1,412

1.19

16,847

Avalon Orchards

Marlborough, MA


176,497

23.0


1,219

98.1

%

97.2

%

95.0

%

1,503

1.29

21,076

Avalon Summit

Quincy, MA


224,418

8.0

1986/1996


96.3

%

95.2

%

95.7

%

1,229

1.28

16,975

Avalon West

Westborough, MA


147,472

8.0


1,229

96.7

%

96.7

%

95.8

%

1,426

1.12

11,292

Essex Place

Peabody, MA


250,322

18.0



97.2

%

96.3

%

91.7

%

1,008

1.11

23,728

Fairfield-New Haven, CT

Avalon at Greyrock Place

Stamford, CT


314,600

3.0


1,040

99.0

%

97.6

%

96.6

%

1,983

1.88

70,341

Avalon Corners

Stamford, CT


192,174

3.2



97.9

%

97.3

%

94.9

%

1,927

1.90

31,857

Avalon Danbury

Danbury, CT


235,320

36.0


1,006

82.1

%

40.8

%(3)

0.0

%

1,912

0.78

(3)

35,291

Avalon Darien

Darien, CT


242,533

32.0


1,282

95.8

%

97.7

%

84.2

%(3)

2,223

1.69

41,513

Avalon Gates

Trumbull, CT


379,282

37.0


1,116

98.5

%

96.3

%

88.2

%

1,492

1.29

36,941

Avalon Glen

Stamford, CT


229,644

4.1



99.2

%

98.0

%

95.6

%

1,761

1.79

32,013

Avalon Haven

North Haven, CT


139,972

10.6


1,094

97.7

%

95.9

%

96.8

%

1,526

1.34

13,934

Avalon Milford I

Milford, CT


216,746

22.0



98.4

%

93.9

%

47.3

%(3)

1,280

1.36

31,421

Avalon New Canaan (7)

New Canaan, CT


131,782

9.1


1,251

92.3

%

96.4

%

93.2

%

2,676

2.04

24,319

Avalon on Stamford Harbor

Stamford, CT


323,587

12.1


1,002

94.1

%

96.5

%

94.8

%

2,230

2.15

62,858

Avalon Orange

Orange, CT


163,238

9.6



99.4

%

64.1

%(3)

5.6

%

1,436

0.95

(3)

21,931

Avalon Springs

Wilton, CT


158,259

12.0


1,552

92.2

%

93.9

%

95.4

%

2,754

1.67

17,137

Avalon Valley

Danbury, CT


300,044

17.1


1,070

98.1

%

94.9

%

95.6

%

1,603

1.36

26,193

Avalon Walk I & II

Hamden, CT


766,604

38.4

1992/1994


96.5

%

93.2

%

92.8

%


0.64

59,372


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/05



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

Long Island, NY

Avalon at Glen Cove South

Glen Cove, NY


261,425

4.0


1,050

96.1

%

95.8

%

46.8

%(3)

2,139

2.01

67,575

Avalon Commons

Smithtown, NY


377,240

20.6


1,209

98.4

%

97.4

%

97.7

%

1,966

1.58

33,602

Avalon Court

Melville, NY


596,942

35.4

1997/2000

1,208

96.8

%

96.8

%

95.4

%

2,270

1.82

59,685

Avalon Pines I

Coram, NY


362,124

32.0


1,485

95.6

%

71.6

%(3)

8.3

%

1,716

1.01

(3)

50,312

Avalon Towers

Long Beach, NY


124,611

1.3

1990/1995

1,143

96.3

%

97.7

%(2)

97.0

%

3,209

2.74

(2)

21,184

Northern New Jersey

Avalon at Edgewater

Edgewater, NJ


428,611

7.6


1,051

96.1

%

96.3

%

92.8

%

2,063

1.89

74,927

Avalon at Florham Park

Florham Park, NJ


330,410

41.9


1,224

98.1

%

96.4

%

93.4

%

2,310

1.82

41,743

Avalon Cove

Jersey City, NJ


575,334

11.0


1,142

97.2

%

97.5

%

96.2

%

2,436

2.08

92,564

Central New Jersey

Avalon at Freehold

Freehold, NJ


317,331

40.3


1,072

97.0

%

95.6

%

95.3

%

1,657

1.48

34,526

Avalon Run East

Lawrenceville, NJ


257,938

27.1


1,287

94.7

%

96.0

%

94.9

%

1,561

1.20

16,358

Avalon Run East II

Lawrenceville, NJ


341,320

70.5

N/A

1,095

96.8

%

87.6

%(3)

28.9

%

1,578

1.26

(3)

52,084

Avalon Watch

West Windsor, NJ


486,069

64.4



95.7

%

95.3

%

94.4

%

1,325

1.33

30,137

New York, NY

Avalon Gardens

Nanuet, NY


608,842

62.5


1,208

97.8

%

97.8

%

95.9

%

1,957

1.58

54,817

Avalon Green

Elmsford, NY


113,538

16.9


1,081

98.1

%

96.3

%

94.2

%

2,064

1.84

12,826

Avalon on the Sound (11)

New Rochelle, NY


372,860

2.4



96.4

%

96.2

%

93.0

%

2,125

2.26

116,359

Avalon Riverview I (11)

Long Island City, NY


332,947

1.0



97.0

%

96.7

%

94.4

%

2,794

3.02

94,442

Avalon View

Wappingers Falls, NY


327,547

41.0


1,137

92.4

%

92.7

%

93.6

%

1,327

1.08

19,099

Avalon Willow

Mamaroneck, NY


199,842

4.0



99.6

%

96.4

%

95.0

%

1,969

2.16

47,394

The Avalon

Bronxville, NY


119,410

1.5


1,085

98.2

%

96.4

%

94.8

%

3,263

2.90

31,335

MID-ATLANTIC

Baltimore, MD

Avalon at Fairway Hills I & II

Columbia, MD


386,344

23.8

1987/1996

1,005

97.7

%

94.7

%

95.7

%

1,108

1.09

22,389

Avalon at Fairway Hills III

Columbia, MD


337,683

20.2

1987/1996

1,005

94.9

%

91.1

%(2)

N/A

1,076

0.99

(2)

28,237

Avalon at Symphony Glen

Columbia, MD


179,880

10.0


1,022

87.5

%

95.9

%

96.4

%

1,176

1.10

9,308

Avalon Landing

Annapolis, MD


117,033

13.8

1984/1995


100.0

%

97.2

%

96.2

%

1,100

1.44

10,028

Washington, DC

AutumnWoods

Fairfax, VA


355,228

24.3

1989/1996


93.6

%

95.2

%

96.6

%

1,147

1.29

31,218

Avalon at Arlington Square

Arlington, VA


901,120

20.1


1,070

97.0

%

94.7

%

94.6

%

1,612

1.43

112,544

Avalon at Ballston — Washington Towers

Arlington, VA


294,954

4.1



99.1

%

97.2

%

97.0

%

1,501

1.70

37,950

Avalon at Cameron Court

Alexandria, VA


467,292

16.0


1,016

98.9

%

95.3

%

95.1

%

1,593

1.49

43,445

Avalon at Decoverly

Rockville, MD


368,374

24.0

1991/1995

1,001

98.4

%

95.3

%

95.2

%

1,282

1.22

32,036

Avalon at Foxhall

Washington, DC


297,875

2.7



95.8

%

94.3

%

91.8

%(2)

1,934

1.89

44,060

Avalon at Gallery Place I

Washington, DC


184,230

0.5



97.0

%

95.6

%

73.5

%

2,076

2.19

48,816

Avalon at Grosvenor Station (8)

North Bethesda, MD


477,459

10.0



98.4

%

95.7

%

68.0

%(3)

1,466

1.46

81,453

Avalon at Providence Park

Fairfax, VA


148,282

9.3

1988/1997

1,052

97.2

%

96.8

%

96.8

%

1,301

1.20

11,521

Avalon at Rock Spring (9) (11)

North Bethesda, MD


388,232

10.2


1,006

96.6

%

94.9

%

88.9

%

1,539

1.45

46,035

Avalon at Traville

North Potomac, MD


573,717

47.9


1,103

97.1

%

94.7

%

58.2

%(3)

1,470

1.26

69,891

Avalon Crescent

McLean, VA


613,426

19.1


1,099

96.1

%

96.2

%

95.4

%

1,675

1.47

57,571

Avalon Fields I & II

North Potomac, MD


292,282

9.2


1,050

94.4

%

95.2

%

97.0

%

1,296

1.22

22,750

Avalon Knoll

Germantown, MD


290,544

26.7



99.3

%

95.8

%

94.8

%

1,078

1.07

9,199


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/05



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

MIDWEST

Chicago, IL

200 Arlington Place

Arlington Heights, IL


346,416

2.8

1987/2000


95.4

%

95.0

%

92.1

%

1,301

1.46

50,160

Avalon at Danada Farms (8)

Wheaton, IL


350,606

19.2


1,188

94.2

%

95.6

%

93.6

%

1,289

1.04

38,556

Avalon at Stratford Green (8)

Bloomingdale, IL


237,084

12.7


1,235

96.9

%

95.1

%

93.2

%

1,289

0.99

22,163

Avalon at West Grove (8)

Westmont, IL


388,500

17.4



93.3

%

96.2

%

93.6

%


0.84

31,035

PACIFIC NORTHWEST

Seattle, WA

Avalon at Bear Creek (8)

Redmond, WA


288,250

22.2


1,092

97.0

%

94.6

%

93.8

%

1,109

0.96

34,766

Avalon Bellevue

Bellevue, WA


167,069

1.7



96.5

%

95.8

%

94.5

%

1,236

1.43

30,862

Avalon Belltown

Seattle, WA


82,418

0.7



94.0

%

95.5

%

94.5

%

1,474

1.71

18,423

Avalon Brandemoor (8)

Lynwood, WA


453,602

27.0


1,070

96.0

%

96.6

%

95.6

%


0.84

45,584

Avalon HighGrove (8)

Everett, WA


422,482

19.0


1,081

96.4

%

94.9

%

95.6

%


0.78

39,776

Avalon Juanita Village (10)

Kirkland, WA


207,511

2.9



94.8

%

45.4

%(3)

N/A

1,380

0.64

(3)

44,077

Avalon ParcSquare (8)

Redmond, WA


126,951

2.0


1,024

96.0

%

95.4

%

94.4

%

1,293

1.20

19,244

Avalon Redmond Place (8)

Redmond, WA


211,450

8.4

1991/1997


95.5

%

96.4

%

95.3

%

1,033

1.04

26,167

Avalon RockMeadow (8)

Bothell, WA


243,958

11.2


1,184

97.1

%

95.0

%

94.7

%

1,026

0.82

24,712

Avalon WildReed (8)

Everett, WA


259,080

23.0


1,107

96.2

%

95.7

%

95.2

%


0.76

23,063

Avalon Wynhaven (8)

Issaquah, WA


424,803

11.6


1,276

94.9

%

94.0

%

91.3

%

1,185

0.87

52,734

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Oakland-East Bay, CA

Avalon at Union Square

Union City, CA


150,320

8.5

1973/1996


98.6

%

96.9

%

95.6

%

1,031

1.38

22,513

Avalon at Willow Creek

Fremont, CA


191,935

13.5

1985/1994


97.9

%

96.9

%

95.5

%

1,236

1.47

35,614

Avalon Dublin

Dublin, CA


179,004

13.0

1989/1997


96.6

%

96.2

%

95.1

%

1,319

1.45

27,388

Avalon Fremont I

Fremont, CA


316,052

14.3


1,026

98.4

%

96.3

%

95.3

%

1,456

1.37

55,906

Avalon Pleasanton

Pleasanton, CA


366,062

14.7

1988/1994


98.7

%

95.9

%

95.0

%

1,219

1.46

61,394

Waterford

Hayward, CA


452,043

11.1

1985/1986


95.6

%

94.9

%

93.0

%

1,125

1.28

60,892

San Francisco, CA

Avalon at Cedar Ridge

Daly City, CA


141,411

7.0

1972/1997


96.4

%

96.0

%

95.7

%

1,356

1.80

26,136

Avalon at Diamond Heights

San Francisco, CA


123,047

3.0

1972/1994


98.1

%

95.9

%

96.2

%

1,597

1.92

25,119

Avalon at Mission Bay North

San Francisco, CA


243,089

1.4



97.6

%

95.5

%

94.2

%

2,636

2.59

92,646

Avalon at Nob Hill

San Francisco, CA


108,745

1.4

1990/1995


96.2

%

96.3

%

95.5

%

1,528

2.50

28,056

Avalon Foster City

Foster City, CA


222,364

11.0

1973/1994


97.9

%

97.0

%

96.2

%

1,255

1.58

43,338

Avalon Pacifica

Pacifica, CA


186,800

21.9

1971/1995


98.6

%

96.1

%

95.6

%

1,422

1.61

31,883

Avalon Sunset Towers

San Francisco, CA


171,800

16.0

1961/1996


95.9

%

97.4

%

96.0

%

1,613

2.22

28,731

Avalon Towers by the Bay

San Francisco, CA


243,090

1.0


1,076

98.7

%

96.2

%

95.3

%

2,554

2.28

67,002

Crowne Ridge

San Rafael, CA


221,635

21.9

1973/1996


97.6

%

95.8

%

94.8

%

1,266

1.39

32,708


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/05



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

San Jose, CA

Avalon at Blossom Hill

San Jose, CA


323,496

7.5



99.1

%

96.2

%

95.1

%

1,391

1.34

61,751

Avalon at Cahill Park

San Jose, CA


218,177

3.8


1,001

95.4

%

97.1

%

95.6

%

1,716

1.66

52,525

Avalon at Creekside

Mountain View, CA


215,680

13.0

1962/1997


97.3

%

96.5

%

95.6

%

1,178

1.55

43,292

Avalon at Foxchase I & II

San Jose, CA


334,956

12.0

1988/1987


98.0

%

96.0

%

96.5

%

1,166

1.32

60,299

Avalon at Parkside

Sunnyvale, CA


203,990

8.0

1991/1996

1,062

99.5

%

97.4

%

97.0

%

1,535

1.41

38,042

Avalon at Pruneyard

Campbell, CA


197,000

8.5

1968/1997


98.0

%

97.0

%

97.6

%

1,165

1.45

31,954

Avalon at River Oaks

San Jose, CA


210,050

4.0

1990/1996


98.7

%

96.7

%

95.9

%

1,360

1.41

44,989

Avalon Campbell

Campbell, CA


326,796

10.8



98.9

%

96.2

%

95.7

%

1,430

1.46

60,083

Avalon Cupertino

Cupertino, CA


293,726

8.0



96.5

%

96.7

%

96.3

%

1,589

1.63

49,157

Avalon Mountain View (7)

Mountain View, CA


211,552

10.5



96.4

%

95.1

%

96.5

%

1,482

1.65

51,189

Avalon on the Alameda

San Jose, CA


299,762

8.9



98.7

%

95.2

%

95.3

%

1,701

1.65

56,481

Avalon Rosewalk

San Jose, CA


448,488

16.6

1997/1999


96.5

%

95.7

%

95.4

%

1,346

1.31

78,578

Avalon Silicon Valley

Sunnyvale, CA


653,929

13.6



96.3

%

95.8

%

95.4

%

1,621

1.69

121,821

Avalon Towers on the Peninsula

Mountain View, CA


218,392

1.9


1,035

99.5

%

96.7

%

95.5

%

2,231

2.09

65,750

CountryBrook (8)

San Jose, CA


322,992

14.0

1985/1996


98.3

%

96.8

%

95.4

%

1,236

1.33

48,656

San Marino

San Jose, CA


209,000

11.5

1984/1988


98.8

%

96.7

%

96.2

%

1,168

1.34

34,628

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Los Angeles, CA

Avalon at Media Center

Burbank, CA


530,084

14.1

1961/1997


97.2

%

95.9

%

95.9

%

1,273

1.72

76,073

Avalon at Warner Center

Woodland Hills, CA


191,114

7.0

1979/1998


96.9

%

97.5

%

96.2

%

1,482

1.72

26,743

Avalon Glendale (11)

Burbank, CA


241,714

5.1


1,084

92.8

%

95.7

%

86.1

%

2,048

1.81

40,233

Avalon Woodland Hills

Woodland Hills, CA


594,396

18.2

1989/1997


94.3

%

96.0

%

95.1

%

1,386

1.48

72,072

The Promenade

Burbank, CA


360,587

6.9

1988/2002


96.5

%

96.9

%

94.7

%

1,629

1.75

71,003

Orange County, CA

Avalon at Pacific Bay

Huntington Beach, CA


268,000

9.7

1971/1997


97.4

%

96.7

%

96.3

%

1,362

1.49

32,124

Avalon at South Coast

Costa Mesa, CA


207,672

8.0

1973/1996


99.2

%

97.2

%

95.8

%

1,256

1.52

25,247

Avalon Mission Viejo

Mission Viejo, CA


124,600

7.8

1984/1996


97.0

%

95.4

%

95.0

%

1,156

1.47

13,617

Avalon Newport

Costa Mesa, CA


122,415

6.6

1956/1996


98.6

%

97.5

%

95.9

%

1,455

1.68

10,353

Avalon Santa Margarita

Rancho Santa Margarita, CA


229,593

20.0

1990/1997


96.7

%

96.5

%

95.0

%

1,220

1.54

24,145

San Diego, CA

Avalon at Cortez Hill

San Diego, CA


226,140

1.4

1973/1998


95.6

%

95.0

%

97.0

%

1,352

1.67

34,531

Avalon at Mission Bay

San Diego, CA


402,285

12.9

1969/1997


95.9

%

95.1

%

95.2

%

1,322

1.76

66,194

Avalon at Mission Ridge

San Diego, CA


207,625

4.0

1960/1997

1,038

99.5

%

96.1

%

96.0

%

1,453

1.34

22,288


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/05



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES

Avalon at Bedford Center

Bedford, MA


159,704

38.0

N/A

1,149

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

24,131

Avalon at Decoverly II

Rockville, MD


182,560

10.8

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

12,225

Avalon at Glen Cove North

Glen Cove, NY


101,161

1.3

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

4,684

Avalon at Lyndhurst

Lyndhurst, NJ


331,122

5.8

N/A

1,010

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

31,261

Avalon Wilshire

Los Angeles, CA


125,109

1.6

N/A

1,017

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

17,587

Avalon Camarillo

Camarillo, CA


233,267

10.0

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

34,330

Avalon Chestnut Hill

Chestnut Hill, MA


275,563

4.7

N/A

1,351

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

27,767

Avalon Chrystie Place II

New York, NY


162,000

1.1

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

30,067

Avalon Danvers

Danvers, MA


493,095

75.0

N/A

1,139

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

8,896

Avalon Del Rey (12)

Los Angeles, CA


284,636

5.0

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

56,570

Avalon Pines II

Corum, NY


185,954

42.0

N/A

1,223

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

18,709

Avalon Riverview North

Long Island City, NY


477,657

1.8

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

—

Avalon Shrewsbury

Shrewbury, MA


209,548

25.5

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

9,266

Avalon Woburn

Woburn, MA


483,995

56.0

N/A

1,085

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

6,104

UNCONSOLIDATED COMMUNITIES

Avalon at Poplar Creek (6)

Schaumburg, IL


178,490

12.8



95.9

%

94.3

%(3)

N/A

1,058

1.10

(3)

N/A

Avalon Bedford (9)

Stamford, CT


311,873

4.6

1961/1998


97.3

%

94.9

%

94.2

%

1,530

1.71

N/A

Avalon Chrystie Place I (9)(11)

New York, NY


266,940

1.5



92.2

%

62.5

%(3)

N/A

1,563

1.32

(3)

N/A

Avalon Columbia (6)

Columbia, MD


177,284

11.3

1989/2004

1,043

90.0

%

84.4

%(2)

91.1

%(3)

1,221

0.99

(2)

N/A

Avalon Grove (9)

Stamford, CT


365,252

5.1



97.0

%

96.6

%

94.5

%

1,969

2.09

N/A

Avalon Lakeside (6)

Wheaton, IL


162,821

12.4



96.9

%

79.6

%

90.0

%(3)


0.89

(2)

N/A

Avalon Redondo Beach (6)

Redondo Beach, CA


85,380

1.2

1971/2004


92.4

%

95.9

%

91.2

%(3)

1,779

2.10

N/A

Avalon Run (7)

Lawrenceville, NJ


443,168

9.0


1,010

94.1

%

95.5

%

91.6

%

1,318

1.21

N/A

Civic Center (6)

Norwalk, CA


173,568

8.7



97.4

%

98.6

%(3)

N/A

1,464

1.60

(3)

N/A

Fuller Martel (6)

Los Angeles, CA


71,846

0.8



97.6

%

97.4

%(3)

N/A

1,610

1.79

(3)

N/A

Paseo Park (6)

Fremont, CA


105,900

7.0



97.0

%

96.0

%(3)

N/A

1,165

1.41

(3)

N/A

Ravenswood at the Park (6)

Redmond, WA


340,448

24.0

1983/2004


97.0

%

93.9

%

87.7

%(3)


1.03

N/A

Avalon at Mission Bay North II (9)(11)(13)

San Francisco, CA


291,817

1.5

N/A


N/A

N/A

(3)

N/A

N/A

N/A

(3)

N/A


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Washer &

Large

Non-

1 BR

2BR

3BR

dryer

storage or

Balcony,

direct

Direct

Homes w/ pre-

Studios /

Parking

hook-ups or

Vaulted

walk-in

patio, deck

Built-in

access

access

wired security

1/1.5 BA

1/1.5 BA

2/2.5/3 BA

2/2.5 BA

3BA

efficiencies

Other

Total

spaces

units

ceilings

Lofts

Fireplaces

closet

or sunroom

bookcases

Carports

garages

garages

systems

CURRENT COMMUNITIES (1)

NORTHEAST

Boston, MA

Avalon at Center Place


—



—


—



All

None

None

None

Some

Some

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Crane Brook





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon at Faxon Park


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon at Flanders Hill





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon at Lexington





—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Newton Highlands







—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

Most

None

No

No

No

All

Avalon at Prudential Center


—


—



—



None

None

None

None

Most

Some

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Steven’s Pond


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon at The Pinehills I


—



—

—

—



All

Most

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

No

Yes

All

Avalon Essex


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Half

Most

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Estates




—

—

—

—



All

Some

Half

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Ledges





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon Oaks





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon Oaks West





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon Orchards



—

—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Summit





—

—




None

None

None

None

Some

Most

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon West


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

Half

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Essex Place



—

—

—

—

—



Some

None

None

None

Some

Some

None

No

No

No

None

Fairfield-New Haven, CT

Avalon at Greyrock Place





—

—




All

None

None

None

Most

All

None

No

No

No

All

Avalon Corners


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon Danbury


—



—

—

—



All

None

Some

Some

Some

All

None

No

Yes

No

Some

Avalon Darien


—



—

—

—



All

All

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Gates


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Half

All

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon Glen


—



—

—

—



Most

Some

Some

Some

Some

Most

Some

Yes

No

Yes

Most

Avalon Haven


—



—

—




All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon Milford I


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

None

Some

Some

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon New Canaan


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon on Stamford Harbor


—



—


—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

Most

None

No

No

No

All

Avalon Orange


—



—

—




All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

All

Avalon Springs

—

—



—

—

—



All

Half

Half

Most

All

All

None

No

No

Yes

All

Avalon Valley


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon Walk I & II





—

—



1,411

All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

Yes

No

No

Half

Long Island, NY

Avalon at Glen Cove South


—


—

—


—



All

None

None

Some

All

Some

None

No

No

Some

Some

Avalon Commons





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon Court





—

—

—



All

Half

Half

Some

Some

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Pines I


—


—


—

—


1,094

All

Most

Some

Some

Most

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Towers

—

—


—






All

None

None

None

Most

Most

None

No

Yes

No

None

Northern New Jersey

Avalon at Edgewater


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

Half

None

No

No

Yes

Some

Avalon at Florham Park


—



—

—

—



All

All

None

Some

Most

Some

None

No

No

Yes

All

Avalon Cove


—




—




All

Some

Some

Some

All

Some

None

No

Yes

No

None

Central New Jersey

Avalon at Freehold





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Half

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Run East



—


—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

Most

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Run East II





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Some

All

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Watch





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Half

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Washer &

Large

Non-

1 BR

2BR

3BR

dryer

storage or

Balcony,

direct

Direct

Homes w/ pre-

Studios /

Parking

hook-ups or

Vaulted

walk-in

patio, deck

Built-in

access

access

wired security

1/1.5 BA

1/1.5 BA

2/2.5/3 BA

2/2.5 BA

3BA

efficiencies

Other

Total

spaces

units

ceilings

Lofts

Fireplaces

closet

or sunroom

bookcases

Carports

garages

garages

systems

New York, NY

Avalon Gardens





—

—

—


1,382

All

Half

Half

Some

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Green




—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

All

Avalon on the Sound


—





—



Most

Some

Some

None

Most

Some

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon Riverview I


—





—



All

None

Some

None

Most

Some

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon View





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon Willow


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Some

All

None

No

No

No

No

The Avalon





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

Half

None

No

No

Yes

All

MID-ATLANTIC

Baltimore, MD

Avalon at Fairway Hills I & II





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

Some

All

Some

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Fairway Hills III





—

—




All

Some

None

Most

Some

All

Some

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Symphony Glen





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

All

Most

Some

No

No

No

None

Avalon Landing




—

—

—



All

None

None

Most

Most

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Washington, DC

AutumnWoods




—

—

—

—



All

Some

None

Some

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon at Arlington Square





—

—



1,411

All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

Some

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon at Ballston — Washington Towers



—

—

—

—

—



All

None

None

Some

Most

All

Some

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Cameron Court


—


—

—

—




All

Most

Some

Some

All

Most

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon at Decoverly


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Foxhall





—





All

Some

None

Some

All

All

Some

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon at Gallery Place I



—


—


—



All

Some

None

None

Most

Some

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon at Grosvenor Station





—


—



All

Some

Some

None

Most

Most

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon at Providence Park


—



—

—




All

Some

None

Most

All

All

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Rock Spring





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon at Traville





—

—

—


1,062

All

Some

Some

Some

All

Most

Some

Yes

Yes

Yes

None

Avalon Crescent




—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Most

Most

All

Some

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Fields I & II





—

—




All

Some

Some

Some

Most

Most

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon Knoll





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

All

All

Most

No

No

No

None

MIDWEST

Chicago, IL

200 Arlington Place


—


—

—


—



All

None

None

None

Some

Half

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Danada Farms


—




—

—



All

None

None

Some

Most

Some

Some

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon at Stratford Green


—



—

—

—



All

None

None

Some

Most

Most

Some

No

Yes

Yes

None

Avalon at West Grove



—

—

—

—

—



None

None

None

None

Some

Half

None

Yes

No

No

None

PACIFIC NORTHWEST

Seattle, WA

Avalon at Bear Creek






—

—



All

Some

None

Most

All

All

Half

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Bellevue


—


—

—


—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

Some

None

No

No

No

Some

Avalon Belltown


—


—

—


—



All

None

None

None

Most

Some

None

No

No

No

Yes

Avalon Brandemoor





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon HighGrove






—

—



All

Half

None

Most

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Juanita Village


—





—



All

Some

None

None

Most

Some

None

No

Yes

Yes

Some

Avalon ParcSquare





—

—




All

Some

None

None

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

Some

Avalon Redmond Place





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

Most

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon RockMeadow






—

—



All

Some

None

Most

Most

All

Some

Yes

No

Yes

All

Avalon WildReed





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon Wynhaven






—




All

Most

Some

Most

Half

Most

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

All


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Washer &

Large

Non-

1 BR

2BR

3BR

dryer

storage or

Balcony,

direct

Direct

Homes w/ pre-

Studios /

Parking

hook-ups or

Vaulted

walk-in

patio, deck

Built-in

access

access

wired security

1/1.5 BA

1/1.5 BA

2/2.5/3 BA

2/2.5 BA

3BA

efficiencies

Other

Total

spaces

units

ceilings

Lofts

Fireplaces

closet

or sunroom

bookcases

Carports

garages

garages

systems

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Oakland-East Bay, CA

Avalon at Union Square



—

—

—

—

—



None

None

None

Most

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon at Willow Creek


—


—

—

—

—



All

None

None

None

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon Dublin





—

—




Most

Some

None

Most

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Fremont I


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

Some

Half

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon Pleasanton


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

Some

All

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

None

Waterford


—


—

—

—

—



Some

Some

None

None

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

San Francisco, CA

Avalon at Cedar Ridge




—

—


—



None

None

Some

None

Some

All

None

Yes

No

Yes

None

Avalon at Diamond Heights


—



—

—

—



None

Some

None

None

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Mission Bay North


—



—


—



All

None

Some

None

All

Most

Some

No

Yes

No

Some

Avalon at Nob Hill


—


—

—


—



None

None

None

None

Some

Some

Most

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Foster City




—

—


—



None

None

None

None

Most

All

Some

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon Pacifica




—

—

—

—



None

None

None

Some

Some

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Sunset Towers




—

—


—



None

None

None

None

None

Some

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon Towers by the Bay


—


—


—

—



All

None

None

Some

Half

Most

None

No

No

No

None

Crowne Ridge




—

—


—



Some

Some

None

Some

None

All

None

Yes

No

Yes

None

San Jose, CA

Avalon at Blossom Hill


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

None

Most

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon at Cahill Park


—


—


—

—



All

Some

Some

None

All

Some

None

No

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Creekside



—

—

—


—



None

None

None

Some

None

Most

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon at Foxchase I & II


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

None

None

ALL

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Parkside


—



—

—

—



All

Some

None

Half

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Pruneyard



—

—

—

—

—



All

None

None

None

None

Half

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at River Oaks


—


—

—

—

—



Most

None

None

Most

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Campbell


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

None

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

All

Avalon Cupertino


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

Some

Some

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Mountain View


—



—

—

—



All

Some

None

None

Some

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon on the Alameda


—


—


—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

Some

Yes

No

None

Avalon Rosewalk


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

Some

ALL

All

Most

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Silicon Valley


—





—


2,000

All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Towers on the Peninsula


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

None

Most

All

None

No

No

Yes

None

CountryBrook


—


—

—

—

—



All

None

None

All

None

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

San Marino


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

None

None

None

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Los Angeles, CA

Avalon at Media Center





—


—



Most

Some

None

Some

Some

Some

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Warner Center





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Some

Some

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Glendale


—


—


—

—



All

None

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

No

No

All

Avalon Woodland Hills


—


—

—

—

—


1,356

Some

Some

Some

None

Most

All

None

No

No

No

None

The Promenade


—



—

—

—



Some

Some

Some

All

Some

All

None

No

No

No

None


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Washer &

Large

Non-

1 BR

2BR

3BR

dryer

storage or

Balcony,

direct

Direct

Homes w/ pre-

Studios /

Parking

hook-ups or

Vaulted

walk-in

patio, deck

Built-in

access

access

wired security

1/1.5 BA

1/1.5 BA

2/2.5/3 BA

2/2.5 BA

3BA

efficiencies

Other

Total

spaces

units

ceilings

Lofts

Fireplaces

closet

or sunroom

bookcases

Carports

garages

garages

systems

Orange County, CA

Avalon at Pacific Bay




—

—

—

—



All

None

None

None

All

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at South Coast


—


—

—




Some

Half

None

None

Half

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Mission Viejo




—

—

—

—



None

None

None

None

None

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Newport



—


—


—



Most

Some

None

Some

Most

Most

Some

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Santa Margarita


—


—

—

—

—



All

None

None

None

None

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

San Diego, CA

Avalon at Cortez Hill


—


—

—


—



None

None

None

None

None

All

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Mission Bay




—

—


—



None

None

None

None

Some

All

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Mission Ridge





—

—

—



Most

None

None

Most

Most

Most

Most

No

Yes

No

None

DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES

Avalon at Bedford Center


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Some

All

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon at Decoverly II


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

None

Some

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Glen Cove North



—

—

—


—



All

None

None

None

All

Some

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Lyndhurst




—

—


—



Most

Some

Some

None

All

Most

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon Wilshire


—



—

—

—



All

None

None

None

All

Most

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Camarillo


—

—


—

—

—



All

None

None

None

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

None

Avalon Chestnut Hill





—


—



All

None

Some

None

All

All

None

No

No

No

All

Avalon Chrystie Place II



—

—

—


—



All

None

None

None

Some

Some

None

No

No

Yes

Some

Avalon Danvers


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Some

Some

None

No

Yes

Yes

None

Avalon Del Rey


—

—


—

—

—



All

None

Some

None

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Pines II


—


—

—

—

—



All

Most

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Some

Some

All

Avalon Riverview North


—


—



—



Some

None

None

None

Some

Some

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Shrewsbury





—

—

—



All

None

Some

None

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

None

Avalon Woburn


—


—

—

—

—



All

None

Some

Some

All

Some

None

No

Yes

No

None


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Community

Building

Buildings w/

entrance

entrance

Under-

Aerobics

Indoor /

security

controlled

controlled

ground

dance

Picnic

Walking /

Sauna /

Tennis

Fitness

Sand

outdoor

Clubhouse /

Business

systems

access

access

parking

studio

Car wash

area

jogging trail

Pool

whirlpool

court

Racquetball

center

volleyball

basketball

clubroom

center

Tot lot

Concierge

CURRENT COMMUNITIES (1)

NORTHEAST

Boston, MA

Avalon at Center Place

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Crane Brook

Some

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Avalon at Faxon Park

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Flanders Hill

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Lexington

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Newton Highlands

All

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Avalon at Prudential Center

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Steven’s Pond

All

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at The Pinehills I

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Essex

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Estates

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Ledges

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Oaks

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Oaks West

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Orchards

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Summit

None

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon West

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Essex Place

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Fairfield-New Haven, CT

Avalon at Greyrock Place

All

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon Corners

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon Danbury

Some

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Darien

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Gates

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Glen

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon Haven

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Avalon Milford I

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon New Canaan

All

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon on Stamford Harbor

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon Orange

Some

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Springs

Some

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Valley

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Walk I & II

None

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Long Island, NY

Avalon at Glen Cove South

None

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon Commons

All

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Court

All

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Pines I

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Towers

None

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Northern New Jersey

Avalon at Edgewater

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon at Florham Park

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Cove

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Central New Jersey

Avalon at Freehold

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Run East

All

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Run East II

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Watch

None

No

Some

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Community

Building

Buildings w/

entrance

entrance

Under-

Aerobics

Indoor /

security

controlled

controlled

ground

dance

Picnic

Walking /

Sauna /

Tennis

Fitness

Sand

outdoor

Clubhouse /

Business

systems

access

access

parking

studio

Car wash

area

jogging trail

Pool

whirlpool

court

Racquetball

center

volleyball

basketball

clubroom

center

Tot lot

Concierge

New York, NY

Avalon Gardens

Some

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Green

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon on the Sound

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Avalon Riverview I

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon View

Some

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Willow

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

The Avalon

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

MID-ATLANTIC

Baltimore, MD

Avalon at Fairway Hills I & II

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon at Fairway Hills III

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon at Symphony Glen

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Landing

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Washington, DC

AutumnWoods

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Arlington Square

None

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon at Ballston — Washington Towers

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Cameron Court

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon at Decoverly

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Foxhall

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Gallery Place I

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon at Grosvenor Station

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon at Providence Park

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon at Rock Spring

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon at Traville

None

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon Crescent

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon Fields I & II

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Knoll

None

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

MIDWEST

Chicago, IL

200 Arlington Place

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at Danada Farms

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at Stratford Green

All

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at West Grove

None

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

PACIFIC NORTHWEST

Seattle, WA

Avalon at Bear Creek

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Bellevue

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon Belltown

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Brandemoor

All

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon HighGrove

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Juanita Village

Some

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon ParcSquare

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon Redmond Place

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon RockMeadow

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon WildReed

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Wynhaven

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Community

Building

Buildings w/

entrance

entrance

Under-

Aerobics

Indoor /

security

controlled

controlled

ground

dance

Picnic

Walking /

Sauna /

Tennis

Fitness

Sand

outdoor

Clubhouse /

Business

systems

access

access

parking

studio

Car wash

area

jogging trail

Pool

whirlpool

court

Racquetball

center

volleyball

basketball

clubroom

center

Tot lot

Concierge

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Oakland-East Bay, CA

Avalon at Union Square

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Willow Creek

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Dublin

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Avalon Fremont I

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Pleasanton

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Waterford

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

San Francisco, CA

Avalon at Cedar Ridge

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at Diamond Heights

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at Mission Bay North

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Nob Hill

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Foster City

Some

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Pacifica

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Sunset Towers

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Towers by the Bay

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Crowne Ridge

None

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

San Jose, CA

Avalon at Blossom Hill

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon at Cahill Park

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon at Creekside

Some

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon at Foxchase I & II

None

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon at Parkside

None

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon at Pruneyard

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at River Oaks

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Avalon Campbell

None

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Cupertino

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Avalon Mountain View

None

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon on the Alameda

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Rosewalk

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Silicon Valley

Some

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon Towers on the Peninsula

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

CountryBrook

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

San Marino

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Los Angeles, CA

Avalon at Media Center

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Warner Center

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Glendale

None

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Woodland Hills

None

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

The Promenade

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Community

Building

Buildings w/

entrance

entrance

Under-

Aerobics

Indoor /

security

controlled

controlled

ground

dance

Picnic

Walking /

Sauna /

Tennis

Fitness

Sand

outdoor

Clubhouse /

Business

systems

access

access

parking

studio

Car wash

area

jogging trail

Pool

whirlpool

court

Racquetball

center

volleyball

basketball

clubroom

center

Tot lot

Concierge

Orange County, CA

Avalon at Pacific Bay

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon at South Coast

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon Mission Viejo

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Avalon Newport

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Avalon Santa Margarita

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

San Diego, CA

Avalon at Cortez Hill

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon at Mission Bay

None

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon at Mission Ridge

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES

Avalon at Bedford Center

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Decoverly II

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Glen Cove North

All

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Lyndhurst

All

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Wilshire

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Camarillo

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Chestnut Hill

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Avalon Chrystie Place II

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon Danvers

Some

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon Del Rey

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon Pines II

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Riverview North

None

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon Shrewsbury

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Woburn

Some

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No


Development Communities

As of December 31, 2005, we had 15 Development Communities under construction. We expect these
Development Communities, when completed, to add a total of 4,062 apartment homes to our portfolio
for a total capitalized cost, including land acquisition costs, of approximately $1,025,200,000.
You should carefully review Item 1a., “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated with
development activity.

The following table presents a summary of the Development Communities. We hold a direct or
indirect fee simple ownership interest in these communities except where noted.

Total

Number of

capitalized

apartment

cost (1)

Construction

Initial

Estimated

Estimated

homes

($ millions)

start

occupancy (2)

completion

stabilization (3)

1.

Avalon Del Rey (4)

Los Angeles, CA


$

70.0

Q2 2004

Q1 2006

Q2 2006

Q1 2007

2.

Avalon Camarillo

Camarillo, CA


47.2

Q2 2004

Q1 2006

Q2 2006

Q4 2006

3.

Avalon at Bedford Center

Bedford, MA


25.3

Q4 2004

Q3 2005

Q2 2006

Q4 2006

4.

Avalon Wilshire

Los Angeles, CA


46.6

Q1 2005

Q4 2006

Q1 2007

Q3 2007

5.

Avalon at Mission Bay

North II (5)

San Francisco, CA


118.0

Q1 2005

Q4 2006

Q2 2007

Q4 2007

6.

Avalon Pines II

Coram, NY


26.6

Q2 2005

Q1 2006

Q3 2006

Q1 2007

7.

Avalon Chestnut Hill

Chestnut Hill, MA


60.6

Q2 2005

Q4 2006

Q1 2007

Q3 2007

8.

Avalon at Decoverly II

Rockville, MD


30.5

Q3 2005

Q3 2006

Q2 2007

Q4 2007

9.

Avalon Lyndhurst

Lyndhurst, NJ


78.8

Q3 2005

Q4 2006

Q2 2007

Q4 2007

10.

Avalon Shrewsbury

Shrewsbury, MA


36.1

Q3 2005

Q4 2006

Q2 2007

Q4 2007

11.

Avalon Riverview North

New York, NY


175.6

Q3 2005

Q3 2007

Q3 2008

Q1 2009

12.

Avalon Chrystie Place II

New York, NY


100.8

Q4 2005

Q1 2007

Q3 2007

Q1 2008

13.

Avalon at Glen Cove North

Glen Cove, NY


42.4

Q4 2005

Q2 2007

Q3 2007

Q1 2008

14.

Avalon Danvers

Danvers, MA


84.8

Q4 2005

Q1 2007

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

15.

Avalon Woburn

Woburn, MA


81.9

Q4 2005

Q1 2007

Q1 2008

Q3 2008

Total

4,062

$

1,025.2


Redevelopment Communities

As of December 31, 2005, we had two communities under redevelopment. We expect the total
capitalized cost to complete these communities, including the cost of acquisition, capital
expenditures subsequent to acquisition and redevelopment, to be approximately $58,800,000, of which
approximately $10,000,000 is the additional capital invested or expected to be invested during
redevelopment and $48,800,000 was incurred prior to redevelopment. Statements regarding the future
redevelopment or performance of the Redevelopment Communities are forward-looking statements. We
have found that the cost to redevelop an existing apartment community is more difficult to budget
and estimate than the cost to develop a new community. Accordingly, we expect that actual costs
may vary from our budget by a wider range than for a new development community. We cannot assure
you that we will meet our schedule for reconstruction completion or restabilized operations, or
that we will meet our budgeted costs, either individually or in the aggregate. You should
carefully review Item 1a., “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated with
redevelopment activity.

The following presents a summary of these Redevelopment Communities:

Total cost

Number of

($ millions)

Estimated

Estimated

apartment

Pre-redevelopment

Total capitalized

Reconstruction

reconstruction

restabilized

homes

cost

cost (1)

start

completion

operations (2)

1.

Avalon at Fairway Hills III

Columbia, MD


$

23.3

$

29.4

Q4 2004

Q2 2006

Q4 2006

2.

Avalon Columbia (3)

Columbia, MD


25.5

29.4

Q2 2005

Q2 2006

Q4 2006

Total


$

48.8

$

58.8

Development Rights

As of December 31, 2005, we are evaluating the future development of 47 new apartment communities
on land that is either owned by us, under contract, subject to a leasehold interest or for which we
hold a purchase option. We generally hold Development Rights through options to acquire land,
although for 17 of the Development Rights we currently own the land on which a community would be
built if we proceeded with development. The Development Rights range from those beginning design
and architectural planning to those that have completed site plans and drawings and can begin
construction almost immediately. We estimate that the successful completion of all of these
communities would ultimately add 12,495 apartment homes to our portfolio. Substantially all of
these apartment homes will offer features like those offered by the communities we currently own.
At December 31, 2005, there were cumulative capitalized costs (including legal fees, design fees
and related overhead costs, but excluding land costs) of $31,467,000 relating to Development Rights
that we consider probable for future development. In addition, land costs related to the pursuit
of Development Rights (consisting of original land and additional carrying costs) of $188,414,000
are reflected as land held for development as of December 31, 2005 on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.


The properties comprising the Development Rights are in different stages of the due diligence and
regulatory approval process. The decisions as to which of the Development Rights to invest in, if
any, or to continue to pursue once an investment in a Development Right is made, are business
judgments that we make after we perform financial, demographic and other analyses. In the event
that we do not proceed with a Development Right, we generally would not recover capitalized costs
incurred in the pursuit of those communities, unless we were to recover amounts in connection with
the sale of land; however, we cannot guarantee a recovery. Pre-development costs incurred in the
pursuit of Development Rights for which future development is not yet considered probable are
expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, deeming future
development no longer probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are written-off with a charge
to expense.

You should carefully review Section 1a., “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated
with Development Rights.

The table on the following page presents a summary of the 47 Development Rights we are currently
pursuing.


Total

Estimated

capitalized

number

cost

Location

of homes

($ millions) (1)

1.

New Rochelle, NY Phase II


$


2.

Bellevue, WA

(2)



3.

Dublin, CA Phase I

(2)



4.

New York, NY Phase III

(2)



5.

Lexington, MA



6.

Encino, CA

(2)



7.

Canoga Park, CA



8.

Acton, MA



9.

Hingham, MA



10.

Quincy, MA

(2)



11.

Wilton, CT

(2)



12.

Norwalk, CT



13.

Cohasset, MA



14.

Irvine, CA



15.

Northborough, MA



16.

New York, NY



17.

Plymouth, MA Phase II



18.

Tinton Falls, NJ



19.

Oyster Bay, NY



20.

White Plains, NY



21.

Sharon, MA



22.

Kirkland, WA Phase II

(2)



23.

Milford, CT

(2)



24.

Brooklyn, NY



25.

Greenburgh, NY Phase II



26.

Dublin, CA Phase II



27.

Dublin, CA Phase III



28.

Shelton, CT II



29.

Andover, MA

(2)



30.

West Haven, CT



31.

Union City, CA Phase I

(2)(3)



32.

Union City, CA Phase II

(2)(3)



33.

Hackensack, NJ



34.

Stratford, CT

(2)



35.

West Long Branch, NJ

(4)



36.

Plainview, NY



37.

Gaithersburg, MD



38.

Highland Park, NJ



39.

Camarillo, CA



40.

Pleasant Hill, CA

(4)



41.

Shelton, CT



42.

Wanaque, NJ



43.

Alexandria, VA

(2)(3)



44.

Wheaton, MD

(2)(3)



45.

Yaphank, NY

(2)



46.

Tysons Corner, VA

(2)(3)



47.

Rockville, MD

(2)(3)



Total

12,495

$

2,962


Recent Developments

Sales of Existing Communities.

We seek to increase our geographical concentration in selected high
barrier-to-entry markets where we believe we can:

•

apply sufficient market and management presence to enhance revenue growth;

•

reduce operating expenses; and

•

leverage management talent.

To achieve this increased concentration, we (i) sell assets that do not meet our long-term
investment strategy or when capital and real estate markets allow us to realize a portion of the
value created over the past business cycle and (ii) redeploy the proceeds from those sales to
develop, redevelop and acquire communities. Pending such redeployment, we will generally use the
proceeds from the sale of these communities to reduce amounts outstanding under our variable rate
unsecured credit facility. On occasion, we will set aside the proceeds from the sale of
communities into a cash escrow account to facilitate a nontaxable, like-kind exchange transaction.
We sold nine communities, containing an aggregate of 1,778 apartment homes, during the period from
January 1, 2005 through January 31, 2006. Net proceeds from the sale of these assets were
$464,546,000.


Land Acquisitions

. We carefully select land for development and follow established procedures that
we believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development.
During 2005, we acquired 15 land
parcels for an aggregate purchase price of $119,719,000. The land parcels purchased, which are
currently held for future development, are as follows:

Estimated

Total

number

capitalized

Gross

of apartment

cost (1)

Date

Construction

acres

homes

($ millions)

acquired

start (2)

1.

Avalon at Bedford Center

19.5


$


January 2005


Bedford, MA

2.

Avalon at Decoverly II

10.8



February 2005


Rockville, MD

3.

Avalon Shrewsbury

25.5



July 2005


Shrewsbury, MA

4.

Avalon Woburn (3)

46.6



December 2005


Woburn, MA

5.

Avalon Danvers (3)

60.5



December 2005


Danvers, MA

6.

Avalon Meydenbauer

3.6



December 2005


Bellevue, WA

7.

Avalon at Dublin Station I

4.7



April 2005


Dublin, CA

8.

Avalon Chrystie Place III

0.5



June 2005


New York, NY

9.

Avalon Springs II

10.6



March 2005


Wilton, CT

10.

Avalon at Juanita Village II

2.3



April 2005


Kirkland, WA

11.

Avalon at St. Clare

9.1



February 2005


Andover, MA

12.

Avalon at Wheaton

0.2



January 2005


Wheaton, MD

13.

Avalon at Stratford

12.2



March 2005


Stratford,CT

14.

Avalon at Eisenhower West (4)

5.2



April 2005


Alexandria, VA

15.

Avalon Mills

172.0



April 2005


Yaphank, NY

Total

383.3

3,714

$


(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred
to develop the respective Development Community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including
land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan
fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees.

(2)

Future construction start dates are estimates. There can be no assurance that we will pursue
to completion any or all of these proposed developments.

(3)

Excludes portion of land acquired that is not held for future development.

(4)

Represents improved land encumbered with debt. The improved land consists of industrial
space.

Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses

We carry commercial general liability insurance and property insurance with respect to all of
our communities. These policies, and other insurance policies we carry, have policy
specifications, insured limits and deductibles that we consider commercially reasonable. There
are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses arising from acts of war) that are not
insured, in full or in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it,
in management’s view, economically impractical. You should carefully review Item 1a., “Risk
Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated with an uninsured property or liability loss.

Many of our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults.
A large concentration of our communities lie near, and thus are susceptible to, the major fault
lines in California, including


the San Andreas fault and the Hayward fault. We cannot assure you
that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels. We have in place
with respect to communities located in California, for any single occurrence and in the aggregate,
$75,000,000 of coverage with a deductible per building equal to five percent of the insured value
of that building. The five percent deductible is subject to a minimum of $100,000 per occurrence.
Earthquake coverage outside of California is subject to a $200,000,000 limit, except with respect
to the state of Washington, for which the limit is $65,000,000. Our earthquake insurance outside of California provides for a $100,000 deductible per
occurrence. In addition, up to a policy aggregate of $3,000,000, the next $400,000 of loss per
occurrence outside California will be treated as an additional deductible.

Our annual general liability policy and workman’s compensation coverage was renewed on August 1,
2005 and the insurance coverage provided for in these renewal policies did not materially change
from the preceding year. Including the costs we estimate that we may incur as a result of
deductibles, we expect the cost related to these insurance categories for the policy period from
August 1, 2005 to July 31, 2006 to decrease 5% to 7% as compared to the prior period.

In an effort to capitalize on declining insurance rates we elected to extend the first $15,000,000
layer of the property insurance policy by five months, thereby changing the renewal date for this
layer to May 1, 2006. The remaining layers renewed on December 1, 2005. We are currently in
negotiations with all carriers to align the renewal dates. The costs associated with the excess
property insurance layers including the cost we estimate we may incur as a result of deductibles
increased by approximately 12%.

Just as with office buildings, transportation systems and government buildings, there have been
reports that apartment communities could become targets of terrorism. In December 2005, Congress
passed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act (“TRIEA”) which is designed to make terrorism
insurance available. In connection with this legislation, we have purchased insurance for property
damage due to terrorism up to $200,000,000. Additionally, we have purchased insurance for certain
terrorist acts, not covered under TRIEA, such as domestic-based terrorism. This insurance, often
referred to as “non-certified” terrorism insurance, is subject to deductibles, limits and
exclusions. Our general liability policy provides TRIEA coverage (subject to deductibles and
insured limits) for liability to third parties that result from terrorist acts at our communities.
TRIEA is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2007. It is uncertain if Congress will extend this
act and continue to provide federal support for terrorism insurance. If Congress does not extend
TRIEA, the cost and availability of terrorism insurance may be in question.

Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials,
particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of
time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to
remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years
that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or
other reactions. To help limit mold growth, we educate residents about the importance of adequate
ventilation and request or require that they notify us when they see mold or excessive moisture.
We have established procedures for promptly addressing and remediating mold or excessive moisture
from apartment homes when we become aware of its presence regardless of whether we or the resident
believe a health risk is present. However, we cannot assure that mold or excessive moisture will
be detected and remediated in a timely manner. If a significant mold problem arises at one of our
communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove
the mold from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities. We cannot assure
that we will have coverage under our existing policies for property damage or liability to third parties arising as a result of exposure
to mold or a claim of exposure to mold at one of our communities.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are currently involved in litigation alleging that communities constructed by us violate the
accessibility requirements of the Fair Housing Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act. The
lawsuit,

Equal Rights Center v. AvalonBay Communities, Inc.,

was filed on September 23, 2005 in the
federal district court in Maryland. The plaintiff seeks compensatory and punitive damages in
unspecified amounts as well as injunctive relief (such as


modification of existing assets), an
award of attorneys’ fees, expenses and costs of suit. The Company has filed a motion to

dismiss all or parts of the suit, which has not been ruled on yet by the court. Due to the
preliminary nature of the litigation, we cannot predict or determine the outcome of this lawsuit,
nor is it reasonably possible to estimate the amount of loss, if any, that would be associated with
an adverse decision or settlement.

We are currently involved in a lawsuit regarding the handling of security deposits in
California. The lawsuit,

Julie E. Ko v. AvalonBay Communities, Inc. and Does 1 through 100,

was
filed on June 6, 2003, in California’s Los Angeles Superior Court. The suit purports to be brought
on behalf of all of the Company’s former California residents who, during a four-year period, paid
a security deposit to the Company for the rental of residential property in California and
allegedly had a portion of the deposit withheld by the Company in excess of the damages actually
sustained by the Company. We have agreed with the plaintiff on the terms of a settlement with the
purported class. The settlement terms have been approved by the court, subject to final
certification and approval after administration of the settlement, which is expected in April 2006.
The Company has accrued for the costs it expects to incur in connection with the settlement,
although there can be no assurance that the final settlement cost (which depends on the number of
claims properly submitted) will not exceed the Company’s estimate.

We are
involved in litigation with York Hunter Construction, Inc. and
National Union Fire Insurance Company related to a community that has
since completed development. A non-jury trial in the Supreme Court
of the State of New York, County of Westchester, ended in April
2004, and in May 2004, the court issued a ruling finding that (i)
York Hunter breached the Construction Management Agreement between it
and the Company in failing to complete the project and abandoning the
construction site and is therefore liable to the Company for
consequential damages, and (ii) National Union, having failed to
exercise its various rights to perform and complete, is liable to the
Company for consequential damages. The court issued a ruling dated
October 6, 2004, awarding the Company approximately $1,250,000
plus interest. The Company has filed an appeal to seek an
increase in the damage award.

We are involved in various other claims and/or administrative proceedings that arise in the
ordinary course of our business. While no assurances can be given, we do not believe that any of
these outstanding litigation matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material
adverse effect on our operations.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of 2005.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Pacific Exchange (PCX)
under the ticker symbol AVB. We are in the process of delisting our shares on the PCX. The
following table sets forth the quarterly high and low sales prices per share of our common stock for the years 2005 and 2004, as reported by the NYSE. On January 31, 2006 there were
1,178 holders of record of an aggregate of 73,998,786 shares of our outstanding common stock. The
number of holders does not include individuals or entities who beneficially own shares but whose
shares are held of record by a broker or clearing agency, but does include each such broker or
clearing agency as one record holder.



Sales Price

Dividends

Sales Price

Dividends

High

Low

declared

High

Low

declared

Quarter ended March 31

$

75.59

$

65.18

$

0.71

$

54.66

$

46.72

$

0.70

Quarter ended June 30

$

81.80

$

64.99

$

0.71

$

57.80

$

48.30

$

0.70

Quarter ended September

$

88.23

$

78.37

$

0.71

$

62.25

$

55.89

$

0.70

Quarter ended December 31

$

92.99

$

78.82

$

0.71

$

75.93

$

59.90

$

0.70

We expect to continue our policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends. However, dividend
distributions will be declared at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on
actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution
requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and other factors as the Board
of Directors may consider relevant. The Board of Directors may modify our dividend policy from
time to time. In January 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a dividend on our
common stock for the first quarter of 2006 of $0.78 per share, a 9.8% increase over the previous
quarterly dividend of $0.71 per share. The increased dividend is payable on April 17, 2006 to all
common stockholders of record as of March 31, 2006.

During the three months ended December 31, 2005, we did not issue shares of common stock in
exchange for units of limited partnership held by certain limited partners.

Our Board of Directors has adopted a Stock Repurchase Program under which we may acquire, from time
to time, shares of common stock in the open market with an aggregate purchase price of up to
$100,000,000. No purchases were made under this program in 2005. In determining whether to
repurchase shares, we consider a variety of factors, including our liquidity needs, the then
current market price of our shares and the effect of the share repurchases on our per share
earnings and FFO.

Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is
included in the section entitled “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
and Related Stockholder Matters” on page 65 of this Form 10-K.


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following table provides historical consolidated financial, operating and other data for
AvalonBay Communities, Inc. You should read the table with our Consolidated Financial Statements
and the Notes included in this report (dollars in thousands, except
per share information).

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

12-31-02

12-31-01

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

666,376

$

613,240

$

556,582

$

531,595

$

521,805

Management, development and other fees

4,304



2,145

1,386

Total revenue

670,680

613,844

557,513

533,740

523,191

Expenses:

Operating expenses, excluding property taxes

191,558

181,351

164,253

147,965

133,352

Property taxes

65,487

59,458

53,257

47,580

43,178

Interest expense

127,099

131,103

130,178

114,282

92,597

Depreciation expense

158,822

151,991

138,725

121,995

106,670

General and administrative expense

25,761

18,074

14,830

13,449

14,705

Impairment loss

—

—

—

6,800

—

Total expenses

568,727

541,977

501,243

452,071

390,502

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

7,198

1,100

25,535



Venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

(1,178

)

(1,688

)

(857

)

1,158

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

(1,481

)

(150

)

(950

)

(865

)

(948

)

Income before gain on sale of real estate assets

107,670

71,639

79,167

80,002

133,755

Gain on sale of real estate assets

—

—

—

—

62,852

Income from continuing operations before cumulative
effect of change in accounting principle

107,670

71,639

79,167

80,002

196,607

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

14,942

21,134

31,368

44,723

52,390

Gain on sale of real estate assets

199,766

122,425

160,990

48,893

—

Total discontinued operations

214,708

143,559

192,358

93,616

52,390

Income before cumulative effect of change
in accounting principle

322,378

215,198

271,525

173,618

248,997

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

4,547

—

—

—

Net income

322,378

219,745

271,525

173,618

248,997

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(10,744

)

(17,896

)

(40,035

)

Net income available to common stockholders

$

313,678

$

211,045

$

260,781

$

155,722

$

208,962

Per Common Share and Share Information:

Earnings per common share — basic

Income from continuing operations
(net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

1.36

$

0.94

$

1.00

$

0.90

$

1.38

Discontinued operations

$

2.94

$

2.01

$

2.80

$

1.36

$

1.70

Net income available to common stockholders

$

4.30

$

2.95

$

3.80

$

2.26

$

3.08

Weighted average common shares outstanding — basic

72,952,492

71,564,202

68,559,657

68,772,139

67,842,752

Earnings per common share — diluted

Income from continuing operations
(net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

1.34

$

0.94

$

0.99

$

0.89

$

1.36

Discontinued operations

$

2.87

$

1.98

$

2.74

$

1.34

$

1.66

Net income available to common stockholders

$

4.21

$

2.92

$

3.73

$

2.23

$

3.02

Weighted average common shares outstanding — diluted

74,759,318

73,354,956

70,203,467

70,674,211

69,781,719

Cash dividends declared

$

2.84

$

2.80

$

2.80

$

2.80

$

2.56


For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

12-31-02

12-31-01

Other Information:

Net income

$

322,378

$

219,745

$

271,525

$

173,618

$

248,997

Depreciation — continuing operations

158,822

151,991

138,725

121,995

106,670

Depreciation — discontinued operations

3,241

10,676

15,071

22,482

23,409

Interest expense, net — continuing operations

127,099

131,103

130,178

114,282

92,597

Interest expense, net — discontinued operations

—


2,399

3,122

3,783

EBITDA (1)

$

611,540

$

514,040

$

557,898

$

435,499

$

475,456

Funds from Operations (2)

$

281,773

$

246,247

$

230,566

$

251,410

$

275,755

Number of Current Communities (3)






Number of apartment homes

41,412

40,142

38,504

40,179

37,228

Balance Sheet Information:

Real estate, before accumulated depreciation

$

5,903,168

$

5,697,144

$

5,431,757

$

5,369,453

$

4,837,869

Total assets

$

5,165,060

$

5,081,249

$

4,909,582

$

4,950,835

$

4,664,289

Notes payable and unsecured credit facilities

$

2,366,564

$

2,451,354

$

2,337,817

$

2,471,163

$

2,082,769

Cash Flow Information:

Net cash flows provided by operating activities

$

306,639

$

275,617

$

239,677

$

307,810

$

320,528

Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities

$

(19,761

)

$

(251,683

)

$

33,935

$

(435,796

)

$

(274,941

)

Net cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities

$

(282,293

)

$

(29,471

)

$

(279,465

)

$

68,008

$

(29,909

)

Notes to Selected Financial Data

(1)

EBITDA is defined by us as net income before interest income and expense, income taxes,
depreciation and amortization from both continuing and discontinued operations. Under this
definition, which complies with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, EBITDA includes gains on sale of assets and gain on sale of partnership interests.
Management generally considers EBITDA to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income
of our operating performance because it helps investors to understand our ability to incur and
service debt and to make capital expenditures. EBITDA should not be considered as an
alternative to net income (as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, or “GAAP”), as an indicator of our operating performance, or to cash flows from
operating activities (as determined in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of liquidity. Our
calculation of EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA as calculated by other companies.

(2)

We generally consider Funds from Operations, or “FFO,” to be an appropriate supplemental
measure of our operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related
to dispositions of previously depreciated property and excluding real estate depreciation, which
can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost
accounting and useful life estimates, FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a
real estate company between periods or as compared to different companies. We believe that in
order to understand our operating results, FFO should be examined with net income as presented
in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income included
elsewhere in this report.

Consistent with the definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts

â

(“NAREIT”), we calculate FFO as net income or loss
computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for:

•

gains or losses on sales of previously depreciated operating communities;

•

extraordinary gains or losses (as defined by GAAP);

•

cumulative effect of change in accounting principle;

•

depreciation of real estate assets; and

•

adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

FFO does not represent net income in accordance with GAAP, and therefore it should not be
considered an alternative to net income, which remains the primary measure, as an indication of
our performance. In addition, FFO as calculated by other REITs may not be comparable to our
calculation of FFO.


The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO (dollars in thousands, except per share
data):

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

12-31-02

12-31-01

Net income

$

322,378

$

219,745

$

271,525

$

173,618

$

248,997

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(10,744

)

(17,896

)

(40,035

)

Depreciation — real estate assets,
including discontinued operations and
joint venture adjustments

162,019

157,988

128,278

142,980

128,086

Minority interest expense,
including discontinued operations

1,363

3,048

1,263

1,601

1,559

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

(4,547

)

—

—

—

Gain on sale
of previously depreciated real estate assets

(195,287

)

(121,287

)

(159,756

)

(48,893

)

(62,852

)

Funds from Operations
attributable to common stockholders

$

281,773

$

246,247

$

230,566

$

251,410

$

275,755

Weighted average common shares outstanding — diluted

74,759,318

73,354,956

70,203,467

70,674,211

69,781,719

FFO per common share — diluted

$

3.77

$

3.36

$

3.28

$

3.55

$

3.95

FFO also does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP,
and therefore should not be considered an alternative to net cash flows from operating activities,
as determined by GAAP, as a measure of liquidity. Additionally, it is not necessarily indicative
of cash available to fund cash needs. A presentation of GAAP based cash flow metrics is provided
in “Cash Flow Information” in the table on the previous page.

(3)

Current Communities consist of all communities other than those which are still under
construction and have not received a certificate of occupancy.


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

We are primarily engaged in developing, acquiring, owning and operating apartment communities in
high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. We seek to create long-term shareholder value
by accessing capital on cost effective terms; deploying that capital to develop, redevelop and
acquire apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets; operating apartment communities;
and selling communities when they no longer meet our long-term investment strategy and when pricing
is attractive.

The net operating income of our current operating
communities, as defined later in this report, is one of
the financial measures that we use to evaluate community performance. Net operating income is
affected by the demand and supply dynamics within our markets, our rental rates and occupancy
levels, and our ability to control operating costs. Our overall financial performance is also
impacted by the general availability and cost of capital and the performance of our newly developed
and acquired apartment communities.

This report, including the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results
of operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events or trends as described
more fully under “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 61 of this report. Actual results
or
developments could differ materially from those projected in such statements as a result of the
risk factors described in Item 1a, “Risk Factors,” of this report. The following discussion and
analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with
our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes included elsewhere in this report.

Business Description and Community Information Overview

We believe that apartment communities present an attractive long-term investment opportunity
compared to other real estate investments because a broad potential resident base should help
reduce demand volatility over a real estate cycle. We intend to continue to pursue real estate
investments in markets where constraints to new supply exist, and where new rental household
formations are expected to out-pace multifamily permit activity over the course of the real
estate cycle. Barriers-to-entry in our markets generally include a difficult and lengthy
entitlement process with local jurisdictions and dense urban or suburban areas where zoned and
entitled land is in limited supply.

We regularly evaluate the allocation of our investments by the amount of invested capital and by
product type within our individual markets, which are located in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic,
Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern California regions of the United States. Our
strategy is to more deeply penetrate these markets with a broad range of products and services and
an intense focus on our customer. A substantial majority of our communities are upscale, which
generally command among the highest rents in their markets. However, we also pursue the ownership
and operation of apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and price points,
consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products and services.

We believe that, over an entire real estate cycle, lower housing affordability and the limited new
supply of apartment homes in our markets will result in a higher propensity to rent and larger
increases in cash flow relative to other markets. However, throughout the real estate cycle,
apartment market fundamentals, and therefore operating cash flows, are affected by overall economic
conditions. A number of our markets experienced economic contraction due to job losses in 2002 and
2003, particularly in the technology, telecom and financial services sectors. This resulted in a
prolonged period of weak apartment market fundamentals as reflected in declining rental rates and
demand. However, 2004 was a year of transition, where the economy showed signs of an early phase
recovery, as evidenced by modest job growth and declining unemployment claims. The improvement in
the economic environment in 2005 has resulted in stronger apartment market fundamentals.


This is supported by the following operating results achieved within our Established Community
portfolio during 2005:

•

we achieved year-over-year revenue growth;

•

we transitioned from occupancy gains to increases in rental rates as the primary driver
of rental revenue growth;

•

we achieved the highest year-over-year increase in average rental rates in four years; and

•

average economic occupancy was at or above 95% in each of our markets.

Based on these results and our expectations for improving demand/supply
fundamentals, we expect
continued growth in the revenue and net operating income generated by our operating communities in 2006. We expect continued job growth and
household formation in our markets in 2006, the principal drivers of housing demand. Condominium
conversion activity has reduced the availability of rental apartments, while low single-family home
affordability makes rental apartments an economically attractive housing alternative. Accordingly,
we expect apartment market fundamentals to continue to improve in our markets such that apartment
rental demand will outpace new supply, resulting in rental revenue growth of 5.0% to 6.0% in our
Established Community portfolio in 2006, and projected NOI growth of 6.0% to 7.0%.

In positioning for future growth, we increased our development volume. We currently have in excess
of $1,000,000,000 under construction (measured by total projected capitalized cost of the
communities at completion, including the portions owned by joint venture partners). In addition,
we continue to secure new Development Rights, as discussed below, including the acquisition of land
for future development. We currently have Development Rights for construction of new apartment
communities that, based on total projected capitalized cost, total approximately $3,000,000,000.
We anticipate starting new developments with total projected capitalized costs of $700,000,000 to
$800,000,000 in 2006. These total projected capitalized costs may be impacted by increasing
construction costs, particularly in the areas of payroll, utilities, concrete and steel. We also
anticipate acquiring additional land held for future development for an aggregate purchase price of
$75,000,000 to $100,000,000.

We continue to look for opportunities to acquire existing communities through
 our investment in and management of a
discretionary investment fund (the “Fund”). During its
investment period (which will end on or before March 16, 2008), the Fund will be our
exclusive vehicle for acquiring apartment communities, subject to certain exceptions. The Fund
acquired four communities for an aggregate purchase price of $99,907,000 during 2005 and has
approximately $90,000,000 under contract for acquisition in early 2006. We will continue to focus
on acquisition opportunities where we believe we can create value, generally through redevelopment
or repositioning opportunities.

Strong capital flows to the industry and the strength of the condominium market have resulted in an
attractive selling environment. We sold seven communities during 2005 for an aggregate sales price
of approximately $350,000,000, of which approximately $315,000,000 was sold to condominium
converters. We anticipate asset sales of approximately $225,000,000 to $300,000,000 in 2006.

While the active condominium market has created demand for multifamily apartment communities, it
has also created a challenging environment for us in other ways such as:

•

increased competition for land, resulting in, at times, the acquisition of land zoned
for uses other than residential with the potential for rezoning;

•

increased competition for subcontractors;

•

increased competition for experienced multifamily development and construction
professionals, particularly in our markets;

•

increased competition for our customers, resulting in increased move-outs due to home ownership; and

•

increased risks as a result of sales to condominium converters.

There are indications that condominium conversion activity is slowing, which could impact the
market for our assets held for sale, and as a result, the volume of assets we offer for sale.


Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities,
communities in various stages of development (“Development Communities”) and Development Rights
(i.e., land or land options held for development), as further described in Item 2 of this report.
Our current operating communities are further distinguished as Established Communities, Other
Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities and Redevelopment Communities. Established
Communities are generally operating communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes and were owned and had stabilized
occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year, which allows the
performance of these communities and the markets in which they are located to be compared and
monitored between years. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other operating
communities that have stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the
current year, but had not achieved stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year. Lease-Up
Communities consist of communities where construction is complete but stabilization has not been
achieved. Redevelopment Communities consist of communities where substantial redevelopment is in
progress or is planned to begin during the current year. A more detailed description of our
reportable segments and other related operating information can be found in Note 9, “Segment
Reporting,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Although each of these categories is important to our business, we generally evaluate overall
operating, industry and market trends based on the operating results of Established Communities,
for which a detailed discussion can be found in “Results of Operations” as part of our discussion
of overall operating results. We evaluate our current and future cash needs and future operating
potential based on acquisition, disposition, development, redevelopment and financing activities
within Other Stabilized, Redevelopment and Development Communities, for which detailed discussions
can be found in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”

As of December 31, 2005, we owned or held an ownership interest in 158 apartment communities
containing 45,474 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which 15
communities were under construction and two communities were under reconstruction. In addition, we
owned a direct or indirect ownership interest in Development Rights to develop an additional 47
communities that, if developed in the manner expected, will contain an estimated 12,495 apartment
homes.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles (“GAAP”) requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies,
including making estimates and assumptions. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and
circumstances relating to various transactions had been different, or different estimates or
assumptions had been made, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been
applied, resulting in different financial results or a different presentation of our financial
statements. Below is a discussion of accounting policies that we consider critical to an
understanding of our financial condition and operating results and that may require complex
judgment in their application or require estimates about matters which are inherently uncertain.
As a REIT that owns, operates and develops apartment communities, our critical accounting policies
relate to revenue recognition, cost capitalization, asset impairment evaluation and REIT status. A
discussion of our significant accounting policies, including further discussion of the accounting
policies described below, can be found in Note 1, “Organization and Significant Accounting
Policies” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition

Rental income related to leases is recognized on an accrual basis when due from residents in
accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, “Revenue Recognition” and Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 13, “Accounting for Leases.” In accordance with our standard
lease terms, rental payments are generally due on a monthly basis. Any cash concessions given at
the inception of the lease are amortized over the approximate life of the lease, which is generally
one year. A discussion regarding the impact of cash concessions on rental revenue for Established
Communities can be found in “Results of Operations.”


Cost Capitalization

We capitalize costs during the development of assets (including
interest and related loan fees,
property taxes and other direct and indirect costs) beginning when development efforts commence
until the asset, or a portion of the asset, is delivered and is ready for its intended use, which
is generally indicated by the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. We capitalize costs during
redevelopment of apartment homes (including interest and related loan fees, property taxes and
other direct and indirect costs) beginning when an apartment home is taken out-of-service for
redevelopment until the apartment home redevelopment is completed and the apartment home is
available for a new resident. Rental income and operating expenses incurred during the initial
lease-up or post-redevelopment lease-up period are fully recognized as they accrue. We capitalize pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of Development Rights for which we
currently believe future development is probable. These costs include legal fees, design fees and
related overhead costs. Future development of these Development Rights is dependent upon various
factors, including zoning and regulatory approval, rental market conditions, construction costs and
availability of capital.

Pre-development costs incurred in the pursuit of Development Rights for
which future development is not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In addition, if
the status of a Development Right changes, making future development no longer probable, any
capitalized pre-development costs are written-off with a charge to expense.

We generally capitalize only non-recurring expenditures. We capitalize improvements and upgrades
only if the item: (i) exceeds $15,000; (ii) extends the useful life of the asset; and (iii) is not
related to making an apartment home ready for the next resident. Under this policy, virtually all
capitalized costs are non-recurring, as recurring make-ready costs are expensed as incurred.
Recurring make-ready costs include: (i) carpet and appliance replacements; (ii) floor coverings;
(iii) interior painting; and (iv) other redecorating costs. Because we expense recurring
make-ready costs, such as carpet replacements, our expense levels and volatility are greatest in
the third quarter of each year as this is when we experience our greatest amount of turnover. We
capitalize purchases of personal property, such as computers and furniture, only if the item is a
new addition and the item exceeds $2,500. We generally expense replacements of personal property.

In 2005, 2004 and 2003, the amounts capitalized (excluding land costs) related to acquisitions,
development and redevelopment were $425,170,000, $347,091,000 and $296,764,000, respectively. For
Established and Other Stabilized Communities, we recorded non-revenue generating capital
expenditures of $16,753,000 or $471 per apartment home in 2005, $12,347,000 or $354 per apartment
home in 2004 and $11,064,000 or $333 per apartment home in 2003. In addition, revenue generating
capital expenditures, such as water submetering equipment and cable installations, were $817,000,
$637,000 and $529,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The average maintenance costs charged
to expense per apartment home, including carpet and appliance replacements, related to these
communities was $1,546 in 2005, $1,348 in 2004 and $1,262 in 2003. Historically, we have
experienced a gradual increase in capitalized costs and expensed maintenance costs per apartment
home as the average age of our communities has increased, and expensed maintenance costs have
fluctuated with turnover. Although we expect these trends to continue in the future, capitalized
costs increased in 2005 over prior year growth levels as we embarked on a number of community
upgrades and improvements. We expect capitalized costs in 2006 to be at or slightly above 2005
levels as we continue with these community upgrades and improvements.

Asset Impairment Evaluation

If there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates an impairment in the value of a
community, our policy is to assess the impairment by making a comparison of the current and
projected operating cash flow of the community over its remaining useful life, on an undiscounted
basis, to the carrying amount of the community. If the carrying amount is in excess of the
estimated projected operating cash flow of the community, we would recognize an impairment loss
equivalent to an amount required to adjust the carrying amount to its estimated fair market value.
Real estate assets held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount or the fair value
less the cost to sell.


We account for our investments in unconsolidated entities that were created prior to and have not
been modified since June 29, 2005, and are not variable interest entities in accordance with
Statement of Position 78-9, “Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures” and Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 18, “The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock.”
Any investments in entities that were created or modified subsequent to June 29, 2005, and are not
variable interest entities are accounted for in accordance with EITF
Issue No. 04-5, “Determining
Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or
Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights.” If there is an event or change in
circumstance that indicates a loss in the value of an investment, we record the loss and reduce the
value of the investment to its fair value. A loss in value would be indicated if we could not
recover the carrying value of the investment or if the investee could not sustain an earnings
capacity that would justify the carrying amount of the investment.

REIT Status

We are a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated, for federal income tax purposes, as a
REIT. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for
the year ended December 31, 1994 and have not revoked such election. A corporate REIT is a legal
entity which holds real estate interests and must meet a number of organizational and operational
requirements, including a requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its adjusted
taxable income to stockholders. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to corporate level
federal income tax on taxable income we distribute currently to our stockholders. If we fail to
qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income taxes at regular
corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to elect to
qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years.


Results of Operations

Our year-over-year operating performance is primarily affected by changes in net operating
income of our current operating apartment communities due to: market conditions; net operating
income derived from acquisitions and development completions; the loss of net operating income
related to disposed communities; and capital market, disposition and financing activity. A
comparison of our operating results for the years 2005, 2004 and 2003 follows (dollars in
thousands):



$ Change

% Change



$ Change

% Change

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

666,376

$

613,240

$

53,136

8.7

%

$

613,240

$

556,582

$

56,658

10.2

%

Management, development and other fees

4,304


3,700

612.6

%



(327

)

(35.1

%)

Total revenue

670,680

613,844

56,836

9.3

%

613,844

557,513

56,331

10.1

%

Expenses:

Direct property operating expenses,
excluding property taxes

155,481

148,705

6,776

4.6

%

148,705

134,182

14,623

10.8

%

Property taxes

65,487

59,458

6,029

10.1

%

59,458

53,257

6,201

11.6

%

Total community operating expenses

220,968

208,163

12,805

6.2

%

208,163

187,439

20,724

11.1

%

Corporate-level property management
and other indirect operating expenses

31,243

27,956

3,287

11.8

%

27,956

27,123


3.1

%

Investments and investment management

4,834

4,690


3.1

%

4,690

2,948

1,742

59.1

%

Interest expense, net

127,099

131,103

(4,004

)

(3.1

%)

131,103

130,178


0.7

%

Depreciation expense

158,822

151,991

6,831

4.5

%

151,991

138,725

13,266

9.6

%

General and administrative expense

25,761

18,074

7,687

42.5

%

18,074

14,830

3,244

21.9

%

Total other expenses

347,759

333,814

13,945

4.2

%

333,814

313,804

20,010

6.4

%

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

7,198

1,100

6,098

554.4

%

1,100

25,535

(24,435

)

n/a

Venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

(1,178

)

1,178

(100.0

%)

(1,178

)

(1,688

)


(30.2

%)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

(1,481

)

(150

)

(1,331

)

887.3

%

(150

)

(950

)


(84.2

%)

Income from continuing operations before
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

107,670

71,639

36,031

50.3

%

71,639

79,167

(7,528

)

(9.5

%)

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

14,942

21,134

(6,192

)

(29.3

%)

21,134

31,368

(10,234

)

(32.6

%)

Gain on sale of real estate assets

199,766

122,425

77,341

63.2

%

122,425

160,990

(38,565

)

(24.0

%)

Total discontinued operations

214,708

143,559

71,149

49.6

%

143,559

192,358

(48,799

)

(25.4

%)

Income before cumulative effect of change
in accounting principle

322,378

215,198

107,180

49.8

%

215,198

271,525

(56,327

)

(20.7

%)

Cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle

—

4,547

(4,547

)

(100.0

%)

4,547

—

4,547

100.0

%

Net income

322,378

219,745

102,633

46.7

%

219,745

271,525

(51,780

)

(19.1

%)

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

—

—

(8,700

)

(10,744

)

2,044

(19.0

%)

Net income available to common stockholders

$

313,678

$

211,045

$

102,633

48.6

%

$

211,045

$

260,781

$

(49,736

)

(19.1

%)

Net income available to common stockholders

increased $102,633,000, or 48.6%, to $313,678,000
in 2005. This increase is primarily attributable to higher gains on sales of assets in 2005,
including the gain related to the sale of a technology investment, as well as increased net
operating income from Established Communities and newly developed communities. Net income
available to common stockholders decreased $49,736,000, or 19.1%, to $211,045,000 in 2004. This
decrease is primarily attributable to lower gains on sales in 2004 as compared to 2003, including
the gain realized from an unconsolidated entity, and increased depreciation expense, partially
offset by increased net operating income from newly developed and acquired communities.

Net operating income (“NOI”)

is considered by management to be an important and appropriate
supplemental performance measure to net income because it helps both investors and management to
understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any
corporate-level or financing-related costs. NOI reflects the operating performance of a community
and allows for an easy comparison of the operating performance of individual assets or groups of
assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different financing and
overhead structures, with varying marginal impacts to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is
considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of
a real estate asset or group of assets. We define NOI as total property revenue less direct
property operating expenses, including property taxes, and NOI excludes:

•

corporate-level income (including management, development and other fees);

•

corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses;

•

investments and investment management costs;


•

interest expense, net;

•

general and administrative expense;

•

equity in income of unconsolidated entities;

•

minority interest in consolidated partnerships;

•

venture partner interest in profit-sharing;

•

depreciation expense;

•

gain on sale of real estate assets;

•

cumulative effect of change in accounting principle; and

•

income from discontinued operations.

NOI does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP.
Therefore, NOI should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our
performance. NOI should also not be considered an alternative to net cash flow from operating
activities, as determined by GAAP, as a measure of liquidity, nor is NOI necessarily indicative of
cash available to fund cash needs. A calculation of NOI for the years ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003, along with a reconciliation to net income for each year, is as follows (dollars in
thousands):

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Net income

$

322,378

$

219,745

$

271,525

Corporate-level property management
and other indirect operating expenses

31,243

27,956

27,123

Corporate-level other income

(4,568

)

(1,344

)

(1,520

)

Investments and investment management

4,834

4,690

2,948

Interest expense, net

127,099

131,103

130,178

General and administrative expense

25,761

18,074

14,830

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

(7,198

)

(1,100

)

(25,535

)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

1,481



Venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

1,178

1,688

Depreciation expense

158,822

151,991

138,725

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

(4,547

)

—

Gain on sale of real estate assets

(199,766

)

(122,425

)

(160,990

)

Income from discontinued operations

(14,942

)

(21,134

)

(31,368

)

Net operating income

$

445,144

$

404,337

$

368,554

The NOI increases of $40,807,000 and $35,783,000 in 2005 and 2004, respectively, as compared
to the prior years, consist of changes in the following categories (dollars in thousands):



Increase

Increase (Decrease) (1)

Established Communities

$

13,052

$

(3,363

)

Other Stabilized Communities

3,786

16,010

Development and Redevelopment Communities

23,969

23,136

Total

$

40,807

$

35,783

(1)

For purposes of this table, amounts have been restated from amounts previously reported for
changes in discontinued operations as described in Note 7, “Discontinued Operations — Real
Estate Assets Sold or Held for Sale,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.


The NOI increase in Established Communities in 2005 was largely due to the improved apartment
market fundamentals. We maintained average economic occupancy of at least 95% in all regions
during the year ended December 31, 2005 and we experienced the first year-over-year increase in
rental rates in three years. We reached a transition point in the
components of rental revenue growth,
shifting from occupancy gains to increases in rental rates. We will continue
to seek increases in rental rates by increasing market rents and/or reducing concessions, and we
expect revenue growth from our Established Communities of 5.0% to 6.0% in 2006 as compared to 2005.
In addition, although we will continue to aggressively manage operating expenses, there is upward
pressure on operating expenses from increasing utility, labor and property tax expenses. We expect
operating expenses at our Established Communities to increase by 3.0% to 4.0% in 2006 as compared
to 2005. Overall, we anticipate growth in NOI from our Established Communities of 6.0% to 7.0% in
2006 as compared to 2005.

The Company has given projected NOI growth in 2006 only for Established Communities and not on a
company-wide basis. The Company believes that NOI growth of the Established Communities assists
investors in understanding management’s estimate of the likely contribution to operations from
Established Communities. However, the Company has not provided a projection of NOI growth on a
company-wide basis due to the difficulty in projecting the timing of new development starts,
dispositions and acquisitions, as well as the complexities involved in projecting the allocation of
corporate-level property management overhead, general and administrative costs and interest expense
to communities not yet developed, disposed or acquired. NOI growth expected from Established
Communities is not a projection of the Company’s projected consolidated financial performance or
projected cash flow.

Rental and other income

increased in 2005 due to increased rental rates and occupancy for our
Established Communities, coupled with additional rental income generated from newly developed
communities. Rental and other income increased in 2004 due to rental income generated from newly
developed and acquired communities, as well as increased occupancy for our Established Communities,
partially offset by declines in effective rental rates for our Established Communities. We expect
apartment fundamentals to continue to strengthen in 2006.

Overall Portfolio — The weighted average number of occupied apartment homes increased to
36,520 apartment homes for 2005 as compared to 34,540 apartment homes for 2004 and 30,774
apartment homes for 2003. This change is primarily the result of an increase in the overall
occupancy rate and increased homes available from newly developed and acquired communities,
partially offset by communities sold in 2005 and 2004. The weighted average monthly revenue
per occupied apartment home increased to $1,516 in 2005 as compared to $1,477 in 2004 and
$1,505 in 2003.

Established Communities — Rental revenue increased $16,523,000, or 3.6%, in 2005 and
decreased $1,496,000, or 0.3%, in 2004. The increase in 2005 is due to both increased
rental rates and increased economic occupancy as compared to 2004. The decrease in 2004 is
due to declining rental rates, partially offset by increased economic occupancy as compared
to 2003. For 2005, the weighted average monthly revenue per occupied apartment home
increased 2.7% to $1,503 compared to $1,464 in 2004, primarily due to increased market rents
and decreased concessions. The average economic occupancy increased from 95.2% in 2004 to
96.1% in 2005. Economic occupancy takes into account the fact that apartment homes of
different sizes and locations within a community have different economic impacts on a
community’s gross revenue. Economic occupancy is defined as gross potential revenue less
vacancy loss, as a percentage of gross potential revenue. Gross potential revenue is
determined by valuing occupied homes at leased rates and vacant homes at market rents. We
expect rental revenue from Established Communities to increase 5.0% to 6.0% in 2006 as
compared to 2005.

We experienced increases in Established Communities’ rental revenue in all six of our
regions in 2005 as compared to 2004. The largest increases in rental revenue were in
Southern California, the Pacific Northwest and the Northeast, with increases of 5.7%, 4.3%
and 3.7%, respectively, between years. The Northeast and Northern California
regions comprise the majority of our Established Community revenue, and therefore are discussed
in more detail below.


The Northeast region represented approximately 35.5% of Established Community rental
revenue during 2005. Average rental rates
increased 2.2% to $1,892 in 2005 and
economic occupancy increased 1.5% during 2005. We expect job growth to improve in the
Northeast in 2006, although at a more moderate rate than our other markets. We
expect moderate rental rate growth in the Northeast during 2006, with Northern New Jersey leading the region in revenue growth.
 We expect Boston, Massachusetts to lag the region in revenue growth,
as economic recovery is not occurring as quickly as in other areas of the region.

Northern
California, which represented approximately 31.0% in Established Community rental
revenue during 2005, experienced an increase in rental revenue of 2.8% in 2005 as compared
to 2004. Average rental rates increased by 2.1% to $1,448 in 2005, and economic occupancy
increased 0.7% to 96.2% in 2005. Although apartment fundamentals have been weak in certain
areas of Northern California, particularly in San Jose, California, 2005 was a transition
point for the region. We expect Northern California to see continued improvement in apartment fundamentals, driven by accelerating job growth and reduced product in the rental
market due to condominium conversion activity. We expect the improving fundamentals to translate into accelerated revenue growth.

In accordance with GAAP, cash concessions are amortized as an offset to rental revenue over the
approximate lease term, which is generally one year. As a supplemental measure, we also present
rental revenue with concessions stated on a cash basis to help investors evaluate the impact of
both current and historical concessions on GAAP based rental revenue and to more readily enable
comparisons to revenue as reported by other companies. Rental revenue with concessions stated on a
cash basis also allows investors to understand historical trends in cash concessions, as well as
current rental market conditions.

The following table reconciles total rental revenue in conformity with GAAP to total rental revenue
adjusted to state concessions on a cash basis for our Established Communities for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in thousands). Information for the year ended December 31,
2003 is not presented, as Established Community classification is not applicable prior to January
1, 2004. See Note 9, “Segment Reporting,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

Rental revenue (GAAP basis)

$

472,367

$

455,844

Concessions amortized

17,102

19,127

Concessions granted

(14,835

)

(18,891

)

Rental revenue adjusted to state
concessions on a cash basis

$

474,634

$

456,080

Year-over-year % change — GAAP revenue

3.6

%

n/a

Year-over-year % change — cash concession based revenue

4.1

%

n/a

Management, development and other fees

increased in 2005 as compared to 2004 due to increased
asset management, property management and redevelopment fees earned from the Fund, which was formed
in March 2005. In addition, construction and development fees earned from one of our
unconsolidated entities in 2005 contributed to increased fee income. We expect fee income to
increase in 2006 as compared to 2005 due to a full year of operations of, and an increased number
of assets owned by, the Fund.


Direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes

increased in both 2005 and 2004,
primarily due to the addition of recently developed and acquired apartment homes.

For Established Communities, direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes,
increased $965,000, or 0.9%, to $104,346,000 in 2005 due primarily to increases in payroll
and utility costs, partially offset by decreases in marketing and bad debt expenses. During
2004, operating expenses increased $2,131,000, or 2.2%, due primarily to increased payroll
costs, as well as increased make-ready costs associated with increasing occupancy. We
expect operating expenses for Established Communities to increase by 3.0% to 4.0% in 2006 as
compared to 2005, primarily as a result of continued higher utility expenses and payroll
costs. Operating expense growth in 2006 as compared to 2005 will be tempered due to
$880,000 of expenses incurred in 2005 for land lease payments that will not be incurred in
2006 due to the exercise of a purchase option.

Property taxes

increased in both 2005 and 2004 due to overall higher assessments and the
addition of newly developed and redeveloped apartment homes, and are
impacted by the size and timing of
successful tax appeals in both years.

For Established Communities, property taxes increased in 2005 and 2004 by $1,530,000 and
$333,000, respectively, due to overall higher assessments throughout
all regions, and are impacted by
the size and timing of successful tax appeals in both years. We expect property taxes to
continue to increase in 2006 as compared to 2005 as local jurisdictions are expected to
continue to seek additional revenue sources to offset budget deficits. However, property
taxes may fluctuate due to the timing and size of successful tax appeals. We evaluate
property tax increases internally, as well as engage third-party consultants, and appeal
increases when appropriate.

Corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses

increased in 2005 as
compared to 2004 due to increased compensation costs, as well as increased costs relating to
corporate initiatives, including investments in technology and training. We expect corporate-level
property management and other indirect operating expenses to increase in 2006 as compared to 2005
as compensation costs continue to increase.

Investments and investment management

reflects the costs
incurred related to investment
acquisitions, investment management and abandoned pursuit costs, which include the abandonment or
impairment of development pursuits, acquisition pursuits, disposition pursuits and technology
investments. Investments and investment management increased in 2005 as compared to 2004 due
primarily to increased costs incurred in forming and managing the Fund, partially offset by a
decrease in abandoned pursuit costs. Investments and investment management increased in 2004 as
compared to 2003 due to the costs incurred in preparing for and forming the Fund, increased
compensation costs and increased abandoned pursuit costs. We expect investments and investment management costs to increase in 2006 as compared to 2005 as Fund activity increases.
 Abandoned pursuit costs were $816,000,
$1,726,000 and $1,180,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Abandoned pursuit costs can be
volatile, and the costs incurred in any given period may be widely different in future years.

Interest expense, net

decreased in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to the repayment of
unsecured debt and a partial reissuance at lower interest rates, as well as higher levels of
capitalized interest, in connection with our increased development activity, partially offset by
overall higher short-term interest rates and higher average outstanding balances on our unsecured
credit facility. Interest expense, net increased in 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily due to the
interest income related to a participating mortgage note included in
interest expense, net in 2003 (as
described more fully below), partially offset by the repayment of unsecured debt and
reissuance at lower interest rates, overall lower interest rates and lower average outstanding
balances on our unsecured credit facility. We expect interest
expense, net to decrease during
2006 primarily due to higher levels of capitalized interest resulting from increased development
activity, as well as lower average outstanding balances on our unsecured credit facility.


Depreciation expense

increased in both 2005 and 2004 primarily due to the completion of development
and redevelopment activities.

General and administrative expense

(“G&A”) increased in 2005 as compared to 2004 as a result of:
(i) separation costs of approximately $2,100,000 due to the departure of a senior executive; (ii)
the accrual of costs related to various litigation matters of approximately $1,500,000; (iii)
increased board of director fees due to the acceleration of equity awards with the resignation of a director due
to disability; and (iv) higher compensation costs. G&A increased in 2004 as compared
to 2003 as a result of higher compensation costs, increased litigation and settlement costs
associated with certain community and corporate matters, and additional corporate governance costs,
including costs relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We expect expensed
overhead costs, including G&A, corporate - level property management and investments and investment
management, to increase from 0.0% to 5.0% in 2006 as compared to 2005.

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

increased in 2005 primarily due to the gain recognized
in the amount of $6,252,000 related to the sale of our investment in Rent.com to eBay. Equity in
income of unconsolidated entities decreased in 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily due to our 50%
share of the gain received on a community sold in 2003 which was accounted for under the equity
method.

Venture partner interest in profit-sharing

in 2004 and 2003 represented the income allocated to our
venture partner in a profit-sharing arrangement as discussed in Note 6, “Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective December 2004, we no
longer account for our interest in this venture as a profit-sharing arrangement, and therefore
during 2005, no income or loss from venture partner interest in profit-sharing was recognized.

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

increased in 2005 and decreased in 2004 due to the
consolidation of an entity under FASB Interpretation No. 46 (“FIN 46”), “Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51,” as revised in December 2003. Effective
January 1, 2004, we consolidated an entity from which we held a participating mortgage note due to
the implementation of FIN 46 as discussed in Note 1, “Organization and Significant Accounting
Policies,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We did not hold an equity interest in this
entity, and therefore 100% of the entity’s net loss was recognized as minority interest in
consolidated partnerships during the year ended December 31, 2004. In October 2004, we received
payment in full of the outstanding mortgage note due from this entity. Upon repayment of the
mortgage note, our economic interest in this entity ended, and therefore this entity was no longer
considered a variable interest entity under FIN 46 and we discontinued consolidation.

Income from discontinued operations

represents the net income generated by communities sold during
the period from January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005 or considered held for sale as of
December 31, 2005. See Note 7, “Discontinued Operations — Real Estate Assets Sold or Held for
Sale” of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The decreases in 2005 and 2004
are due to the sale of seven communities and one office building in 2005 and five communities in 2004, eliminating the income generated from these assets upon disposition.

Gain on
sale of real estate assets

increased in 2005 and decreased in 2004 due to the volume and size of
dispositions in each year. The amount of gains realized depends on many factors, including the
number of communities sold, the size and carrying value of those communities and local market
conditions. We expect to continue to sell communities based on overall portfolio
allocation needs as well as to respond to market opportunities.

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

in 2004 is a result of the implementation of
FIN 46, discussed above, and represents the difference between the net assets consolidated under
FIN 46 and the previously recorded net assets.

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

decreased during 2004 primarily as a result of several
preferred stock redemptions during 2003.


Funds from
Operations Attributable to Common Stockholders (“FFO”)

FFO is considered by management to be an appropriate supplemental measure of our operating and financial performance because, by
excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of previously depreciated property and excluding
real estate depreciation, which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition
based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates,
FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a real estate company between periods or as
compared to different companies. We believe that in order to understand our operating results, FFO
should be examined with net income as presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. For a
more detailed discussion and presentation of FFO, see “Selected Financial Data,” included in Item 6
of this report.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Factors affecting our liquidity and capital resources are our cash flows from operations,
financing activities and investing activities. Operating cash flow has historically been
determined by: (i) the number of apartment homes currently owned, (ii) rental rates, (iii)
occupancy levels and (iv) operating expenses with respect to apartment homes. The timing, source
and amount of cash flow provided by financing activities and used in investing activities are
sensitive to the capital markets environment, particularly to changes in interest rates. The
timing and type of capital markets activity in which we engage, as well as our plans for
development, redevelopment, acquisition and disposition activity, are affected by changes in the
capital markets environment, such as changes in interest rates or the availability of
cost-effective capital.

We regularly review our liquidity needs, the adequacy of cash flow from operations, and other
expected liquidity sources to meet these needs. We believe our principal short-term liquidity
needs are to fund:

•

normal recurring operating expenses;

•

debt service and maturity payments;

•

preferred stock dividends and DownREIT partnership unit distributions;

•

the minimum dividend payments required to maintain our REIT qualification
under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;

•

development and redevelopment activity in which we are currently engaged; and

•

capital calls for the Fund as required.

We anticipate that we can fully satisfy these needs from a combination of cash flow provided by
operating activities, proceeds from asset dispositions and borrowing capacity under our variable
rate unsecured credit facility.

Cash and cash equivalents totaled $6,106,000
at December 31, 2005, an increase of $4,585,000 from
$1,521,000 at December 31, 2004. The following discussion relates to changes in cash due to
operating, investing and financing activities, which are presented in our Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows included elsewhere in this report.

Operating Activities — Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $306,639,000 in 2005
from $275,617,000 in 2004, primarily due to additional NOI from our Established Community
operations, as well as NOI from recently developed communities, partially offset by the loss of NOI
from the 12 communities sold in 2005 and 2004, as discussed earlier in this report.

Investing Activities — Net cash used in investing activities of $19,761,000 in 2005 related to
investments in assets through development, redevelopment and acquisition of apartment communities,
including the acquisition of a partner interest in a real estate joint venture, substantially all of which is offset by
proceeds from asset dispositions, including the proceeds from the sale of a technology investment.
During 2005, we invested $459,376,000 in the purchase and development of real estate and
capital expenditures:

•

we began the development of 12 new communities. These communities, if developed as
expected, will contain a total of 3,365 apartment homes, and the total capitalized cost,
including land acquisition costs, is projected to be approximately $882,700,000. We
completed the development;


of seven communities containing an aggregate of 1,971 apartment homes for a total capitalized
cost, including land acquisition cost, of $408,200,000;

•

we completed the redevelopment of three communities containing 1,094 apartment homes for
a total capitalized cost of $196,700,000, of which $165,700,000 was incurred prior to
redevelopment;

•

we acquired the 75% equity interest of a third-party partner in a joint venture owning
one community for a net purchase price of $57,415,000;

•

we contributed $6,278,000 for a 15.2% equity interest in the Fund, which upon
contribution owned four apartment communities containing a total of 879 apartment homes
with an aggregate gross real estate value of $112,852,000. We also received net proceeds
of $87,948,000 as reimbursement for acquiring and warehousing these communities. In
December 2005, we contributed an additional $5,303,000 to the Fund, bringing our total equity
 investment in the Fund to approximately $11,600,000;

•

we acquired 13 parcels of land in connection with Development Rights, for an
aggregate purchase price of $115,849,000; and

•

we had capital expenditures relating to current communities’ real estate assets of
$17,570,000 and non-real estate capital expenditures of $1,520,000.

Financing Activities — Net cash used in financing activities totaled $282,293,000 in 2005,
consisting primarily of dividends paid, certain unsecured note repayments and mortgage note
repayments, partially offset by the issuance of common stock for option exercises, the issuance of
unsecured notes and mortgage notes payable including draws on construction loans and an increase in
borrowings under our unsecured credit facility. See Note 3, “Notes Payable, Unsecured Notes and
Credit Facility,” and Note 4, “Stockholders’ Equity,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements, for
additional information.

Variable Rate Unsecured Credit Facility

We have a $500,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit
facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank and Wachovia Bank, N.A. serving as banks and syndication agents for a syndicate of
commercial banks and Bank of America, serving as bank and
administrative agent. Under the terms of the credit facility, we may elect to increase the facility by
up to an additional $150,000,000, provided that one or more banks (from the syndicate or otherwise)
voluntarily agree to provide the additional commitment. No member of the syndicate of banks can prohibit such increase;
such an increase in the facility will only be effective to the extent banks (from the syndicate or
otherwise) choose to commit to lend additional funds. We pay participating banks, in the
aggregate, an annual facility fee of approximately $750,000. The
unsecured credit facility bears interest at varying levels based on the London Interbank Offered
Rate (“LIBOR”), rating levels achieved on our unsecured notes and on a maturity schedule selected
by us. The current stated pricing is LIBOR plus 0.55% per annum (5.12% on January 31, 2006). The
spread over LIBOR can vary from LIBOR plus 0.50% to LIBOR plus 1.15% based upon the rating of our
long-term unsecured debt. In addition, a competitive bid option is available for borrowings of up
to $250,000,000. This option allows banks that are part of the lender consortium to bid to provide
us loans at a rate that is lower than the stated pricing provided by the unsecured credit facility.
The competitive bid option may result in lower pricing if market conditions allow. We had no
outstanding balance under this competitive bid option at January 31, 2006. We are subject to (i)
certain customary covenants under the unsecured credit facility, including, but not limited to,
maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios, a minimum fixed charges coverage ratio and minimum
unencumbered assets and equity levels, and (ii) prohibitions on paying dividends in amounts that
exceed 95% of our FFO, except as may be required to maintain our REIT status. The credit facility
matures in May 2008, assuming our exercise of a one-year renewal option. At January 31, 2006,
$16,000,000 was outstanding, $39,504,000 was used to provide letters of credit and $444,496,000 was
available for borrowing under the unsecured credit facility.


Future Financing and Capital Needs — Debt Maturities

One of our principal long-term liquidity needs is the repayment of long-term debt at the time that
such debt matures. For unsecured notes, we anticipate that no significant portion of the principal
of these notes will be repaid prior to maturity. If we do not have funds on hand sufficient to
repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, it will be necessary for us to refinance the debt. This
refinancing may be accomplished by uncollateralized private or public debt offerings, additional
debt financing that is collateralized by mortgages on individual communities or groups of
communities, draws on our unsecured credit facility or by additional equity offerings. Although we
believe we will have the capacity to meet our long-term liquidity needs, we cannot assure you that
additional debt financing or debt or equity offerings will be available or, if available, that they
will be on terms we consider satisfactory.

The following debt activity occurred during the year ended December 31, 2005:

•

We repaid $150,000,000 in previously issued unsecured notes in January 2005, along with
any unpaid interest, pursuant to their scheduled maturity. No prepayment penalty was
incurred;

•

We issued $100,000,000 in unsecured notes in March 2005 under our existing shelf
registration statement at an annual effective interest rate of 4.999%. Interest on these
notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15, and they mature in March 2013;

•

In connection with the admission of outside investors into the Fund, we deconsolidated
the assets and liabilities of four communities owned by the Fund, including $24,869,000 in
fixed rate mortgage debt secured by two of the communities;

•

We made a payment in the amount of $36,142,000 to the third-party lender of a joint
venture entity that was unconsolidated at December 31, 2004 but was consolidated in March
2005 upon acquisition of the 75% equity interest of the third-party partner; and

•

We assumed $4,566,000 in fixed rate debt in connection with the acquisition of a parcel
of improved land.

We currently have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The shelf registration statement originally
provided for the issuance of $750,000,000 of debt and
equity in one or more public offerings, however, only $370,984,000
remains available for issuance. We
expect to increase our debt and equity
capacity in early 2006. However, we cannot assure you that market conditions will permit us to
issue debt or equity securities on cost-effective terms or that the registration statement will
remain available and effective at all times.


The table below details debt maturities for the next five years, excluding our unsecured credit
facility, for debt outstanding at December 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands).

All-In

Principal

interest

maturity

Balance outstanding

Scheduled maturities

Community

rate (1)

date

12-31-04

12-31-05






Thereafter

Tax-exempt bonds

Fixed rate

CountryBrook

6.30

%

Mar-2012

$

17,145

$

16,586

$


$


$


$


$


$

13,195

Avalon at Symphony Glen

4.90

%

Jul-2024

9,780

9,780

—

—

—

—

—

9,780

Avalon View

7.55

%

Aug-2024

16,920

16,465






13,677

Avalon at Lexington

6.55

%

Feb-2025

13,151

12,834






10,720

Avalon at Nob Hill

5.80

%

Jun-2025

18,847

18,494

(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

18,494

Avalon Campbell

6.48

%

Jun-2025

34,395

33,614

(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

33,614

Avalon Pacifica

6.48

%

Jun-2025

15,602

15,247

(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

15,247

Avalon Knoll

6.95

%

Jun-2026

12,502

12,239






10,613

Avalon Landing

6.85

%

Jun-2026

6,177

6,044






5,231

Avalon Fields

7.55

%

May-2027

10,912

10,705






9,419

Avalon West

7.73

%

Dec-2036

8,327

8,259






7,792

Avalon Oaks

7.45

%

Jul-2041

17,426

17,324






16,623

Avalon Oaks West

7.48

%

Apr-2043

17,239

17,145






16,508

198,423

194,736

2,459

2,566

2,742

2,929

3,127

180,913

Variable rate

(3)

The Promenade

4.68

%

Oct-2010

32,663

32,100





29,388

—

Waterford

3.40

%

Jul-2014

33,100

33,100

(4

)

—

—

—

—

—

33,100

Avalon at Mountain View

3.40

%

Feb-2017

18,300

18,300

(4

)

—

—

—

—

—

18,300

Avalon at Foxchase I

3.40

%

Nov-2017

16,800

16,800

(4

)

—

—

—

—

—

16,800

Avalon at Foxchase II

3.40

%

Nov-2017

9,600

9,600

(4

)

—

—

—

—

—

9,600

Avalon at Mission Viejo

4.02

%

Jun-2025

7,635

7,635

(4

)

—

—

—

—

—

7,635

Avalon at Nob Hill

3.61

%

Jun-2025

1,953

2,306

(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

2,306

Avalon Campbell

3.61

%

Jun-2025

4,405

5,186

(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

5,186

Avalon Pacifica

3.61

%

Jun-2025

1,998

2,353

(2

)

—

—

—

—

—

2,353

Avalon at Fairway Hills I

3.96

%

Jun-2026

11,500

11,500

—

—

—

—

—

11,500

137,954

138,880





29,388

106,780

Conventional loans (5)

Fixed rate

$100 million unsecured
notes

6.75

%

Jan-2005

100,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

$50 million unsecured notes

6.50

%

Jan-2005

50,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

$150 million unsecured
notes

6.93

%

Jul-2006

150,000

150,000

150,000

—

—

—

—

—

$150 million unsecured
notes

5.18

%

Aug-2007

150,000

150,000

—

150,000

—

—

—

—

$110 million unsecured
notes

7.13

%

Dec-2007

110,000

110,000

—

110,000

—

—

—

—

$50 million unsecured notes

6.63

%

Jan-2008

50,000

50,000

—

—

50,000

—

—

—

$150 million unsecured
notes

8.37

%

Jul-2008

150,000

150,000

—

—

150,000

—

—

—

$150 million unsecured
notes

7.63

%

Aug-2009

150,000

150,000

—

—

—

150,000

—

—

$200 million unsecured
notes

7.67

%

Dec-2010

200,000

200,000

—

—

—

—

200,000

—

$300 million unsecured
notes

6.79

%

Sep-2011

300,000

300,000

—

—

—

—

—

300,000

$50 million unsecured notes

6.31

%

Sep-2011

50,000

50,000

—

—

—

—

—

50,000

$250 million unsecured
notes

6.26

%

Nov-2012

250,000

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

250,000

$100 million unsecured
notes

5.11

%

Mar-2013

—

100,000

—

—

—

—

—

100,000

$150 million unsecured
notes

5.52

%

Apr-2014

150,000

150,000

—

—

—

—

—

150,000

Wheaton Development Right

6.99

%

Oct-2008

4,660

4,589



4,432

—

—

—

Eisenhower
Ave. Development Right

8.08

%

Apr-2009

—

4,504




4,166

—

—

Twinbrook Development Right

7.25

%

Oct-2011

8,545

8,379






7,407

Avalon Redondo Beach (6)

4.84

%

Oct-2011

16,765

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Briarcliffe Lakeside (6)

6.90

%

Feb-2028

8,104

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Tysons West
Development Right

5.55

%

Jul-2028

6,819

6,681






5,862

Avalon Orchards

7.65

%

Jul-2033

20,353

20,136






18,649

1,925,246

1,854,289

150,763

260,801

205,199

154,863

200,745

881,918

Variable rate

(3)

Avalon Del Rey

5.89

%

Sep-2007

6,278

32,547

—

32,547

—

—

—

—

Avalon Ledges

5.68

%

May-2009

19,674

19,290

(4

)




17,136

—

—

Avalon at Flanders Hill

5.68

%

May-2009

22,429

21,935

(4

)




19,535

—

—

Avalon at Newton Highlands

5.62

%

May-2009

39,902

38,905

(4

)

1,472

1,329

1,397

34,707

—

—

88,283

112,677

3,161

35,269

2,869

71,378

—

—

Total indebtedness — excluding unsecured credit facility

$

2,349,906

$

2,300,582

$

156,987

$

299,288

$

211,511

$

229,925

$

233,260

$

1,169,611


Future Financing and Capital Needs — Portfolio and Other Activity

As of December 31, 2005, we had 15 new communities under construction, for which a total estimated
cost of $598,412,000 remained to be invested. In addition, we had two communities under
reconstruction, for which a total estimated cost of $1,656,000 remained to be invested.
Substantially all of the capital expenditures necessary to complete the communities currently under
construction and reconstruction, as well as development costs related to pursuing Development
Rights, will be funded from:

•

the remaining capacity under our current $500,000,000 unsecured credit facility;

•

the net proceeds from sales of existing communities;

•

retained operating cash;

•

the issuance of debt or equity securities; and/or

•

private equity funding.

Before planned reconstruction activity, including reconstruction activity related to the Fund as
discussed below, or the construction of a Development Right begins, we intend to arrange adequate
financing to complete these undertakings, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to
obtain such financing. In the event that financing cannot be obtained, we may have to abandon
Development Rights, write-off associated pre-development costs that were capitalized and/or forego
reconstruction activity. In such instances, we will not realize the increased revenues and
earnings that we expected from such Development Rights or reconstruction activity and significant
losses could be incurred.

We have
 invested in the Fund, a private, discretionary investment vehicle that will acquire and
operate apartment communities in our markets. The Fund will serve, until March 16, 2008 or until
80% of its committed capital is invested, as the exclusive vehicle through which we will acquire
apartment communities, subject to certain exceptions. These exceptions include significant
individual asset and portfolio acquisitions, properties acquired in tax-deferred transactions and
acquisitions that are inadvisable or inappropriate for the Fund, if any. The Fund will not
restrict our development activities, and will terminate after a term of eight years, subject to two
one-year extensions. The Fund has nine institutional investors, including us, with combined
capital commitments of $330,000,000. A significant portion of the investments made in the Fund by
its investors are being made through AvalonBay Value Added Fund, Inc., a Maryland corporation that
will qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the “Fund REIT”). A wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company is the general partner of the Fund and has committed $50,000,000 to the
Fund and the Fund REIT (of which approximately $11,600,000 has been invested as of January 31,
2006) representing a 15.2% combined general partner and limited
partner equity interest. Under the Fund documents, the Fund has the ability to employ
leverage through debt financings up to 65% on a portfolio
basis, which, if achieved, would enable the Fund to invest up to $940,000,000.

From time to time we use joint ventures to hold or develop individual real estate assets. We
generally employ joint ventures primarily to mitigate asset concentration or market risk and
secondarily as a source of liquidity. We may also use joint ventures related to mixed-use land
development opportunities where our partners bring development and operational expertise to the
venture. Each joint venture or partnership agreement has been and will continue to be individually
negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be
limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture or partnership agreement.
However, we can not assure you that we will achieve our objectives through joint ventures.

In evaluating our allocation of capital within our markets, we sell assets that do not meet our
long-term investment criteria or when capital and real estate markets allow us to realize a portion
of the value created over the past business cycle and redeploy the proceeds from those sales to
develop and redevelop communities. In response to real estate and capital markets conditions,
including strong institutional demand for real estate assets in our markets and demand from
condominium converters, we sold seven communities with net proceeds in the aggregate of
$344,185,000 in 2005, and expect to sell communities at an aggregate sales price of $225,000,000 to
$300,000,000 in 2006.  We cannot assure you that assets can continue to be sold on terms
that we consider satisfactory or that market conditions will continue


to make the sale of assets an appealing strategy. Because the proceeds from the sale of
communities may not be immediately redeployed into revenue generating assets, the immediate effect
of a sale of a community for a gain is to increase net income, but reduce future total revenues,
total expenses, NOI and FFO. As of January 31, 2006, we have one community classified as held for
sale under GAAP. We are actively pursuing the disposition of this community and expect to close on
this disposition within the next twelve months. However, we cannot assure you that this community
will be sold as planned.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

We own interests in unconsolidated real estate entities, with
ownership interests up to 50%.
Four of these unconsolidated real estate entities, Avalon Terrace, LLC, CVP I, LLC, Mission Bay
Venture Partners, LLC and the Fund, have debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005 as follows.
 Additional discussion of these entities can be found in Note 6, “Investments in Unconsolidated Entities,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements located elsewhere in this report.

•

Avalon Terrace, LLC has $37,200,000 of fixed rate debt which matures in November 2010
and is payable by the unconsolidated real estate entity with operating cash flow from the
underlying real estate. We have not guaranteed the debt on Avalon Terrace, LLC, nor do we
have any obligation to fund this debt should the unconsolidated real estate entity be
unable to do so.

•

CVP I, LLC has outstanding bonds in the amount of $117,000,000 which mature in February
2009, assuming exercise of two one-year renewal options, and are payable by the
unconsolidated real estate entity. In connection with the general contractor services that
we provided to CVP I, LLC, the entity that owns and developed Avalon Chrystie Place I, we
have provided a construction completion guarantee to the lender in order to fulfill their
standard financing requirements related to the bond financing. Our obligations under this
guarantee will terminate once all of the lender’s standard completion requirements have
been satisfied. We currently expect this to occur in early 2006.

•

Mission Bay Venture Partners, LLC has a construction loan in the amount of $94,400,000
(of which $28,354,000 is outstanding as of December 31, 2005), which matures in September
2010, assuming exercise of two one-year renewal options, and is payable by the
unconsolidated real estate entity. In connection with the general contractor services that
we provide to Mission Bay Venture Partners, LLC, the entity that owns and is developing
Avalon Mission Bay North II, we have provided a construction completion guarantee to the
lender in order to fulfill their standard financing requirements related to the
construction financing. Our obligations under this guarantee will terminate following
construction completion once all of the lender’s standard completion requirements have been
satisfied. We currently expect this to occur in 2007.

•

The Fund has six mortgage loans with amounts outstanding of $16,765,000, $16,575,000,
$31,500,000, $23,806,000, $7,960,000 and $16,500,000, which mature in October 2011, April
2012, July 2012, August 2013, February 2028 (but can be prepaid after February 2008 without
penalty) and October 2012, respectively. These mortgage loans are secured by the
underlying real estate. In addition, the Fund has a credit facility with $37,100,000
outstanding as of December 31, 2005, which matures in January 2008. The mortgage loans and
the credit facility are payable by the Fund with operating cash flow from the underlying
real estate, and the credit facility is secured by capital commitments. We have not
guaranteed the debt of the Fund, nor do we have any obligation to fund this debt should the
Fund be unable to do so.

In addition, as part of the formation of the Fund, we have provided to one of
the limited partners
a guarantee. The guarantee provides that, if, upon final liquidation of the Fund, the total amount of all
distributions to that partner during the life of the Fund (whether from operating cash flow or
property sales) does not equal the total capital contributions made by that partner, then we will
pay the partner an amount equal to the shortfall, but in no event more than 10% of the total
capital contributions made by the partner (maximum of approximately $1,700,000 as of December 31, 2005). We have not recorded a liability related to this
guarantee as of December 31, 2005, as the fair value of the real estate assets owned by the Fund is
considered adequate to cover such payment under a liquidation scenario.


There are no other lines
of credit, side agreements, financial guarantees or any other
derivative financial instruments related to or between us and our unconsolidated real estate entities. In evaluating
our capital structure and overall leverage, management takes into consideration our proportionate
share of this unconsolidated debt.

Contractual Obligations

We currently have contractual obligations consisting primarily of long-term debt obligations
and lease obligations for certain land parcels and regional and administrative office space.
Scheduled contractual obligations required for the next five years and thereafter are as follows as
of December 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands):

Payments due by period

Less than 1

More than 5

Total

Year

1-3 Years

3-5 Years

Years

Long-Term Debt Obligations (1)

$

2,367,382

$

223,787

$

510,799

$

463,185

$

1,169,611

Operating Lease Obligations (2)

1,185,093

3,454

6,915

6,044

1,168,680

Total

$

3,552,475

$

227,241

$

517,714

$

469,229

$

2,338,291

(1)

Includes $66,800 outstanding under our variable rate unsecured credit facility as of
December 31, 2005. The table of contractual obligations assumes repayment of this amount in
2006 — See “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Amounts exclude interest payable as of December 31, 2005.

(2)

Includes land leases expiring between July 2029 and March 2142. Amounts do not include any adjustment for purchase options available under the land leases.

Inflation and Deflation

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. In an
inflationary environment, this may allow us to realize increased rents upon renewal of existing
leases or the beginning of new leases. Short-term leases generally minimize our risk from the
adverse effects of inflation, although these leases generally permit residents to leave at the end
of the lease term and therefore expose us to the effect of a decline in market rents. In a
deflationary rent environment, we may be exposed to declining rents more quickly under these
shorter term leases.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by our use
of the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “assume,” “project,” “plan,”
“may,” “shall,” “will” and other similar expressions in this Form 10-K, that predict or indicate
future events and trends and that do not report historical matters. These statements include,
among other things, statements regarding our intent, belief or expectations with respect to:

•

our potential development, redevelopment, acquisition or disposition of communities;

•

the timing and cost of completion of apartment communities under
construction, reconstruction, development or redevelopment;

•

the timing of lease-up, occupancy and stabilization of apartment communities;

•

the pursuit of land on which we are considering future development;

•

the anticipated operating performance of our communities;

•

cost, yield and earnings estimates;

•

our declaration or payment of distributions;

•

our joint venture and discretionary fund activities;

•

our policies regarding investments, indebtedness, acquisitions,
dispositions, financings and other matters;

•

our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code;


•

the real estate markets in Northern and Southern California and markets in
selected states in the Mid-Atlantic, Northeast, Midwest and Pacific Northwest
regions of the United States and in general;

•

the availability of debt and equity financing;

•

interest rates;

•

general economic conditions; and

•

trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations.

We cannot assure the future results or outcome of the matters
 described in these statements;
rather, these statements merely reflect our current expectations of the approximate outcomes of the
matters discussed. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors, which we describe in Item 1a,
“Risk Factors,” elsewhere in this
report, may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the
anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these
forward-looking statements.

In addition, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of
the date of this report. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements, and
therefore they may not represent our estimates and assumptions after the date of this report.

ITEM 7a.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to certain financial market risks, the most predominant being fluctuations in
interest rates. We monitor interest rate fluctuations as an integral part of our overall risk
management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce
the potentially adverse effect on our results of operations. The effect of interest rate
fluctuations historically has been small relative to other factors affecting operating results,
such as rental rates and occupancy. The specific market risks and the potential impact on our
operating results are described below.

Our operating results are affected by changes
in interest rates as a result of borrowings under our
variable rate unsecured credit facility as well as outstanding bonds with variable interest rates.
We had $241,712,000 and $217,881,000 in variable rate debt outstanding (excluding variable rate debt effectively fixed through swap agreements)
 as of December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively. If interest rates on the variable rate debt had been 100 basis points higher
throughout 2005 and 2004, our annual interest costs would have increased by approximately $3,990,000
and $3,682,000 respectively, based on balances outstanding during the applicable years.

We currently use interest rate protection agreements (consisting of interest rate swap and cap
agreements) to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations on certain variable rate
indebtedness. Under swap agreements:

•

we agree to pay to a counterparty the interest that would have been incurred on a
fixed principal amount at a fixed interest rate (generally, the interest rate on a
particular treasury bond on the date the agreement is entered into, plus a fixed
increment); and

•

the counterparty agrees to pay to us the interest that would have been incurred on
the same principal amount at an assumed floating interest rate tied to a particular
market index.

As of December 31, 2005, the effect of swap agreements is to
fix the interest rate on approximately
$67,400,000 of our variable rate, tax-exempt debt. The interest rate protection provided by certain
swap agreements on the consolidated variable rate, tax-exempt debt was not electively entered into
by us but, rather, was a requirement of either the bond issuer or the credit enhancement provider
related to certain of our tax-exempt bond financings. Because the
counterparties providing the swap agreements are major financial institutions which have an A+ or
better credit rating by the Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group and the interest rates fixed by the
swap agreements are significantly higher than current market rates for such agreements, we do not
believe there is exposure at this time to a default by a counterparty provider. Had these swap
agreements not been in place during 2005 and 2004, our annual interest costs would have been


approximately $1,878,000 and $2,769,000 lower, respectively, based
on balances outstanding and
reported interest rates during the applicable years. Additionally, if the variable interest rates on
this debt had been 100 basis points higher throughout 2005 and 2004 and these swap agreements had
not been in place, our annual interest costs would have been approximately $1,200,000 and
$2,073,000 lower, respectively.

In addition, changes in interest rates affect the fair value of our
fixed rate debt, which impacts
the fair value of our aggregate indebtedness. Debt securities and notes payable (excluding our
variable rate unsecured credit facility) with an aggregate carrying value of $2,300,582,000 at
December 31, 2005 had an estimated aggregate fair value of $2,426,250,000 at December 31, 2005. Fixed rate
debt (excluding variable rate debt effectively fixed through swap agreements) represented $1,981,670,000 of the carrying value and $2,107,342,000 of the fair value at December 31,
2005. If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher as of December 31, 2005, the fair value
of this fixed rate debt would have decreased by $88,418,000.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9a.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a)

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

. As required by Rule 13a-15 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the
Company carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the
Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls
and procedures. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or
submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. We continue to
review and document our disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal control
over financial reporting, and may from time to time make changes aimed at enhancing their
effectiveness and to ensure that our systems evolve with our business.

(b)

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

. Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 based on the framework in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that our
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005.

Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included elsewhere herein.

(c)

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

. There was no change in our internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of the period covered
by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9b.

OTHER INFORMATION

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT

Information pertaining to directors and executive officers of the Company and the Company’s Code of
Conduct are incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy
Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of
the year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
May 17, 2006.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information pertaining to executive compensation is incorporated herein by reference to the
Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after the end of the year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 17, 2006.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Information pertaining to security ownership of management and certain beneficial owners of the
Company’s common stock is incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year covered
by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 17, 2006.

The Company maintains the 1994 Stock Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”) and the 1996 Non-Qualified
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”), pursuant to which common stock or other equity awards
may be issued or granted to eligible persons.

The following table gives information about equity awards under the Company’s 1994 Plan and ESPP as
of December 31, 2005:

(a)

(b)

(c)

Number of securities

remaining available for

Number of securities to be

Weighted-average

future issuance under equity

issued upon exercise of

exercise price of

compensation plans

outstanding options,

outstanding options,

(excluding securities

Plan category

warrants and rights

warrants and rights

reflected in column (a))

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security holders

(1)

2,347,908

(2) (3)

$

51.40

(3) (4)

2,066,308

(5)

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

(6)

—

n/a

800,142

Total

2,347,908

$

51.40

(3) (4)

2,866,450

(1) Consists of the 1994 Plan.

(2) Includes 119,860 deferred units granted under the 1994 Plan, which, subject to vesting
requirements, will convert in the future to common stock on a one-for-one basis, but does not
include 241,028 shares of restricted stock that are outstanding and that are already reflected
in the Company’s outstanding shares.

(3) Does not include outstanding options to acquire 26,624 shares, at a weighted-average
exercise price of $37.09 per share, that were assumed, in connection with the 1998 merger of
Avalon Properties, Inc. with and into the Company, under the Avalon Properties, Inc. 1995
Equity Incentive Plan and the Avalon Properties, Inc. 1993 Stock Option and Incentive Plan.


(4) Excludes deferred units granted under the 1994 Plan, which, subject to vesting
requirements, will convert in the future to common stock on a one-for-one basis.

(5) The 1994 Plan incorporates an evergreen formula pursuant to which the aggregate number
of shares reserved for issuance under the 1994 Plan will increase annually. On each January
1, the aggregate number of shares reserved for issuance under the 1994 Plan will increase by a
number of shares equal to a percentage (ranging from 0.48% to 1.00%) of all outstanding shares
of common stock at the end of the year. The exact percentage used is determined based on the
percentage of all awards made under the 1994 Plan during the calendar year that were in the
form of stock options with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of a share of
common stock on the date of the grant. In accordance with this
procedure, on January 1, 2006,
the maximum number of shares remaining available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan was
increased by 696,701 to 2,763,009.

(6) Consists of the ESPP.

The ESPP, which was adopted by the Board of Directors on October 29, 1996, has not been approved by
our shareholders. A further description of the ESPP appears in Note 10, “Stock-Based Compensation
Plans,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information pertaining to certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated herein by
reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within 120 days after the end of the year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 17, 2006.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Information pertaining to the fees paid to and services provided by the Company’s principal
accountant is incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year covered by this
Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 17, 2006.


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

15(a)(1)

Financial Statements

Index to Financial Statements

Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule:

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-1

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-8

15(a)(2)

Financial Statement
Schedule

Schedule III — Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

F-33

15(a)(3)

Exhibits

The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as a
part of this report.


INDEX TO EXHIBITS

3(i).1

—

Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Articles of
Incorporation of the Company, dated as of June 4, 1998.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i).1 to Form 10-Q
of the Company filed August 14, 1998.)

3(i).2

—

Articles of Amendment, dated as of October 2, 1998.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1(ii) to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 6,
1998.)

3(i).3

—

Articles Supplementary, dated as of October 13, 1998,
relating to the 8.70% Series H Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1
to Form 8-A of the Company filed October 14, 1998.)

3(ii).1

—

Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, as adopted by
the Board of Directors on February 13, 2003.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to Form 10-K
of the Company filed March 11, 2003.)

4.1

—

Indenture of Avalon Properties, Inc. (hereinafter
referred to as “Avalon Properties”) dated as of September
18, 1995. (Incorporated by reference to Avalon
Properties’ Registration Statement on Form S-3
(33-95412), filed on August 4, 1995.)

4.2

—

First Supplemental Indenture of Avalon Properties dated as of September 18, 1995.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 26, 2002.)

4.3

—

Second Supplemental Indenture of Avalon Properties dated as of December 16, 1997. (Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.3 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 11, 2003.)

4.4

—

Third Supplemental Indenture of Avalon Properties dated as of January 22, 1998. (Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.4 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 11, 2003.)

4.5

—

Indenture, dated as of January 16, 1998, between the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as
Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 11, 2003.)

4.6

—

First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 20, 1998, between the Company and the Trustee.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 11, 2003.)

4.7

—

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 7, 1998, between the Company and the Trustee. (Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 9, 1998.)

4.8

—

Amended and Restated Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 10, 2000 between the Company and the
Trustee, including forms of Floating Rate Note and Fixed Rate Note. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.4 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 11, 2000.)


4.9

—

Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan of the Company filed September 14, 1999. (Incorporated by
reference to Form S-3 of the Company, File No. 333-87063.)

4.10

—

Amendment to the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan filed on December 17, 1999.
(Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2) of the Securities
Act of 1933 on December 17, 1999.)

4.11

—

Amendment to the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan filed on March 26, 2004.
(Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) of the Securities
Act of 1933 on March 26, 2004.)

10.1

—

Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement, dated August 6, 2003, among AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the
“Company”) and the Agents, including Administrative Procedures, relating to the MTNs. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 5, 2004.

10.2

—

Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P., dated as of March 16,
2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.3+

—

Endorsement Split Dollar Agreements and Amendments thereto with Messrs. Blair, Naughton, Fuller, Sargeant,
Horey and Meyer (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6,
2005.)

10.4+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2003, between the Company and Thomas J. Sargeant. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 3 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-3
(333-103755), filed July 7, 2003.)

10.5+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Thomas J. Sargeant, dated as of March 31,
2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.6+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of January 10, 2003, between the Company and Bryce Blair. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 11, 2003.)

10.7+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Bryce Blair, dated as of March 31, 2005.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.8+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of February 26, 2001, between the Company and Timothy J. Naughton.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 29, 2001.)

10.9+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Timothy J. Naughton, dated as of March 31,
2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.10+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2001, between the Company and Leo S. Horey. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed November 14, 2001.)


10.11+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Leo S. Horey, dated as of March 31, 2005.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005).

10.12+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2001, between the Company and Samuel B. Fuller. (Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 26, 2002.)

10.13+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Samuel B. Fuller, dated as of March 31, 2005.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005).

10.14+

—

Separation Agreement between the Company and Samuel B. Fuller, dated as of April 6, 2005. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.15+

—

Retirement Agreement, dated as of March 24, 2000, between the Company and Gilbert M. Meyer. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 15, 2000.)

10.16+

—

First Amendment to Retirement Agreement between the Company and Gilbert M. Meyer, dated as of March 31, 2005.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005).

10.17+

—

Avalon Properties, Inc. 1993 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.14 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 29, 2001.)

10.18+

—

Avalon Properties, Inc. 1995 Equity Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to
Form 10-K of the Company filed March 29, 2001.)

10.19+

—

Amendment, dated May 6, 1999, to the Avalon Properties Amended and Restated 1995 Equity Incentive Plan.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed August 16, 1999.)

10.20+

—

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994
Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated in full on December 8, 2004.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K of the Company filed
December 14, 2004.)


10.21+

—

1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated June 26, 1997, as amended and restated.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Post-effective Amendment No. 1 to Form S-8 of the Company filed
June 26, 1997, File No. 333-16837.)

10.22+

—

1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan — Plan Information Statement dated June 26, 1997.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Form S-8 of the company, File No. 333-16837.)

10.23+

—

Form of Indemnity Agreement between the Company and its Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed November 9, 2005.)

10.24+

—

The Company’s Officer Severance Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 11, 2000.)

10.25+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as
Amended and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on
November 4, 2004.)

10.26+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Incentive Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as
Amended and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on
November 4, 2004.)

10.27+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Grant and Restricted Stock Agreement.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on November 4, 2004.)

10.28+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Director Restricted Unit Agreement. (Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on November 4, 2004.)

10.29+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Director Restricted Stock Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on November 4, 2004.)

10.30

—

Amended and Restated Revolving Loan Agreement, dated as of May 24, 2004, among the Company, as Borrower,
JPMorgan Chase Bank and Wachovia Bank, N.A., each as a Bank and Syndication Agent, Bank of America, successor
in interest to Fleet National Bank, as a Bank, Swing Lender and Issuing Bank, Morgan Stanley Bank, Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A., and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, each as a Bank and Documentation Agent, the other
banks signatory thereto, each as a Bank, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., as Sole Bookrunner and Lead Arranger, and Bank of America, successor in
interest to Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form
10-Q of the Company filed August 6, 2004.)

10.31+

—

Compensation Arrangements for Directors and Named Executive Officers. (Filed herewith.)


10.32+

—

February 9, 2006, Amendment to the AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and
restated on December 8, 2004. (Filed herewith.)

12.1

—

Statements re: Computation of Ratios. (Filed herewith.)

21.1

—

Schedule of Subsidiaries of the Company. (Filed herewith.)

23.1

—

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP. (Filed herewith.)

31.1

—

Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Executive Officer). (Filed
herewith.)

31.2

—

Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Financial Officer). (Filed
herewith.)


—

Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer). (Filed herewith.)

+

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed or
incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 154(c) of Form 10-K.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

AvalonBay Communities, Inc.

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ Bryce Blair

Bryce Blair, Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ Bryce Blair

Bryce Blair, Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ Thomas J. Sargeant

Thomas J. Sargeant, Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ Bruce A. Choate

Bruce A. Choate, Director

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ John J. Healy, Jr.

John J. Healy, Jr., Director

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ Gilbert M. Meyer

Gilbert M. Meyer, Director

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ Timothy J. Naughton

Timothy J. Naughton, Director

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ Lance R. Primis

Lance R. Primis, Director

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ H. Jay Sarles

H. Jay Sarles, Director

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ Allan D. Schuster

Allan D. Schuster, Director

Date: March 13, 2006

By:

/s/ Amy P. Williams

Amy P. Williams, Director


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of

AvalonBay Communities, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of
operations and other comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule
are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. and subsidiaries at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated March 3, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

McLean, Virginia

March 3, 2006

F-1

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The
Board of Directors and Shareholders of AvalonBay Communities, Inc.:

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting in Item 9a., that AvalonBay Communities, Inc. maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria
established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and
for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that AvalonBay Communities, Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all
material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations and other
comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2005, of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. and our report dated March 3, 2006
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

McLean, Virginia

March 3, 2006

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

F-2

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

12-31-05

12-31-04

ASSETS

Real estate:

Land

$

874,199

$

863,867

Buildings and improvements

4,288,168

4,080,462

Furniture, fixtures and equipment

133,192

127,520

5,295,559

5,071,849

Less accumulated depreciation

(938,297

)

(769,459

)

Net operating real estate

4,357,262

4,302,390

Construction in progress, including land

317,823

173,290

Land held for development

188,414

156,350

Operating real estate assets held for sale, net

82,289

245,795

Total real estate, net

4,945,788

4,877,825

Cash and cash equivalents

6,106

1,521

Cash in escrow

48,266

22,138

Resident security deposits

26,290

23,478

Investments in unconsolidated real estate entities

41,942

41,379

Deferred financing costs, net

17,976

21,859

Deferred development costs

31,467

37,007

Prepaid expenses and other assets

47,225

56,042

Total assets

$

5,165,060

$

5,081,249

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Unsecured notes

$

1,809,182

$

1,859,448

Variable rate unsecured credit facility

66,800

102,000

Mortgage notes payable

490,582

489,906

Dividends payable

54,476

52,982

Payables for construction

28,203

23,005

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

82,564

73,223

Accrued interest payable

34,649

37,254

Resident security deposits

35,640

33,208

Liabilities related to real estate assets held for sale

1,837

3,407

Total liabilities

2,603,933

2,674,433

Minority interest of unitholders in consolidated partnerships

19,464

21,525

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; $25 liquidation preference;
50,000,000 shares
authorized at both December 31, 2005 and 2004; 4,000,000 shares
issued
and outstanding at both December 31, 2005 and 2004



Common stock, $0.01 par value; 140,000,000 shares authorized at both
December 31, 2005 and 2004; 73,663,048 and 72,582,076 shares issued
and outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively



Additional paid-in capital

2,442,528

2,389,511

Deferred compensation

(12,960

)

(8,659

)

Accumulated earnings less dividends

115,788

10,769

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(4,470

)

(7,096

)

Total stockholders’ equity

2,541,663

2,385,291

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

5,165,060

$

5,081,249

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-3

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

666,376

$

613,240

$

556,582

Management, development and other fees

4,304



Total revenue

670,680

613,844

557,513

Expenses:

Operating expenses, excluding property taxes

191,558

181,351

164,253

Property taxes

65,487

59,458

53,257

Interest expense, net

127,099

131,103

130,178

Depreciation expense

158,822

151,991

138,725

General and administrative expense

25,761

18,074

14,830

Total expenses

568,727

541,977

501,243

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

7,198

1,100

25,535

Venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

(1,178

)

(1,688

)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

(1,481

)

(150

)

(950

)

Income from continuing operations before
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

107,670

71,639

79,167

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

14,942

21,134

31,368

Gain on sale of real estate assets

199,766

122,425

160,990

Total discontinued operations

214,708

143,559

192,358

Income before cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle

322,378

215,198

271,525

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

4,547

—

Net income

322,378

219,745

271,525

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(10,744

)

Net income available to common stockholders

$

313,678

$

211,045

$

260,781

Other comprehensive income:

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

2,626

1,116

4,428

Comprehensive income

$

316,304

$

212,161

$

265,209

Earnings per common share — basic:

Income from continuing operations
(net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

1.36

$

0.94

$

1.00

Discontinued operations

2.94

2.01

2.80

Net income available to common stockholders

$

4.30

$

2.95

$

3.80

Earnings per common share — diluted:

Income from continuing operations
(net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

1.34

$

0.94

$

0.99

Discontinued operations

2.87

1.98

2.74

Net income available to common stockholders

$

4.21

$

2.92

$

3.73

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-4

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(Dollars in thousands)

Shares issued

Accumulated

Accumulated

Additional

earnings

other

Preferred

Common

Preferred

Common

paid-in

Deferred

less

comprehensive

Stockholders'

stock

stock

stock

stock

capital

compensation

dividends

loss

equity

Balance at December 31, 2002

7,267,700

68,202,926

$


$


$

2,273,668

$

(7,855

)

$

(59,388

)

$

(12,640

)

$

2,194,540

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

271,525

—

271,525

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4,428

4,428

Dividends declared to common
and preferred stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

—

(202,694

)

—

(202,694

)

Issuance of common stock, net of withholdings

—

3,833,600

—


162,674

(1,383

)

(114

)

—

161,215

Issuance of stock options

—

—

—

—


(754

)

—

—

—

Repurchase of common stock, including
repurchase costs

—

(1,099,000

)

—

(11

)

(32,841

)

—

(7,025

)

—

(39,877

)

Issuance of preferred stock, net of
issuance costs

3,336,611

—


—

81,704

—

—

—

81,737

Redemption of preferred stock

(6,604,311

)

—

(66

)

—

(163,378

)

—

(280

)

—

(163,724

)

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

—

4,184

—

—

4,184

Balance at December 31, 2003

4,000,000

70,937,526



2,322,581

(5,808

)

2,024

(8,212

)

2,311,334

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

219,745

—

219,745

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,116

1,116

Dividends declared to common
and preferred stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

—

(210,338

)

—

(210,338

)

Issuance of common stock, net of withholdings

—

1,644,550

—


64,849

(5,702

)

(662

)

—

58,502

Issuance of stock options

—

—

—

—

2,081

(2,081

)

—

—

—

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

—

4,932

—

—

4,932

Balance at December 31, 2004

4,000,000

72,582,076



2,389,511

(8,659

)

10,769

(7,096

)

2,385,291

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

322,378

—

322,378

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,626

2,626

Dividends declared to common
and preferred stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

—

(216,982

)

—

(216,982

)

Issuance of common stock, net of withholdings

—

1,080,972

—


48,496

(8,118

)

(377

)

—

40,012

Issuance of stock options

—

—

—

—

4,521

(4,521

)

—

—

—

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

—

8,338

—

—

8,338

Balance at December 31, 2005

4,000,000

73,663,048

$


$


$

2,442,528

$

(12,960

)

$

115,788

$

(4,470

)

$

2,541,663

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-5

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Dollars in thousands)

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

322,378

$

219,745

$

271,525

Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided
by operating activities:

Depreciation expense

158,822

151,991

138,725

Depreciation expense from discontinued operations

3,241

10,676

15,071

Amortization of deferred financing costs and debt premium/discount

4,022

3,962

3,850

Amortization of deferred compensation

8,338

4,932

4,184

Income allocated to minority interest in consolidated partnerships
including discontinued operations

1,481


1,388

Income allocated to venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

1,178

1,688

Gain on sale of real estate assets

(199,766

)

(122,425

)

(160,990

)

Gain on sale of technology investment

(6,252

)

—

—

Gain on sale of joint venture community

—

—

(23,448

)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

(4,547

)

—

Increase in cash in operating escrows

(4,344

)

(1,451

)

(557

)

Decrease (increase) in resident security deposits,
prepaid expenses and other assets

8,938

(10,589

)

(7,025

)

Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses, other liabilities
and accrued interest payable

9,781

21,958

(4,734

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

306,639

275,617

239,677

Cash flows from investing activities:

Development/redevelopment of real estate assets including
land acquisitions and deferred development costs

(382,871

)

(355,938

)

(357,520

)

Acquisition of real estate assets, including partner equity interest

(57,415

)

(128,238

)

—

Capital expenditures — existing real estate assets

(17,570

)

(12,984

)

(11,593

)

Capital expenditures — non-real estate assets

(1,520

)

(860

)

(274

)

Proceeds from sale of communities and technology investment,
including reimbursement for Fund communities, net of selling costs

469,737

219,649

403,118

Increase (decrease) in payables for construction

5,198

(3,962

)

(331

)

Decrease (increase) in cash in construction escrows

(21,784

)


(1,040

)

Repayment of participating mortgage note, including
interest and prepayment premium

—

34,846

—

Decrease (increase) in investments in unconsolidated real estate entities

(13,536

)

(4,397

)

1,575

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

(19,761

)

(251,683

)

33,935

Cash flows from financing activities:

Issuance of common stock

36,611

54,031

146,934

Repurchase of common stock

—

—

(39,877

)

Issuance of preferred stock, net of related costs

—

—

81,737

Redemption of preferred stock and related costs

—

—

(163,724

)

Dividends paid

(215,391

)

(209,095

)

(202,416

)

Net borrowings (repayments) under unsecured credit facility

(35,200

)

50,900

22,130

Issuance of mortgage notes payable and draws on construction loans

26,269

105,843

38,829

Repayments of mortgage notes payable

(41,932

)

(40,270

)

(4,582

)

Issuance (repayment) of unsecured notes

(50,000

)

25,000

(150,000

)

Payment of deferred financing costs

(1,292

)

(9,318

)

(1,477

)

Redemption of units for cash by minority partners

(50

)

(1,691

)

(600

)

Distributions to DownREIT partnership unitholders

(1,194

)

(1,425

)

(2,152

)

Distributions to joint venture and profit-sharing partners

(114

)

(3,446

)

(4,267

)

Net cash used in financing activities

(282,293

)

(29,471

)

(279,465

)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

4,585

(5,537

)

(5,853

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

1,521

7,058

12,911

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

6,106

$

1,521

$

7,058

Cash paid during year for interest, net of amount capitalized

$

121,526

$

124,895

$

131,266

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-6

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (continued)

Supplemental disclosures of non-cash investing and financing activities (dollars in thousands):

During the year ended December 31, 2005:

•

As described in Note 4, “Stockholders’ Equity,” 165,790 shares of common stock were
issued in connection with stock grants, 1,295 shares were issued through the Company’s
dividend reinvestment plan, 8,971 shares were issued to a member of the Board of Directors
in fulfillment of a deferred stock award, 50,916 shares were withheld to satisfy employees’
tax withholding and other liabilities and 9,965 shares were forfeited, for a net value of
$9,317. In addition, the Company granted 696,484 options for common stock, net of
forfeitures, at a value of $4,521.

•

49,263 units of limited partnership, valued at $2,202, were presented for redemption to
the DownREIT partnerships that issued such units and were acquired by the Company in
exchange for an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock.

•

The Company deconsolidated mortgage notes payable in the aggregate amount of
$24,869 upon admittance of outside investors into the Fund (as defined in Note 6,
“Investments in Unconsolidated Entities”).

•

The Company assumed fixed rate debt of $4,566 as part of the acquisition of an
improved land parcel.

•

The Company recorded a decrease to other liabilities and a corresponding gain to other
comprehensive income of $2,626 to adjust the Company’s Hedged Derivatives (as defined in
Note 5, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”) to their fair value.

•

Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid totaled $54,476.

During the year ended December 31, 2004:

•

147,517 shares of common stock were issued in connection with stock grants, 78,509
shares were issued in connection with non-cash stock option exercises, 1,545 shares were
issued through the Company’s dividend reinvestment plan, 75,515 shares were withheld to
satisfy employees’ tax withholding and other liabilities and 3,012 shares were forfeited,
for a net value of $6,138. In addition, the Company granted 465,232 options for common
stock, net of forfeitures, at a value of $2,081.

•

104,160 units of limited partnership, valued at $4,035, were presented for redemption to
the DownREIT partnerships that issued such units and were acquired by the Company in
exchange for an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock.

•

The Company sold two communities with mortgage notes payable of $28,335 in the
aggregate, that were assumed by the respective buyers as part of the total sales price.

•

The Company assumed fixed rate debt of $8,155 in connection with the acquisition of a
community and $20,141 in connection with the acquisition of three improved land parcels.

•

The Company recorded a decrease to other liabilities and a corresponding gain to other
comprehensive income of $1,116 to adjust the Company’s Hedged Derivatives to their fair
value.

•

Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid totaled $52,982.

During the year ended December 31, 2003:

•

114,895 shares of common stock were issued in connection with stock grants, 37,124
shares were withheld to satisfy employees’ tax withholding and other liabilities and 12,102
shares were forfeited, for a net value of $2,419. In addition, the Company granted 268,101
options for common stock, net of forfeitures, at a value of $754.

•

328,731 units of limited partnership, valued at $13,245, were presented for
redemption to the DownREIT partnerships that issued such units and were acquired by the
Company in exchange for an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock.

•

The Company sold two communities that were subject to mortgage notes payable of $39,665
in the aggregate, that were assumed by the buyers as part of the total sales price. $260 of
deferred stock units were converted into 6,989 shares of common stock.

•

The Company recorded a decrease to other liabilities and a corresponding gain to other
comprehensive income of $4,428 to adjust the Company’s Hedged Derivatives to their fair
value.

•

Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid totaled $51,831.

F-7

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

1.

Organization and Significant Accounting Policies

Organization

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the “Company,” which term, unless the context otherwise requires,
refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries) is a Maryland corporation
that has elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) under the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended. The Company focuses on the development, ownership and operation of
apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. These markets are
located in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern
California regions of the country.

At December 31, 2005, the Company owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 143
operating apartment communities containing 41,412 apartment homes in ten states and the District of
Columbia, of which two communities containing 506 apartment homes were under reconstruction. In
addition, the Company owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 15 communities under
construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 4,062 apartment homes when completed.
The Company also owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in rights to develop an
additional 47 communities that, if developed in the manner expected, will contain an estimated
12,495 apartment homes.

Principles of Consolidation

The Company is the surviving corporation from the merger (the “Merger”) of Bay Apartment
Communities, Inc. (“Bay”) and Avalon Properties, Inc. (“Avalon”) on June 4, 1998, in which Avalon
shareholders received 0.7683 of a share of common stock of the Company for each share owned of
Avalon common stock. The Merger was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, with
the historical financial statements for Avalon presented prior to the Merger. At that time, Avalon
ceased to legally exist, and Bay as the surviving legal entity adopted the historical financial
statements of Avalon. Consequently, Bay’s assets were recorded in the historical financial
statements of Avalon at an amount equal to Bay’s debt outstanding at that time plus the value of
capital stock retained by the Bay stockholders, which approximates fair value. In connection with
the Merger, the Company changed its name from Bay Apartment Communities, Inc. to AvalonBay
Communities, Inc.

The Company assesses consolidation of variable interest entities under the guidance of FASB
Interpretation No. 46 (“FIN 46”), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation
of ARB No. 51,” as revised in December 2003. The Company accounts for joint venture partnerships
and subsidiary partnerships structured as DownREITs that are not variable interest entities in
accordance with Statement of Position (“SOP”) 78-9, “Accounting for Investments in Real Estate
Ventures.” Under SOP 78-9, the Company consolidates joint venture and DownREIT partnerships when
the Company controls the major operating and financial policies of the partnership through majority
ownership or in its capacity as general partner. The accompanying Consolidated Financial
Statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned partnerships, certain joint
venture partnerships, subsidiary partnerships structured as DownREITs and any variable interest
entities consolidated under FIN 46. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have
been eliminated in consolidation.

In each of the partnerships structured as DownREITs, either the Company or one of the Company’s
wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are one or more limited partners whose
interest in the partnership is represented by units of limited partnership interest. For each
DownREIT partnership, limited partners are entitled to receive an initial distribution before any
distribution is made to the general partner. Although the partnership agreements for each of the
DownREITs are different, generally the distributions per unit paid to the holders of units of
limited partnership interests have approximated the Company’s current common stock dividend per
share. Each DownREIT partnership has been structured so that it is unlikely the limited partners
will be entitled to a distribution greater than the initial distribution provided for in the
partnership agreement. The holders of units of limited partnership interest have the right to
present all or some of their units for redemption for a cash amount as determined by the

F-8

applicable partnership agreement and based on the fair value of the Company’s common stock. In
lieu of a cash redemption, the Company may elect to acquire such units for an equal number of
shares of the Company’s common stock.

The Company accounts for investments in unconsolidated entities that are not variable interest
entities in accordance with SOP 78-9 and Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 18, “The
Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock.” The Company uses the equity method
to account for these investments when it owns greater than 20% of the equity value or has
significant and influence over that entity. Investments in which the Company owns
20% or less of the equity value and does not have significant influence are
accounted for using the cost method. If there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates
a loss in the value of an investment, the Company’s policy is to record the loss and reduce the
value of the investment to its fair value. A loss in value would be indicated if the Company could
not recover the carrying value of the investment or if the investee could not sustain an earnings
capacity that would justify the carrying amount of the investment. During the year ended December
31, 2004, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $1,002 related to a technology investment,
which is included in operating expenses, excluding property taxes on the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. The Company did not recognize an
impairment loss on any of its investments in unconsolidated entities during the years ended
December 31, 2005 or 2003.

Revenue Recognition

Rental income related to leases is recognized on an accrual basis when due from residents in
accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, “Revenue Recognition” and Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 13, “Accounting for Leases.” In accordance with the
Company’s standard lease terms, rental payments are generally due on a monthly basis. Any cash
concessions given at the inception of the lease are amortized over the approximate life of the
lease, which is generally one year.

Real Estate

Significant expenditures which improve or extend the life of an asset are capitalized. The
operating real estate assets are stated at cost and consist of land, buildings and improvements,
furniture, fixtures and equipment, and other costs incurred during their development, redevelopment
and acquisition. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.

The Company’s policy with respect to capital expenditures is
 generally to capitalize only
non-recurring expenditures. Improvements and upgrades are capitalized only if the item exceeds $15,
extends the useful life of the asset and is not related to making an apartment home ready for the
next resident. Purchases of personal property, such as computers and furniture, are capitalized
only if the item is a new addition and exceeds $2.5. The Company generally expenses purchases of
personal property made for replacement purposes.

The capitalization of costs during the development of assets (including interest and related loan
fees, property taxes and other direct and indirect costs) begins when  development efforts commence
and ends when the asset, or a portion of an asset, is delivered and is ready for its intended use,
which is generally indicated by the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. Cost capitalization
during redevelopment of apartment homes (including interest and related loan fees, property taxes
and other direct and indirect costs) begins when an apartment home is taken out-of-service for
redevelopment and ends when the apartment home redevelopment is completed and the apartment home is
available for a new resident. Rental income and operating costs incurred during the initial
lease-up or post-redevelopment lease-up period are fully recognized as they accrue.

In accordance with SFAS No. 67, “Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate
Projects,” the Company capitalizes pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new development
opportunities for which the Company currently believes future development is probable (“Development
Rights”). Future development of these Development Rights is dependent upon various factors,
including zoning and regulatory approval, rental market conditions, construction costs and
availability of capital. Pre-development costs incurred in the pursuit of Development Rights for
which future development is not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In addition, if
the status of a Development Right changes, deeming future development no longer probable, any
capitalized pre-development costs are written-off with a charge to expense. The Company expensed
costs related to abandoned pursuits, which includes the abandonment or impairment of Development
Rights, acquisition pursuits,

F-9

disposition pursuits and technology investments, in the amounts of $816, $1,726 and $1,180 for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These costs are included in operating
expenses, excluding property taxes on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and
Other Comprehensive Income.

The Company owns land improved with office buildings and industrial space occupied by unrelated
third-parties in connection with five Development Rights. The Company intends to manage the
current improvements until such time as all tenant obligations have been satisfied or eliminated
through negotiation, and construction of new apartment communities is ready to begin. As provided
under the guidance of SFAS No. 67, the revenue from incidental operations received from the current
improvements in excess of any incremental costs are being recorded as a reduction of total
capitalized costs of the Development Right and not as part of net income.

In connection with the acquisition of an operating community, the Company performs a valuation and
allocation to each asset and liability acquired in such transaction, based on their estimated fair
values at the date of acquisition in accordance with SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations.” The
purchase price allocations to tangible assets, such as land, buildings and improvements, and
furniture, fixtures and equipment, are reflected in real estate assets and depreciated over their
estimated useful lives. Any purchase price allocation to intangible assets, such as in-place
leases, is included in prepaid expenses and other assets and amortized over the average remaining
lease term of the acquired leases. The fair value of acquired in-place leases is determined based
on the estimated cost to replace such leases, including foregone rents during an assumed re-lease
period, as well as the impact on projected cash flow of acquired leases with leased rents above or
below current market rents.

Depreciation is calculated on buildings and improvements using the straight-line method over their
estimated useful lives, which range from seven to thirty years. Furniture, fixtures and equipment
are generally depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which
range from three years (primarily computer-related equipment) to seven years.

If there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates an impairment in the value of an
operating community, the Company’s policy is to assess any impairment in value by making a
comparison of the current and projected operating cash flow of the community over its remaining
useful life, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying amount of the community. If the carrying
amount is in excess of the estimated projected operating cash flow of the community, the Company
would recognize an impairment loss equivalent to an amount required to adjust the carrying amount
to its estimated fair market value. The Company has not recognized an impairment loss on any of
its operating communities during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003.

Income Taxes

The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for
the year ended December 31, 1994 and has not revoked such election. A corporate REIT is a legal
entity which holds real estate interests and must meet a number of organizational and operational
requirements, including a requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its adjusted
taxable income to stockholders. As a REIT, the Company generally will not be subject to corporate
level federal income tax on taxable income it distributes currently to its stockholders. Management
believes that all such conditions for the avoidance of income taxes have been met for the periods
presented. Accordingly, no provision for federal and state income taxes has been made. If the
Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes
at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able
to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation
as a REIT, the Company may be subject to certain state and local taxes on its income and property,
and to federal income and excise taxes on its undistributed taxable income. In addition, taxable
income from non-REIT activities managed through taxable REIT subsidiaries is subject to federal,
state and local income taxes.

F-10

The following reconciles net income available to common stockholders to taxable net income for the
years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:




Estimate

Actual

Actual

Net income available to common stockholders

$

313,678

$

211,045

$

260,781

Dividends attributable to preferred stock,
not deductible for tax

8,700

8,700

10,744

GAAP gain on sale of communities less than (in excess of) tax gain

(2,482

)

8,305

(3,795

)

Depreciation/Amortization timing differences on real estate

(3,861

)

(3,793

)

(5,574

)

Tax compensation expense in excess of GAAP

(18,969

)

(19,758

)

(4,254

)

Other adjustments

(2,021

)

(9,835

)

(9,190

)

Taxable net income

$

295,045

$

194,664

$

248,712

The following summarizes the tax components of the Company’s common and preferred dividends
declared for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:




Ordinary income

9%

39%

11%

20% capital gain

—

—

15%

15% capital gain

77%

51%

56%

Unrecaptured §1250 gain

14%

10%

18%

Deferred Financing Costs

Deferred financing costs include fees and costs incurred to obtain debt financing and are amortized
on a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective interest method, over the shorter of the
term of the loan or the related credit enhancement facility, if applicable. Unamortized financing
costs are written-off when debt is retired before the maturity date. Accumulated amortization of
deferred financing costs was $16,074 at December 31, 2005 and $12,966 at December 31, 2004.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Cash in Escrow

Cash and cash equivalents include all cash and liquid investments with an original maturity of
three months or less from the date acquired. The majority of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents
and cash in escrows is held at major commercial banks.

Interest Rate Contracts

The Company utilizes derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk and has
designated these financial instruments as hedges under the guidance of SFAS No. 133, “Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” and SFAS No. 138, “Accounting for Certain
Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, an Amendment of Statement No. 133.” For fair value
hedge transactions, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument and changes in the fair
value of the hedged item due to the risk being hedged are recognized in current period earnings.
For cash flow hedge transactions, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are
reported in other comprehensive income. For cash flow hedges where the changes in the fair value
of the derivative exceed the change in fair value of the hedged item, the ineffective portion is
recognized in current period earnings. Derivatives which are not part of a hedge relationship are
recorded at fair value through earnings. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had
approximately $233,000 and $236,000, respectively, in variable rate debt subject to cash flow
hedges. See Note 5, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.”

F-11

Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive Income, as reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other
Comprehensive Income, is defined as all changes in equity during each period except for those
resulting from investments by or distributions to shareholders. Accumulated other comprehensive
loss as reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity reflects the changes in
the fair value of effective cash flow hedges.

Earnings per Common Share

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 128, “Earnings per Share,” basic earnings per share
is computed by dividing earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of
shares outstanding during the period. Other potentially dilutive common shares, and the related
impact to earnings, are considered when calculating earnings per share on a diluted basis. The
Company’s earnings per common share are determined as follows:

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Basic and diluted shares outstanding

Weighted average common shares — basic

72,952,492

71,564,202

68,559,657

Weighted average DownREIT units outstanding

474,440

573,529

893,279

Effect of dilutive securities

1,332,386

1,217,225

750,531

Weighted average common shares — diluted

74,759,318

73,354,956

70,203,467

Calculation of Earnings per Share — basic

Net income available to common stockholders

$

313,678

$

211,045

$

260,781

Weighted average common shares — basic

72,952,492

71,564,202

68,559,657

Earnings per common share — basic

$

4.30

$

2.95

$

3.80

Calculation of Earnings per Share — diluted

Net income available to common stockholders

$

313,678

$

211,045

$

260,781

Add: Minority interest of DownREIT unitholders

in consolidated partnerships, including discontinued operations

1,363

3,048

1,263

Adjusted net income available to common stockholders

$

315,041

$

214,093

$

262,044

Weighted average common shares — diluted

74,759,318

73,354,956

70,203,467

Earnings per common share — diluted

$

4.21

$

2.92

$

3.73

Certain options to purchase shares of common stock in the amounts of 4,500, 6,000 and
1,348,738 were outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, but
were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options’ exercise
prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares for the period and
therefore, are anti-dilutive.

Stock-Based Compensation

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No.
123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” as amended by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure — an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123,”
prospectively to all employee awards granted, modified, or settled on or after January 1, 2003.
Awards under the Company’s stock option plans vest over periods ranging from one to three years. Therefore, the cost related to
stock-based employee compensation for employee stock options included in the determination of net
income for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is less than that which would have been
recognized if the fair value based method had been applied to all awards since the original
effective date of SFAS No. 123. The Company will adopt the provisions of SFAS 123(R), “Share Based
Payment,” using the modified prospective transition method on January 1, 2006. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 123(R) to have a
material impact on its financial position or results of operations. However, the adoption of SFAS
123(R) will change the service period for, and timing of, the recognition of compensation cost related to retirement
eligibility, which will generally result in accelerated expense recognition by the Company for its stock based compensation programs. The Company currently records compensation cost over the vesting period, regardless of eligibility for retirement (see Note 8,
“Commitments and Contigencies,” for a discussion of the Company’s retirement plan). If the Company had recorded compensation cost based on retirement eligibility, the increase to
compensation cost during the year ended December 31, 2005 would not have been material.

F-12

The following table illustrates the effect on net income available to common stockholders and
earnings per share if the fair value based method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested
awards in each period based on the fair market value as determined on the date of grant:

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Net income available to common stockholders, as reported

$

313,678

$

211,045

$

260,781

Add:

Actual compensation expense recorded under fair value
based method, net of related tax effects

2,133



Deduct:

Total compensation expense determined under fair value
based method, net of related tax effects

(2,245

)

(1,834

)

(2,335

)

Pro forma net income available to common stockholders

$

313,566

$

210,078

$

258,692

Earnings per share:

Basic — as reported

$

4.30

$

2.95

$

3.80

Basic — pro forma

$

4.30

$

2.94

$

3.77

Diluted — as reported

$

4.21

$

2.92

$

3.73

Diluted — pro forma

$

4.21

$

2.91

$

3.70

Variable Interest Entities under FIN 46

The Company adopted the final provisions of FIN 46 as of January 1, 2004, which resulted in the
consolidation of one entity during 2004 from which the Company held a participating mortgage note.
As a result, the Company recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in
January 2004 in the amount of $4,547, which increased earnings per common share — diluted by
$0.06. The Company did not hold an equity interest in this entity, and therefore 100% of the
entity’s net income or loss was recognized by the Company as minority interest in consolidated
partnerships on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. In
October 2004, the Company received payment in full of the outstanding mortgage note. Upon note
repayment, the Company did not continue to hold a variable interest in this entity and therefore
the Company discontinued consolidating the entity under the provisions of FIN 46. Related interest
income for the year ended December 31, 2003 of $3,168 is included in interest expense, net, in the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. Related
interest income in the year ended December 31, 2004 has been eliminated in consolidation.

Discontinued Operations

The Company follows SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”
which requires that the assets and liabilities and the results of operations of any communities
which have been sold, or otherwise qualify as held for sale, be presented as discontinued
operations in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements in both current and prior years
presented. The community specific components of net income that are presented as discontinued
operations include net operating income, depreciation expense, minority interest expense and
interest expense. In addition, the net gain or loss (including any impairment loss) on the
eventual disposal of communities held for sale will be presented as discontinued operations when recognized. A change
in presentation for discontinued operations will not have any impact on the Company’s financial
condition or results of operations. Real estate assets held for sale are measured at the lower of
the carrying amount or the fair value less the cost to sell, and are presented separately in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Subsequent to classification of a community as held for
sale, no further depreciation is recorded.

F-13

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In June 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ratified the consensus in EITF
Issue No. 04-5, “Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group,
Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights,”
which provides guidance in determining whether a general partner controls a limited partnership.
EITF Issue No. 04-5 states that the general partner in a limited partnership is presumed to control
that limited partnership. That presumption may be overcome if the limited partners have either (i)
the substantive ability, either by a single limited partner or through a simple majority vote, to
dissolve the limited partnership or otherwise remove the general partner without cause or (ii)
substantive participating rights. The Company adopted EITF Issue No. 04-5 on June 29, 2005 for all
new limited partnerships formed or existing limited partnerships that were modified after June 29,
2005 and will adopt EITF Issue No. 04-5 on January 1, 2006 for other existing limited partnerships.
The Company does not expect the final adoption of EITF Issue No. 04-5 to have a material impact on
its financial position or results of operations.

In October 2005, the FASB issued Staff Position (“FSP”) 13-1, “Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred
During a Construction Period,” which addresses the accounting for rental costs incurred during and
after construction. FSP 13-1 is applicable for all reporting periods beginning after December 15,
2005 and concludes that rental costs incurred during and after a construction period are for the
right to control the use of a leased asset during and after construction of a lessee asset. There
is no distinction between the right to use that asset after the construction period. Therefore,
rental costs associated with ground or building operating leases that are incurred during a
construction period shall be recognized as rental expense. However, the capitalization of rental
costs as allowed under the guidance of SFAS No. 67 is still
appropriate and applicable. As such, the adoption of FSP 13-1 will not have a material impact on
the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
(“GAAP”) in the United States requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These
estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts
of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts in prior years’ financial statements to conform
with current year presentations.

2.

Interest Capitalized

Capitalized interest associated with communities under development or redevelopment totaled
$25,284, $20,566 and $24,709 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

F-14

3.

Notes Payable, Unsecured Notes and Credit Facility

The Company’s mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and variable rate unsecured credit facility
as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 are summarized as follows:

12-31-05

12-31-04

Fixed rate
unsecured notes

(1)

$

1,809,182

$

1,859,448

Fixed rate mortgage notes payable — conventional and tax-exempt

239,025

263,669

Variable rate mortgage notes payable — conventional and tax-exempt

219,010

219,959

Total notes payable and unsecured notes

2,267,217

2,343,076

Variable rate secured short-term debt

32,547

6,278

Variable rate unsecured credit facility

66,800

102,000

Total mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and unsecured credit facility

$

2,366,564

$

2,451,354

(1)

Balances at December 31, 2005 and 2004 include $818 and $552 of debt discount, respectively, from issuance of unsecured notes.

The following debt activity occurred during the year ended December 31, 2005:

•

The Company repaid $150,000 in previously issued unsecured notes in January 2005, along
with any unpaid interest, pursuant to their scheduled maturity. No prepayment penalty was
incurred;

•

The Company issued $100,000 in unsecured notes in March 2005 under its existing shelf
registration statement at an annual effective interest rate of 4.999%. Interest on these
notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15, and they mature in March
2013;

•

In connection with the admittance of outside investors into the Fund (as defined in
Note 6, “Investments in Unconsolidated Entities”), the Company deconsolidated the assets
and liabilities of four communities owned by the Fund including $24,869 in fixed rate
mortgage debt secured by two of the communities;

•

The Company made a payment in the amount of $36,142 to the third-party lender of a
joint venture entity that was unconsolidated at December 31, 2004 but was consolidated in
March 2005 upon acquisition of the 75% equity interest of the third-party partner; and

•

The Company assumed $4,566 in fixed rate debt in connection with the acquisition of a
parcel of improved land.

In the aggregate, secured notes payable mature at various dates from September 2007 through April
2043 and are secured by certain apartment communities (with a net carrying value of $689,624 as of
December 31, 2005). As of December 31, 2005, the Company
has guaranteed approximately $100,844 of
mortgage notes payable held by wholly-owned subsidiaries; all such mortgage notes payable are
consolidated for financial reporting purposes. The weighted average interest rate of the Company’s
fixed rate mortgage notes payable (conventional and tax-exempt) was 6.8% at December 31, 2005 and
6.7% at December 31, 2004. The weighted average interest rate of the Company’s variable rate
mortgage notes payable and its unsecured credit facility (as discussed on the following page),
including the effect of certain financing related fees, was 5.5% at December 31, 2005 and 3.8% at
December 31, 2004.

F-15

Scheduled payments and maturities of mortgage notes payable and unsecured notes outstanding at
December 31, 2005 are as follows:

Stated

Secured notes

Secured notes

Unsecured notes

interest rate of

Year

payments

maturities

maturities

unsecured notes


$

6,987

$

—

150,000

6.800

%


6,741

32,547

110,000

6.875

%

150,000

5.000

%


7,155

4,356

50,000

6.625

%

150,000

8.250

%


6,141

73,784

150,000

7.500

%


4,271

28,989

200,000

7.500

%


4,095

7,204

300,000

6.625

%

50,000

6.625

%


3,570

12,096

250,000

6.125

%


3,513

—

100,000

4.950

%


3,754

33,100

150,000

5.375

%


4,012

—

—

—

Thereafter

70,678

177,589

—

—

$

120,917

$

369,665

$

1,810,000

The Company’s unsecured notes contain a number of financial and other covenants with which the
Company must comply, including, but not limited to, limits on the aggregate amount of total and
secured indebtedness the Company may have on a consolidated basis and limits on the Company’s
required debt service payments.

The Company has a $500,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit
facility with JPMorgan Chase
Bank and Wachovia Bank, N.A. serving as banks and syndication agents for a
syndicate of commercial banks and Bank of America, serving as bank
and administrative agent. The Company had $66,800 outstanding under the facility and $40,154
in letters of credit on December 31, 2005 and $102,000 outstanding under the facility and $26,580
in letters of credit on December 31, 2004. Under the terms of
the credit facility, the Company may

elect to increase the facility by up to an additional $150,000,
provided that one or more banks (from the
syndicate or otherwise) voluntarily agree to provide the additional commitment. No member of the syndicate of banks can
prohibit such increase; such an increase in the facility will only be effective to the extent banks
(from the syndicate or otherwise) choose to commit to lend additional funds. The Company pays
participating banks, in the aggregate, an annual facility fee of approximately $750. The unsecured credit facility bears interest at
varying levels based on the London
Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), rating levels achieved on the Company’s unsecured notes and on a
maturity schedule selected by the Company. The current stated pricing is LIBOR plus 0.55% per
annum (5.94% on December 31, 2005). The spread over LIBOR can vary from LIBOR plus 0.50% to LIBOR
plus 1.15% based upon the rating of the Company’s long-term unsecured debt. In addition, the
unsecured credit facility includes a competitive bid option, which allows banks that are part of
the lender consortium to bid to make loans to the Company at a rate that is lower than the stated
rate provided by the unsecured credit facility for up to $250,000. The competitive bid option may
result in lower pricing if market conditions allow. The Company has $25,000 outstanding under this
competitive bid option as of December 31, 2005 priced at LIBOR plus 0.29%, or
4.48%. The Company is subject to (i) certain customary covenants under the unsecured credit
facility, including, but not limited to, maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios, a minimum
fixed charges coverage ratio and minimum unencumbered assets and equity levels and (ii)
prohibitions on paying dividends in amounts that exceed 95% of the Company’s Funds from Operations,
as defined therein, except as may be required to maintain the Company’s REIT status. The credit
facility matures in May 2008, assuming exercise of a one-year renewal option by the Company.

F-16

4.

Stockholders’ Equity

As of both December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had authorized for issuance 140,000,000 and
50,000,000 shares of common and preferred stock, respectively. As of December 31, 2005 the
Company has the following series of redeemable preferred stock outstanding at a stated value of
$100,000. This series has no stated maturity and is not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory
redemptions.

Shares outstanding

Payable

Annual

Liquidation

Non-redeemable

Series

December 31, 2005

quarterly

rate

preference

prior to

H

4,000,000

March, June, September, December

8.70%

$25.00

October 15, 2008

Dividends on the preferred stock are cumulative from the date of original issue and are
payable quarterly in arrears on or before the 15th day of each month as stated in the table above.
The preferred stock is not redeemable prior to the date stated in the table above, but on or after
the stated date, may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company in whole or in part at a
redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends, if any.

During the year ended
December 31, 2005, the Company (i) issued 903,162 shares of common stock in
connection with stock options exercised, (ii) issued 49,263 shares of common stock in exchange for
the redemption of an equal number of DownREIT limited partnership units, (iii) issued 13,372 shares
to employees under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, (iv) issued 8,971 shares of common stock to a
member of the Board of Directors in fulfillment of a deferred stock award, (v) issued 1,295 shares
through the Company’s dividend reinvestment plan, (vi) issued 165,790 common shares in connection
with stock grants to employees of which 80% are restricted, (vii) had forfeitures of 9,965 shares
of restricted stock grants to employees and (viii) withheld 50,916 shares to satisfy employees’ tax
withholding and other liabilities.

Dividends per common share for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $2.84, and for each of the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were $2.80 per share. In 2005 and 2004, average dividends
for all non-redeemed preferred shares during the year were $2.18 per share, and no preferred shares
were redeemed. In 2003, average dividends for preferred shares redeemed during the year were $0.27
per share and average dividends for all non-redeemed preferred shares were $2.18 per share.

In 2004, the Company resumed its Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the “DRIP”). The
DRIP allows for holders of the Company’s common stock or preferred stock to purchase shares of
common stock through either reinvested dividends or optional cash payments. The purchase price per
share for newly issued shares of common stock under the DRIP will be equal to the last reported
sale price for a share of the Company’s common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange
(“NYSE”) on the applicable investment date.

5.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

The Company has historically used interest rate swap and cap agreements (collectively, the “Hedged
Derivatives”) to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations on its variable rate, tax-exempt
bonds and its variable rate conventional secured debt. The Company has not entered into any
interest rate hedge agreements or treasury locks for its conventional unsecured debt and does not
hold interest rate hedge agreements for trading or other speculative purposes. As of December 31,
2005, the Hedged Derivatives fix approximately $67,000 of the Company’s tax-exempt debt at a
weighted average interest rate of 6.3% through interest rate swaps. In addition, as of December
31, 2005, the Company has Hedged Derivatives on approximately $166,000 of its variable rate debt,
which floats at a weighted average coupon interest rate of 4.5% and has been capped at a weighted
average interest rate of 8.0% through interest rate caps. These Hedged Derivatives have maturity
dates ranging from 2007 to 2010. The Hedged Derivatives are accounted for in accordance with SFAS
No. 133. SFAS No. 133 requires that every derivative instrument be recorded on the balance sheet
as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value, with changes in fair value recognized
currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.

The Company has determined that its Hedged Derivatives qualify as
effective cash-flow hedges under
SFAS No. 133, resulting in the Company recording the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the Hedged
Derivatives in other comprehensive income. Amounts recorded in other comprehensive income will be
reclassified into earnings in the period in which

F-17

earnings are affected by the hedged cash flow. To adjust the Hedged Derivatives to their fair
value, the Company recorded unrealized gains to other comprehensive income of $2,626, $1,116 and
$4,428 during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The estimated
amount, included in accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2005, expected to be
reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months to offset the variability of cash flow
during this period is not material.

The Company assesses, both at inception and on an on-going basis, the effectiveness of all hedges
in offsetting cash flow of hedged items. Hedge ineffectiveness did not have a material impact on
earnings and the Company does not anticipate that it will have a material effect in the future.
The fair values of the obligations under the Hedged Derivatives are included in accrued expenses
and other liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

By using derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to changes in interest rates, the
Company exposes itself to credit risk and market risk. The credit risk is the risk of a
counterparty not performing under the terms of the Hedged Derivatives. The counterparties to these
Hedged Derivatives are major financial institutions which have an A+ or better credit rating by the
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group. The Company monitors the credit ratings of counterparties and the
amount of the Company’s debt subject to Hedged Derivatives with any one party. Therefore, the
Company believes the likelihood of realizing material losses from counterparty non-performance is
remote. Market risk is the adverse effect of the value of financial instruments that results from
a change in interest rates. The market risk associated with interest-rate contracts is managed by
the establishment and monitoring of parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that
may be undertaken. These risks are managed by the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Senior
Vice President — Finance.

6.

Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities

As of December 31, 2005, all of the Company’s investments
in unconsolidated real estate entities
were originated prior to and had not been modified since June 29, 2005, and were not considered
variable interest entities under FIN 46. Therefore, these investments are accounted for in accordance with SOP
78-9 and APB Opinion No. 18. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had investments in the following
real estate entities.

•

Town Run Associates

was formed as a general partnership in November 1994 to develop,
own and operate Avalon Run, a 426 apartment-home community located in Lawrenceville,
New Jersey. Since formation of this venture, the Company has invested $1,803 and,
following a preferred return on all contributed equity (which was not achieved in
2005), has a 40% ownership and cash flow interest with a 49% residual economic
interest. The Company is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Avalon Run
community and is the management agent subject to the terms of a management agreement.
The development of Avalon Run was funded entirely through equity contributions from
Avalon as well as the other venture partner, and therefore Avalon Run is not subject to
any outstanding debt as of December 31, 2005.  This community is unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes and is accounted for under the equity method.

•

Town Grove, LLC

was formed as a limited liability corporation in December 1997 to
develop, own and operate Avalon Grove, a 402 apartment-home community located in
Stamford, Connecticut. Since formation of this venture, the Company has invested
$14,653 and, following a preferred return on all contributed equity (which was achieved
in 2005), has a 50% ownership and a 50% cash flow and residual economic interest. The
Company is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Avalon Grove community and
is the management agent subject to the terms of a management agreement. The
development of Avalon Grove was funded through contributions from the Company and the
other venture partner, and therefore Avalon Grove is not subject to any outstanding
debt as of December 31, 2005.  This community is unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes and is accounted for under the equity method.

•

Avalon Terrace, LLC

— The Company acquired Avalon Bedford, a 368 apartment-home
community located in Stamford, Connecticut in December 1998. In May 2000, the Company
transferred Avalon Bedford to Avalon Terrace, LLC and subsequently admitted a joint
venture partner, while retaining a 25% ownership interest in this limited liability
company for an investment of $5,394 and a right to

F-18

50% of cash flow distributions after achievement of a threshold return (which was not achieved
in 2005). The Company is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Avalon Bedford
community and is the management agent subject to the terms of a management agreement. In
2005, Avalon Bedford refinanced its outstanding debt. As of December 31, 2005, Avalon
Bedford has $37,200 in 5.2% fixed rate debt outstanding, which matures in November 2010. As
part of the refinancing, the Company received a distribution of $3,714. Avalon Bedford’s
debt is neither guaranteed by nor recourse to the Company.  This community is unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes and is accounted for under the equity method.

•

Arna Valley View LP

— In connection with the municipal approval process for the
development of a consolidated community, the Company agreed to participate in the
formation of a limited partnership in February 1999 to develop, finance, own and
operate Arna Valley View, a 101 apartment-home community located in Arlington,
Virginia. This community has affordable rents for 100% of apartment homes related to
the tax-exempt bond financing and tax credits used to finance construction of the
community. A subsidiary of the Company is the general partner of the partnership with
a 0.01% ownership interest. The Company is responsible for the day-to-day operations
of the community and is the management agent subject to the terms of a management
agreement. As of December 31, 2005, Arna Valley View has $5,843 of variable rate,
tax-exempt bonds outstanding, which mature in June 2032. In addition, Arna Valley View
has $4,805 of 4% fixed rate county bonds outstanding that mature in December 2030.
Arna Valley View’s debt is neither guaranteed by nor recourse to the Company. Due to the
Company’s limited ownership and investment in this venture, it is accounted for using
the cost method.

•

CVP I, LLC

— In February 2004, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement
with an unrelated third-party for the development of Avalon Chrystie Place I, a 361
apartment-home community located in New York, New York, for which construction was
completed in late 2005. The Company has contributed $6,270 to this joint venture and
holds a 20% equity interest (with a right to 50% of distributions after achievement of
a threshold return, which was not achieved in 2005). The Company is the managing
member of CVP I, LLC, however property management services at the community are
performed by a third party. As of December 31, 2005, CVP I, LLC has a variable rate
construction loan in the amount of $117,000 outstanding which matures in February 2009.
In connection with the general contractor services that the Company provided to CVP I,
LLC during the development of Avalon Chrystie Place I, the Company has provided a
construction completion guarantee to the construction loan lender in order to fulfill
their standard financing requirements related to the construction financing.
Under the terms of the guarantee, in the event of default, the Company would be required to make payment for any excess cost to complete construction over any undisbursed loan proceeds.
The
obligation of the Company under this guarantee will terminate once all of the lender’s
standard completion requirements have been satisfied, which the Company expects to
occur in early 2006. As construction of Avalon Chrystie Place I is
complete, no liability for this guarantee is recorded as of December 31, 2005. This community is unconsolidated for
financial reporting purposes and is accounted for under the equity method.

•

Avalon Del Rey Apartments, LLC

— In March 2004, the Company entered into an
agreement with an unrelated third-party which provides that, after the Company
completes construction of Avalon Del Rey, the community will be owned and operated by a
joint venture between the Company and the third-party. Avalon Del Rey, if developed as
expected, will be a 309 apartment-home community located in Los
Angeles, California.
Upon construction completion, the third-party venture partner will invest $49,000 and
will be granted a 70% ownership interest in the venture, with the Company retaining a
30% equity interest. The Company will be responsible for the day-to-day operations of
the community and will be the management agent subject to the terms of a management
agreement. Avalon Del Rey Apartments, LLC has a variable rate $50,000 secured
construction loan, of which $32,547 is outstanding as of December 31, 2005 and which
matures in September 2007. In conjunction with the general contractor services that
the Company provides to Avalon Del Rey Apartments, LLC, the Company has provided a
construction completion guarantee to the construction loan lender in order to fulfill
their standard financing requirements related to construction financing. The
obligation of the Company under this guarantee will terminate following construction
completion once all of the lender’s standard completion requirements have been
satisfied, which the Company expects to occur in 2007. The Company consolidates this
community for financial reporting purposes since it holds a 100% equity interest. However, the Company expects this
community to be unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes in periods subsequent to the contribution by the
third-party venture partner.

F-19

•

Juanita Construction, Inc.

— In April 2004, the Company entered into an agreement to
develop Avalon at Juanita Village, a 211 apartment-home community located in Kirkland,
Washington, for which construction was completed in late 2005. Avalon at Juanita
Village was developed through Juanita Construction, Inc., a wholly-owned taxable REIT
subsidiary and, upon completion of certain conditions precedent to closing, will
contribute the community to a joint venture. Upon contribution of the community to the
joint venture, the Company expects to be reimbursed for all costs incurred to develop
the community (approximately $45,300). The third-party joint venture partner will
receive a 100% equity interest in the joint venture and will manage the joint venture.
The Company will receive a residual profits interest and will be engaged to manage the
community for a property management fee. The Company consolidates
this community for financial reporting purposes since it holds a 100% equity interest. However, the Company expects this community to be
unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes after it is contributed to the joint venture.

•

Mission Bay Venture Partners, LLC

— In December 2004, the Company entered into a
joint venture agreement with an unrelated third-party for the development of Avalon at
Mission Bay North II. Avalon at Mission Bay North II, if developed as expected, will
be a 313 apartment-home community located in San Francisco, California. The Company
has contributed $5,902 to this venture and holds a 25% equity interest. The Company
will be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the community and will be the
management agent subject to the terms of a management agreement. Mission Bay Venture
Partners, LLC has a variable rate $94,400 secured construction loan, of which $28,354
is outstanding as of December 31, 2005 and which matures in September 2010, assuming
exercise of two one-year extensions. In conjunction with the general contractor
services that the Company provides to Mission Bay Venture Partners, LLC, the Company
has provided a construction completion guarantee to the construction loan lender in
order to fulfill their standard financing requirements related to construction
financing. Under the terms of the guarantee, in the event of default, the Company would be required to make payment for any excess cost
to complete construction over any undisbursed loan proceeds. The obligation of the Company under this guarantee will terminate following
construction completion once all of the lender’s standard completion requirements have
been satisfied, which the Company expects to occur in 2007. The
Company does not expect there to be any excess cost to complete construction, as the construction of Avalon at Mission
Bay North II is currently on budget, therefore no liability for this
guarantee has been recorded by the Company at December 31, 2005. This community is unconsolidated for financial
reporting purposes and is accounted for under the equity method.

•

AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P., (the “Fund”)

— In March 2005, the Company
admitted outside investors into the Fund, a private, discretionary investment vehicle,
which will acquire and operate communities in the Company’s markets. The Fund will
serve, until March 16, 2008 or until 80% of its committed capital is invested, as the
exclusive vehicle through which the Company will acquire apartments communities,
subject to certain exceptions. The Fund has nine institutional investors, including
the Company, and combined capital commitments of $330,000. A significant portion of
the investments made in the Fund by its investors are being made through AvalonBay
Value Added Fund, Inc., a Maryland corporation that will qualify as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code (the “Fund REIT”). A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is
the general partner of the Fund and has committed $50,000 to the Fund and the Fund
REIT, representing a 15.2% combined general partner and limited partner equity
interest, with $11,581 of this commitment funded as of
December 31, 2005. Under the Fund documents, the Fund has the
ability to employ leverage of up to 65% on a portfolio basis, which,
if achieved, would enable the Fund to invest up to
approximately $940,000. Upon the admittance of the outside investors, the Fund held
four communities, containing a total of 879 apartment homes with an aggregate gross
real estate value of $112,852, that were acquired in 2004. Prior to the admittance of
outside investors, the Fund was directly or indirectly wholly-owned by the Company, and
therefore the revenues and expenses, and assets and liabilities of these four
communities were consolidated in the Company’s results of operations and financial
position. However, upon admittance of the outside investors in March 2005, the Company
deconsolidated the revenue and expenses, and assets and liabilities of these four
communities and accounts for its 15.2% equity interest in the Fund under the equity
method of accounting. Although the Company holds less than a 20% equity interest in the Fund, the Company accounts for the Fund
under the equity method due to its significant influence over the Fund. The Company received net proceeds of $87,948 as reimbursement
for acquiring and warehousing these communities. The Company receives asset management
fees, property management fees and redevelopment fees, as well as a promoted interest
if certain thresholds are met (which were not achieved in 2005).

F-20

In addition, as part of the formation of the Fund, the
Company has provided to one of
the limited partners a guarantee. The guarantee provides that, if, upon final liquidation of the Fund,
the total amount of all distributions to that partner during the life of the Fund
(whether from operating cash flow or property sales) does not equal the total capital
contributions made by that partner, then the Company will pay the partner an amount
equal to the shortfall, but in no event more than 10% of the total capital contributions
made by the partner (maximum of approximately $1,700 as of December 31, 2005). The Company has not recorded a liability related to this guarantee
as of December 31, 2005, as the fair value of the real estate assets owned by the Fund
is considered adequate to cover such payment under a liquidation scenario.

F-21

The following is a combined summary of the financial position of the entities accounted for using
the equity method, as of the dates presented:

12-31-05

12-31-04

Assets:

Real estate, net

$

491,919

$

221,236

Other assets

86,247

86,821

Total assets

$

578,166

$

308,057

Liabilities and partners’ equity:

Mortgage notes payable and credit facility

$

349,260

$

139,500

Other liabilities

27,497

32,579

Partners’ equity

201,409

135,978

Total liabilities and partners’ equity

$

578,166

$

308,057

The following is a combined summary of the operating results of the entities accounted for
using the equity method, for the years presented:

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Rental income

$

37,133

$

21,148

$

20,939

Operating and other expenses

(20,364

)

(8,291

)

(8,038

)

Interest expense, net

(7,585

)

(1,786

)

(1,688

)

Depreciation expense

(8,875

)

(4,003

)

(3,986

)

Net income

$


$

7,068

$

7,227

In March 2005, the Company purchased its joint venture partner’s interest in AvalonBay
Redevelopment, LLC, the limited liability company that owns Avalon on the Sound. Avalon on the
Sound, a 412 apartment-home community located in the New York, New York metropolitan area, was
developed through the joint venture in 2001. The Company purchased the third-party partner’s 75%
equity interest in the joint venture for a gross purchase price (including the impact of the
Company’s share of promoted interest) of $84,521. After consideration of the third-party partner’s
pro rata share of outstanding debt, as well as the Company’s share of promoted interest, the net
purchase price was $57,415. In conjunction with the purchase transaction, the third-party lender
to the limited liability company received a payment of $36,142 in consideration of the outstanding
debt, of which $9,036 was the Company’s share of such payment. Prior to December 31, 2004, the
Company had a repurchase option for Avalon on the Sound and accounted for its investment as a
profit-sharing arrangement as required by SFAS No. 66, “Accounting for Sales of Real Estate.” As a
result, the revenues and expenses, and assets and liabilities of Avalon on the Sound were included
in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for periods prior to December 31, 2004. The
income allocated to the controlling partner is shown as venture partner interest in profit-sharing
on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income for the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. The repurchase option expired in December 2004, and therefore as
of December 31, 2004 and for the three months ended March 31, 2005, the Company accounted for its
25% interest in Avalon on the Sound under the equity method of accounting. Due to the purchase of
the remaining 75% equity interest, this entity is consolidated as of December 31, 2005 and for the
period from April 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005.

F-22

Investments in Unconsolidated Non-Real Estate Entities

At December 31, 2004, the Company held a minority interest investment in one non-real estate
entity, which was a technology investment (Rent.com). Based on ownership and control criteria, the
Company accounted for this investment using the cost method. In February 2005, this technology
investment was acquired by a third-party. As a result of this transaction, the Company received
net proceeds of approximately $6,700 and recognized a gain on the sale of this
investment of $6,252, which is reflected in equity in income of unconsolidated entities on the
accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income for the year ended
December 31, 2005.

The following is a summary of the Company’s equity in income of unconsolidated entities for the
years presented:

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Town Grove, LLC

$

1,286

$


$

1,158

Falkland Partners, LLC

(1)

—

—

24,255

Avalon at Chrystie Place

(339

)

—

—

Town Run Associates




Avalon Terrace, LLC


(28

)

(21

)

Avalon at Mission Bay North II

(57

)

—

—

Avalon Bay Value Added Fund, L.P.

(341

)

—

—

Avalon on the Sound


—

—

Rent.com

6,252


(71

)

Total

$

7,198

$

1,100

$

25,535

(1)

The activity for the year ended December 31, 2003 includes the Company’s share of the GAAP gain reported by
Falkland Partners, LLC as a result of the sale of Falkland Chase in the amount of $21,816 and the liquidation
of the limited liability company’s assets in the amount of $1,632. The sale of Falkland Chase resulted in net proceeds to the Company of $16,729.

7.

Discontinued Operations — Real Estate Assets Sold or Held for Sale

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company sold seven communities, containing a total of
1,305 apartment homes. These communities were sold for a gross sales price of approximately
$351,450, resulting in net proceeds of $344,185 and a GAAP gain of $192,469. Details regarding the
community asset sales are summarized in the following table:

Period

Apartment

Gross sales

Net

Community Name

Location

of sale

homes

Debt

price

proceeds

Avalon at Penasquitos Hills

San Diego, CA

1Q05


$

—

$

34,250

$

33,657

Avalon Sunnyvale

Sunnyvale, CA

1Q05


—

45,000

44,324

Avalon Lake

Danbury, CT

2Q05


—

37,700

36,869

Avalon Crossing

Rockville, MD

3Q05


—

44,500

43,896

Avalon Fremont II

Fremont, CA

3Q05


—

39,500

38,273

Avalon Wildwood

Lynnwood, WA

3Q05


—

44,500

43,047

The Tower at Avalon Cove

Jersey City, NJ

4Q05


—

106,000

103,669

Total of all 2005 asset sales

1,305

$

—

$

351,450

$

344,185

Total of all 2004 asset sales

1,360

$

38,735

$

241,050

$

210,001

Total of all 2003 asset sales

3,184

$

39,665

$

424,650

$

379,789

F-23

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had three communities that
qualified as held for sale
under the provisions of SFAS No. 144. The Company anticipates selling these three communities in the next twelve months. As required under SFAS No. 144, the operations for any
communities sold from January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005 and communities held for sale as of
December 31, 2005 have been presented as discontinued operations in the accompanying Consolidated
Financial Statements. Accordingly, certain reclassifications have been made in prior years to
reflect discontinued operations consistent with current year presentation. The following is a
summary of income from discontinued operations for the years presented:

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Rental income

$

26,867

$

48,018

$

75,981

Operating and other expenses

(8,684

)

(15,646

)

(26,705

)

Interest expense, net

—

(525

)

(2,399

)

Minority interest expense

—

(37

)

(438

)

Depreciation expense

(3,241

)

(10,676

)

(15,071

)

Income from discontinued operations

$

14,942

$

21,134

$

31,368

The Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets include other assets (excluding net real estate) of
$485 and $1,497, and other liabilities of $1,837 and $3,407 as of December 31, 2005 and December
31, 2004, respectively, relating to real estate assets sold or held for sale. The estimated
proceeds less anticipated costs to sell the real estate assets held for sale as of December 31,
2005 are greater than the carrying value as of December 31, 2005, and therefore no provision for
possible loss was recorded.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company decided to relocate one of its regional
offices and as a result sold an office building in Connecticut. This office building, which was
owned through a limited partnership in which the Company is the general partner with majority
ownership, was sold for a purchase price of $7,650, resulting in a GAAP gain of $2,818. In
addition, the Company sold three parcels of land, one located in Dublin, California, one in
Madison, Washington and one in Freehold, New Jersey, for an aggregate gross sales price of $23,620
and an aggregate GAAP gain of $4,479. The Company recorded an impairment loss in the amount of
$3,000 in 2002 related to one of these land parcels to reflect the land at fair value based on its
entitlement status at the time it was determined to be land held for
sale.

8.

Commitments and Contingencies

Employment Agreements and Arrangements

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had employment agreements with four executive officers. The
employment agreements provide for severance payments and generally provide for accelerated vesting
of stock options and restricted stock in the event of a termination of employment (except for a
termination by the Company with cause or a voluntary termination by the employee). The current
terms of these agreements ends on dates that vary between November 2006 and June 2007. The
employment agreements provide for one-year automatic renewals (two years in the case of the Chief
Executive Officer (“CEO”)) after the initial term unless an advance notice of non-renewal is
provided by either party. Upon a notice of non-renewal by the Company, each of the officers may
terminate his employment and receive a severance payment. Upon a change in control, the agreements
provide for an automatic extension of up to three years from the date of the change in control.
The employment agreements provide for base salary and incentive compensation in the form of cash
awards, stock options and stock grants subject to the discretion of, and attainment of performance
goals established by, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

In February 2005, the Company announced certain management changes including the departure of a
senior executive who became entitled to severance benefits in accordance with the terms of his
employment agreement with the Company. The Company entered into an agreement with this executive
regarding his departure that is consistent with the terms of his employment agreement and provides
for a consulting arrangement for up to one year. The Company recorded a charge of approximately
$2,100 in the year ended December 31, 2005 related to cash payments associated with this agreement.
This charge is included in general and administrative expense on the accompanying Consolidated
Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income.

F-24

The Company’s stock incentive plan, as described in Note 10, “Stock-Based Compensation Plans,”
provides that upon an employee’s Retirement (as defined in the plan documents) from the Company,
all outstanding stock options and restricted shares of stock held by the employee will vest, and
the employee will have up to 12 months to exercise any options held upon retirement. Under the
plan, Retirement means a termination of employment, other than for cause, after attainment of age
50, provided that (i) the employee has worked for the Company for at least 10 years, (ii) the
employee’s age at Retirement plus years of employment with the Company equals at least 70, (iii)
the employee provides at least six months written notice of his intent to retire, and (iv) the
employee enters into a one year non-compete and employee non-solicitation agreement.

The Company also has an Officer Severance Program (the “Program”) for the benefit of those officers
of the Company who do not have employment agreements. Under the Program, in the event an officer
who is not otherwise covered by a severance arrangement is terminated (other than for cause) within
two years of a change in control (as defined) of the Company, such officer will generally receive a
cash lump sum payment equal to the sum of such officer’s base salary and cash bonus, as well as
accelerated vesting of stock options and restricted stock. Costs related to the Company’s
employment agreements and the Program are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting
for Contingencies,” and therefore are recognized when considered by management to be probable and
estimable.

Legal Contingencies

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of
business. These matters are frequently covered by insurance. If it has been determined that a
loss is probable to occur, the estimated amount of the loss is expensed in the financial
statements. While the resolution of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, management
believes the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on the financial
position or results of operations of the Company.

The Company is currently involved in construction litigation with a general contractor and a surety
bond provider related to a community that has since completed development. A non-jury trial ended
in April 2004, and in May 2004, the court issued a ruling, finding that these parties were liable
to the Company for consequential damages due to breach of contract and other failures to perform.
The court issued a ruling in October 2004, awarding the Company approximately $1,250 plus interest.
In September 2005, the Company filed an appeal to seek an increase in the damage award and the
general contractor and surety has filed an appeal seeking a reduction. There is no guarantee that
a higher, or any, damage award, will be received by the Company after all appeals are filed and a
final ruling is provided.

The Company is currently involved in a lawsuit regarding the handling of
security deposits in California. The lawsuit alleges that the amounts withheld by the
Company from security deposits at the end of tenancies exceeded the Company’s actual damages. The
Company has agreed with the plaintiff on the terms of a settlement with the purported class. The
settlement terms have been approved by the court, subject to final certification and approval after
administration of the settlement, which is expected in April 2006. During the year ended December
31, 2005, the Company accrued $1,500 related to this and other various litigation matters.

On September 23, 2005, the Equal Rights Center, an advocacy group for the disabled, filed a lawsuit
against the Company alleging that communities constructed by the Company violate the accessibility
requirements of the Fair Housing Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act. The lawsuit seeks
monetary damages as well as injunctive relief, such as modifications to existing assets. Due to
the preliminary nature of the litigation, the Company cannot predict or determine the outcome of
this lawsuit, nor is it reasonably possible to estimate the amount of loss, if any, that would be
associated with an adverse decision.

F-25

Lease Obligations

The Company owns five apartment communities which are located on land subject to land leases
expiring between July 2029 and March 2142. In addition, the Company leases certain office space.
These leases are accounted for as operating leases in accordance with SFAS No. 13, “Accounting for
Leases.” These leases have varying escalation terms, and three
of these leases have purchase options exercisable between 2006 and 2052. The Company incurred costs of $4,486, $4,399 and $3,348 in the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to these leases.

The following table details the future minimum lease payments under the Company’s current operating
leases:

Payments due by period






Thereafter

$3,454

$3,495

$3,420

$2,986

$3,058

$1,168,680

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company executed a purchase option on one of its land leases, for a purchase price of approximately $14,000. Lease payments for this lease totaled $880 for the year
ended December 31, 2005.

9.

Segment Reporting

The Company’s reportable operating segments include Established Communities, Other Stabilized
Communities, and Development/Redevelopment Communities. Annually as of January 1

st

, the
Company determines which of its communities fall into each of these categories and maintains that
classification, unless disposition plans regarding a community change, throughout the year for the
purpose of reporting segment operations.

•

Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities)

are communities where
a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is
meaningful, as these communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating
expenses as of the beginning of the prior year. For the year 2005, the Established
Communities are communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes,  had stabilized occupancy and operating
expenses as of January 1, 2004, are not conducting or planning to conduct substantial
redevelopment activities and are not held for sale or planned for disposition within
the current year. A community is considered to have stabilized occupancy at the
earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of
completion of development or redevelopment.

•

Other Stabilized Communities

includes all other completed communities that have
stabilized occupancy, as defined above. Other Stabilized Communities do not include
communities that are conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment
activities within the current year.

•

Development/Redevelopment Communities

consists of communities that are under
construction and have not received a final certificate of occupancy, communities where
substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current year
and communities under lease-up, that had not reached stabilized occupancy, as defined
above, as of January 1, 2005.

In addition, the Company owns land held for future development and has other corporate assets that
are not allocated to an operating segment.

SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,” requires that
segment disclosures present the measure(s) used by the chief operating decision maker for purposes
of assessing such segments’ performance. The Company’s chief operating decision maker is comprised
of several members of its executive management team who use Net Operating Income (“NOI”) as the
primary financial measure for Established and Other Stabilized Communities. NOI is defined by the
Company as total revenue less direct property operating expenses, including property taxes, and
excludes corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, investments and
investment management, interest income and expense, general and administrative expense, equity in
income of unconsolidated entities, minority interest in consolidated partnerships, venture partner
interest in profit-sharing, depreciation expense, cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle, gain on sale of real estate assets and income from discontinued operations. Although
the Company considers NOI a useful measure of a community’s or communities’ operating performance,
NOI should not be considered an alternative to net income or net cash flow from operating
activities, as determined in accordance with GAAP.

F-26

A reconciliation of NOI to net income for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is as
follows:

For the year ended

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Net income

$

322,378

$

219,745

$

271,525

Corporate-level property management
and other indirect operating expenses

31,243

27,956

27,123

Corporate-level other income

(4,568

)

(1,344

)

(1,520

)

Investments and investment management

4,834

4,690

2,948

Interest expense, net

127,099

131,103

130,178

General and administrative expense

25,761

18,074

14,830

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

(7,198

)

(1,100

)

(25,535

)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

1,481



Venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

1,178

1,688

Depreciation expense

158,822

151,991

138,725

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

(4,547

)

—

Gain on sale of real estate assets

(199,766

)

(122,425

)

(160,990

)

Income from discontinued operations

(14,942

)

(21,134

)

(31,368

)

Net operating income

$

445,144

$

404,337

$

368,554

The primary performance measure for communities under development or redevelopment depends on
the stage of completion. While under development, management monitors actual construction costs
against budgeted costs as well as lease-up pace and rent levels compared to budget.

The table on the following page provides details of the Company’s segment information as of the
dates specified. The segments are classified based on the individual community’s status as of the
beginning of the given calendar year. Therefore, each year the composition of communities within
each business segment is adjusted. Accordingly, the amounts between years are not directly
comparable. The accounting policies applicable to the operating segments described above are the
same as those described in Note 1, “Organization and Significant Accounting Policies.” Segment
information for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 has been adjusted for the
communities that were sold from January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005 as described in Note 7,
“Discontinued Operations — Real Estate Assets Sold or Held for Sale.”

F-27

Total

% NOI change

Gross

revenue

NOI

from prior year

real estate (1)

For the year ended December 31, 2005

Established

Northeast

$

167,636

$

111,734

3.5

%

$

1,062,981

Mid-Atlantic

68,575

48,613

3.9

%

387,801

Midwest

11,113

6,627

7.1

%

91,755

Pacific Northwest

30,080

19,312

8.0

%

315,331

Northern California

146,432

99,769

3.5

%

1,489,363

Southern California

48,800

35,319

6.7

%

331,315

Total Established

472,636

321,374

4.2

%

3,678,546

Other Stabilized

77,552

50,621

n/a

653,399

Development / Redevelopment

116,144

73,149

n/a

1,259,371

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

188,414

Non-allocated (2)

4,348

n/a

n/a

22,066

Total

$

670,680

$

445,144

10.1

%

$

5,801,796

For the year ended December 31, 2004

Established

Northeast

$

135,059

$

89,547

(2.5

%)

$

722,482

Mid-Atlantic

51,390

36,316

(0.2

%)

273,774

Midwest

10,734

6,188

6.8

%

91,121

Pacific Northwest

28,836

17,874

1.1

%

314,717

Northern California

126,196

87,067

(5.9

%)

1,270,848

Southern California

56,124

39,634

1.8

%

401,204

Total Established

408,339

276,626

(1.2

%)

3,074,146

Other Stabilized

111,894

71,744

n/a

1,068,859

Development / Redevelopment

93,096

55,967

n/a

1,074,733

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

156,350

Non-allocated (2)


n/a

n/a

27,401

Total

$

613,844

$

404,337

9.7

%

$

5,401,489

For the year ended December 31, 2003

Established

Northeast

$

136,132

$

89,383

(9.2

%)

$

767,035

Mid-Atlantic

57,014

40,159

(4.5

%)

307,777

Midwest

16,141

8,553

(16.7

%)

140,631

Pacific Northwest

24,410

15,015

(12.1

%)

264,760

Northern California

126,484

89,878

(11.9

%)

1,219,242

Southern California

41,051

28,851

(20.4

%)

290,192

Total Established

401,232

271,839

(11.2

%)

2,989,637

Other Stabilized

77,370

52,152

n/a

706,601

Development / Redevelopment

77,714

44,563

n/a

1,197,218

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

81,358

Non-allocated (2)

1,197

n/a

n/a

23,946

Total

$

557,513

$

368,554

(0.2

%)

$

4,998,760

(1)

Does not include gross real estate assets for discontinued
operations of $101,372, $295,655 and $432,997
as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively.

(2)

Revenue represents third-party management, accounting and developer fees and miscellaneous income
which are not allocated to a reportable segment.

F-28

10.

Stock-Based Compensation Plans

The Company has a stock incentive plan (the “1994 Plan”), which was amended and restated on
December 8, 2004. Individuals who are eligible to participate in the 1994 Plan include officers,
other associates, outside directors and other key persons of the Company and its subsidiaries who
are responsible for or contribute to the management, growth or profitability of the Company and its
subsidiaries. The 1994 Plan authorizes (i) the grant of stock options that qualify as incentive
stock options (“ISOs”) under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, (ii) the grant of stock
options that do not so qualify, (iii) grants of shares of restricted and unrestricted common stock,
(iv) grants of deferred stock awards, (v) performance share awards entitling the recipient to
acquire shares of common stock and (vi) dividend equivalent rights.

Shares of common stock of 2,066,308, 2,311,249 and 2,358,393 were available for future option or
restricted stock grant awards under the 1994 Plan as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. Annually on January 1

st

the maximum number available for issuance under the 1994 Plan is
increased by between 0.48% and 1.00% of the total number of shares of common stock and DownREIT
units actually outstanding on such date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum number of
shares of stock for which ISOs may be issued under the 1994 Plan shall not exceed 2,500,000 and no
awards shall be granted under the 1994 Plan after May 11, 2011. Options and restricted stock
granted under the 1994 Plan vest and expire over varying periods, as determined by the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors.

Before the Merger, Avalon had adopted its 1995 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Avalon 1995 Incentive
Plan”). Under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan, a maximum number of 3,315,054 shares (or 2,546,956
shares as adjusted for the Merger) of common stock were issuable, plus any shares of common stock
represented by awards under Avalon’s 1993 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the “Avalon 1993 Plan”)
that were forfeited, canceled, reacquired by Avalon, satisfied without the issuance of common stock
or otherwise terminated (other than by exercise). Options granted to officers, non-employee
directors and associates under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan generally vested over a three-year
term, expire ten years from the date of grant and are exercisable at the market price on the date
of grant.

In connection with the Merger, the exercise prices and the number of options under the Avalon 1995
Incentive Plan and the Avalon 1993 Plan were adjusted to reflect the equivalent Bay shares and
exercise prices based on the 0.7683 share conversion ratio used in the Merger. Officers,
non-employee directors and associates with Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan or Avalon 1993 Plan options
may exercise their adjusted number of options for the Company’s common stock at the adjusted
exercise price. As of June 4, 1998, the date of the Merger, options and other awards ceased to be
granted under the Avalon 1993 Plan or the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan. Accordingly, there were no
options to purchase shares of common stock available for grant under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan
or the Avalon 1993 Plan at December 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003.

F-29

Information with respect to stock options granted under the 1994 Plan, the Avalon 1995 Incentive
Plan and the Avalon 1993 Plan is as follows:

Weighted

Avalon 1995

Weighted

average

and Avalon

average

1994 Plan

exercise price

1993 Plan

exercise price

shares

per share

shares

per share

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2002

3,166,007

$

39.05

640,506

$

35.27

Exercised

(454,843

)

32.36

(165,264

)

29.39

Granted

425,101

37.14

—

—

Forfeited

(157,000

)

43.45

(1,280

)

34.07

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2003

2,979,265

$

39.57

473,962

$

37.32

Exercised

(1,167,679

)

39.06

(287,700

)

37.05

Granted

545,809

50.71

—

—

Forfeited

(80,577

)

43.98

—

—

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2004

2,276,818

$

42.39

186,262

$

36.23

Exercised

(743,524

)

41.89

(159,638

)

37.82

Granted

725,988

70.09

—

—

Forfeited

(29,504

)

55.66

—

—

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2005

2,229,778

$

51.40

26,624

$

37.09

Options Exercisable:

December 31, 2003

2,069,704

$

38.51

473,962

$

37.32

December 31, 2004

1,366,009

$

39.72

186,262

$

38.15

December 31, 2005

1,158,591

$

42.45

26,624

$

37.09

For options outstanding at December 31, 2005 under the 1994 Plan, 653,310 options had exercise
prices ranging between $31.50 and $39.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.1
years, 425,308 options had exercise prices ranging between $40.00 and $49.99 and a weighted average
remaining contractual life of 5.7 years, 441,408 options had exercise prices between $50.00 and
$59.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.13 years, 705,252 options had
exercise prices ranging between $69.93 and $79.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life
of 9.3 years, and 4,500 options had exercise prices between $80.00 and $86.65 and a weighted
average remaining contractual life of 9.72 years. Options outstanding at December 31, 2005 for the
Avalon 1993 and Avalon 1995 Plans had exercise prices ranging from $28.15 to $37.66 and a weighted
average contractual life of 2 years.

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No.
123 prospectively to all employee awards granted, modified, or settled on or after January 1, 2003.
The effect on net income available to common stockholders and earnings per share if the fair value
based method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested awards in each year based on the fair
market value as determined on the date of grant is reflected in Note 1, “Organization and
Significant Accounting Policies.”

The weighted average fair value of the options granted during 2005 is estimated at $6.40 per share
on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted
average assumptions: dividend yield of 5.5% over the expected life of the option, volatility of
17.56%, risk-free interest rates of 3.91% and an expected life of approximately 7 years. The
weighted average fair value of the options granted during 2004 is estimated at $3.87 per share on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions: dividend yield of 6.05% over the expected life of the option, volatility of 17.28%,
risk-free interest rates of 3.58% and an expected life of approximately 7 years. The weighted
average fair value of the options granted during 2003 is estimated at $1.94 per share on the date
of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: dividend yield of 7.56% over the
expected life of the option, volatility of 18.68%, risk-free interest rates of 3.31% and an
expected life of approximately 7 years. The cost related to stock-based employee compensation for
employee stock options included in the determination of net income is based on actual forfeitures
for the given year.

F-30

In October 1996, the Company adopted the 1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan (as
amended, the “ESPP”). Initially 1,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under
this plan. There are currently 800,142 shares remaining available for issuance under the plan.
Full-time employees of the Company generally are eligible to participate in the ESPP if, as of the
last day of the applicable election period, they have been employed by the Company for at least one
month. All other employees of the Company are eligible to participate provided that as of the
applicable election period they have been employed by the Company for twelve months. Under the
ESPP, eligible employees are permitted to acquire shares of the Company’s common stock through
payroll deductions, subject to maximum purchase limitations. The purchase period is a period of
seven months beginning each April 1 and ending each October 30. The purchase price for common
stock purchased under the plan is 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of the Company’s
common stock on the first day of the applicable purchase period or the last day of the applicable
purchase period. The offering dates, purchase dates and duration of purchase periods may be
changed by the Board of Directors, if the change is announced prior to the beginning of the
affected date or purchase period. The Company issued 13,372 shares, 14,476 shares and 14,393
shares and recognized compensation expense of $134, $109 and $95 under the ESPP for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company accounts for transactions under the
ESPP using the fair value method prescribed under SFAS No. 123, as further discussed in Note 1,
“Organization and Significant Accounting Policies.”

11.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with various financial institutions and may at times
exceed the applicable Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation limit. The Company monitors credit
ratings of these financial institutions and the concentration of cash and cash equivalent balances
with any one financial institution and believes the likelihood of realizing material losses from
the excess of cash and cash equivalent balances over insurance limits is remote.

The following estimated fair values of financial instruments were determined by management using
available market information and established valuation methodologies, including discounted cash
flow. Accordingly, the estimates presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the
Company could realize on disposition of the financial instruments. The use of different market
assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value
amounts.

•

Cash equivalents, rents receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, and other
liabilities are carried at their face amounts, which reasonably approximate their fair
values.

•

Bond indebtedness and notes payable with an aggregate carrying value of approximately
$2,301,000 and $2,350,000 had an estimated aggregate fair value of $2,426,000, and $2,541,000 at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

12.

Related Party Arrangements

Unconsolidated Entities

The Company manages unconsolidated real estate entities for which it
receives asset management,
property management, development and redevelopment fee revenue. From these entities, the Company
received fees of $4,304, $604 and $931 in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
respectively. These fees are included in management, development and other fees on the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income.

In addition, in connection with the general contractor services that the Company provided to CVP I,
LLC, the entity that owns and developed Avalon Chrystie Place I, the Company has funded certain
construction costs on behalf of CVP I, LLC and expects to be reimbursed through draws from escrowed
bond proceeds. As of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the Company has recorded a
receivable from CVP I, LLC in the amounts of $2,365 and $19,983, respectively. The Company
provides similar services to Mission Bay Venture Partners, LLC, the entity that owns and is
developing Avalon at Mission Bay North II. The Company has funded $6,653 in construction costs on
behalf of Mission Bay Venture Partners, LLC as of December 31, 2005 and has recorded a
corresponding receivable from Mission Bay Venture Partners, LLC. The Company expects to be
reimbursed through draws on a construction loan.

F-31

The Company is generally reimbursed for the funding of construction costs by both CVP I, LLC and
Mission Bay Venture Partners, LLC within 30 to 60 days. These receivables are included in prepaid
expenses and other assets on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Director Compensation

The Company’s 1994 Plan provides that directors of the Company who are also employees receive no
additional compensation for their services as a director. On May 14, 2003, the Company’s Board of
Directors approved an amendment to the 1994 Plan pursuant to which, in lieu of the stock and option
awards described above, each non-employee director would receive, following the 2004 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders and each annual meeting thereafter, (i) a number of shares of restricted stock (or
deferred stock awards) having a value of $100 based on the last reported sale price of the common
stock on the NYSE on the fifth business day following the prior year’s annual meeting and (ii) $30
cash, payable in quarterly installments of $7.5. A non-employee director may elect to receive all
or a portion of such cash payment in the form of a deferred stock award. In addition, the Lead
Independent Director receives an annual fee of $30 payable in equal monthly installments of $2.5.
The Company recorded non-employee director compensation expense relating to the restricted stock
grants, deferred stock awards and stock options in the amount of $966, $940 and $824 in the years
ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. Deferred compensation relating to these
restricted stock grants, deferred stock awards and stock options was $579 and $748 on December 31,
2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. In December 31, 2005, one of the Company’s directors
resigned due to a disability. The Company accelerated the vesting of all outstanding equity awards
at that date.

13.

Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

The following summary represents the quarterly results of operations for the years ended December
31, 2005 and 2004:

For the three months ended

3-31-05

6-30-05

9-30-05

12-31-05

Total revenue

$

161,245

$

165,586

$

170,751

$

173,098

Income from continuing operations

$

27,861

$

25,360

$

26,885

$

27,564

Income from discontinued operations

$

41,749

$

31,551

$

72,243

$

69,165

Net income available to common stockholders

$

67,435

$

54,736

$

96,953

$

94,554

Net income per common share — basic

$

0.93

$

0.75

$

1.32

$

1.29

Net income per common share — diluted

$

0.92

$

0.74

$

1.30

$

1.26

For the three months ended

3-31-04

6-30-04

9-30-04

12-31-04

Total revenue

$

146,262

$

151,393

$

156,496

$

159,693

Income from continuing operations

$

15,169

$

17,494

$

17,374

$

21,602

Income from discontinued operations

$

5,561

$

17,539

$

27,992

$

92,467

Net income available to common stockholders

$

23,102

$

32,858

$

43,191

$

111,894

Net income per common share — basic

$

0.33

$

0.46

$

0.60

$

1.55

Net income per common share — diluted

$

0.32

$

0.46

$

0.60

$

1.52

14.

Subsequent Events

In January 2006, the Company sold two communities to unrelated third parties.
Avalon Estates, a garden-style community
located in Boston, Massachusetts, containing 162 apartment homes, was sold for a sales price of
$34,550. Avalon Cupertino, a garden-style community located in San
Jose, California, containing 311 apartment
homes, was sold for a sales price of $88,000. The disposition of these two communities resulted
in an aggregate GAAP gain of approximately $66,000. These two communities were classified as held
for sale under the provisions of SFAS No. 144 as of December 31, 2005 (see Note 7, “Discontinued
Operations — Real Estate Assets Sold or Held for Sale”).

F-32

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion /

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

Acquisition

Current Communities

Avalon at Center Place

$

—

$

26,816

$

1,654

$

—

$

28,470

$

28,470

$

8,455

$

20,015

$

—

1991/1997

Avalon at Crane Brook

12,381

41,843


12,381

41,930

54,311

2,008

52,303

—


Avalon at Faxon Park

1,136

14,019


1,136

14,385

15,521

4,026

11,495

—


Avalon at Flanders Hill

3,572

33,504


3,572

33,607

37,179

3,974

33,205

21,935


Avalon at Lexington

2,124

12,599

1,110

2,124

13,709

15,833

5,323

10,510

12,834


Avalon at Newton Highlands

11,038

45,279


11,038

45,590

56,628

3,724

52,904

38,905


Avalon at Prudential Center

25,811

104,399

26,291

25,811

130,690

156,501

30,813

125,688

—

1968/1998

Avalon at Steven’s Pond

10,704

43,431


10,704

43,602

54,306

3,429

50,877

—


Avalon at The Pinehills I

3,623

16,233


3,623

16,270

19,893


19,120

—


Avalon Essex

5,230

15,483

1,040

5,230

16,523

21,753

3,465

18,288

—


Avalon Estates

1,972

18,167


1,972

18,386

20,358

2,952

17,406

—


Avalon Ledges

2,627

32,900


2,627

33,644

36,271

4,270

32,001

19,290


Avalon Oaks

2,129

18,640


2,129

19,075

21,204

4,672

16,532

17,324


Avalon Oaks West

3,303

13,316


3,303

13,544

16,847

1,930

14,917

17,145


Avalon Orchards

2,975

18,037


2,975

18,101

21,076

2,464

18,612

20,136


Avalon Summit

1,743

14,654


1,743

15,232

16,975

5,165

11,810

—

1986/1996

Avalon West


9,881



10,349

11,292

3,309

7,983

8,259


Essex Place

4,643

19,003


4,643

19,085

23,728


22,848

—


Avalon at Greyrock Place

13,819

55,846


13,819

56,522

70,341

6,942

63,399

—


Avalon Corners

6,305

24,179

1,373

6,305

25,552

31,857

5,133

26,724

—


Avalon Danbury

4,905

30,385


4,905

30,386

35,291


34,800

—


Avalon Darien

6,922

34,543


6,922

34,591

41,513

2,613

38,900

—


Avalon Gates

4,414

31,305

1,222

4,414

32,527

36,941

9,617

27,324

—


Avalon Glen

5,956

23,993

2,064

5,956

26,057

32,013

10,454

21,559

—


Avalon Haven

1,264

11,762


1,264

12,670

13,934

2,568

11,366

—


Avalon Milford I

8,746

22,675

—

8,746

22,675

31,421

1,094

30,327

—


Avalon New Canaan

4,835

19,484

—

4,835

19,484

24,319

2,456

21,863

—


Avalon on Stamford Harbor

10,836

51,620


10,836

52,022

62,858

6,426

56,432

—


Avalon Orange

2,108

19,823

—

2,108

19,823

21,931


21,383

—


Avalon Springs

2,116

14,512


2,116

15,021

17,137

4,573

12,564

—


Avalon Valley

2,277

22,424

1,492

2,277

23,916

26,193

5,689

20,504

—


Avalon Walk I & II

9,102

48,796

1,474

9,102

50,270

59,372

19,643

39,729

—

1992/1994

Avalon at Glen Cove South

7,871

59,704

—

7,871

59,704

67,575

3,013

64,562

—


Avalon Commons

4,679

28,552


4,679

28,923

33,602

8,467

25,135

—


Avalon Court

9,228

48,920

1,537

9,228

50,457

59,685

12,371

47,314

—

1997/2000

Avalon Pines I

6,178

44,133


6,178

44,134

50,312

1,202

49,110

—


Avalon Towers

3,118

12,709

5,357

3,118

18,066

21,184

5,391

15,793

—

1990/1995

Avalon at Edgewater

14,529

60,061


14,529

60,398

74,927

8,988

65,939

—


Avalon at Florham Park

6,647

34,639


6,647

35,096

41,743

6,554

35,189

—


Avalon Cove

8,760

82,356

1,448

8,760

83,804

92,564

25,415

67,149

—


Avalon at Freehold

4,116

30,191


4,116

30,410

34,526

4,415

30,111

—


Avalon Run East

1,579

14,669


1,579

14,779

16,358

4,744

11,614

—


F - 33

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion /

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

Acquisition

Avalon Run East II

6,765

45,319

—

6,765

45,319

52,084

1,798

50,286

—


Avalon Watch

5,585

22,394

2,158

5,585

24,552

30,137

10,394

19,743

—


Avalon Gardens

8,428

45,706


8,428

46,389

54,817

13,003

41,814

—


Avalon Green

1,820

10,525


1,820

11,006

12,826

3,966

8,860

—


Avalon on the Sound

—

116,128


—

116,359

116,359

14,855

101,504

—


Avalon Riverview I

—

94,246


—

94,442

94,442

11,170

83,272

—


Avalon View

3,529

14,140

1,430

3,529

15,570

19,099

6,217

12,882

16,465


Avalon Willow

6,207

39,852

1,335

6,207

41,187

47,394

8,904

38,490

—


The Avalon

2,889

28,273


2,889

28,446

31,335

6,469

24,866

—


Avalon at Fairway Hills I & II

4,147

16,600

1,642

4,147

18,242

22,389

6,797

15,592

11,500

1987/1996

Avalon at Fairway Hills III

4,465

17,864

5,908

4,465

23,772

28,237

6,360

21,877

—

1987/1996

Avalon at Symphony Glen

1,594

6,384

1,330

1,594

7,714

9,308

3,526

5,782

9,780


Avalon Landing

1,849

7,409


1,849

8,179

10,028

3,120

6,908

6,044

1984/1995

AutumnWoods

6,096

24,400


6,096

25,122

31,218

7,990

23,228

—

1989/1996

Avalon at Arlington Square

22,041

90,253


22,041

90,503

112,544

13,855

98,689

—


Avalon at Ballston -
Washington Towers

7,291

29,177

1,482

7,291

30,659

37,950

12,169

25,781

—


Avalon at Cameron Court

10,292

32,931


10,292

33,153

43,445

9,323

34,122

—


Avalon at Decoverly

6,157

24,800

1,079

6,157

25,879

32,036

9,207

22,829

—

1991/1995

Avalon at Foxhall

6,848

27,614

9,598

6,848

37,212

44,060

12,304

31,756

—


Avalon at Gallery Place I

9,084

39,378


9,084

39,732

48,816

3,657

45,159

—


Avalon at Grosvenor Station

24,751

56,291


24,751

56,702

81,453

3,916

77,537

—


Avalon at Providence Park

2,152

8,907


2,152

9,369

11,521

2,856

8,665

—

1988/1997

Avalon at Rock Spring

—

45,834


—

46,035

46,035

4,837

41,198

—


Avalon at Traville

14,360

55,531

—

14,360

55,531

69,891

3,504

66,387

—


Avalon Crescent

13,851

43,401


13,851

43,720

57,571

13,216

44,355

—


Avalon Fields I & II

4,047

18,553


4,047

18,703

22,750

6,089

16,661

10,705


Avalon Knoll

1,528

6,136

1,535

1,528

7,671

9,199

3,442

5,757

12,239


200 Arlington Place

9,728

39,527


9,728

40,432

50,160

7,243

42,917

—

1987/2000

Avalon at Danada Farms

7,535

30,444


7,535

31,021

38,556

8,640

29,916

—


Avalon at Stratford Green

4,326

17,569


4,326

17,837

22,163

4,904

17,259

—


Avalon at West Grove

5,149

20,657

5,229

5,149

25,886

31,035

7,280

23,755

—


Avalon at Bear Creek

6,786

27,035


6,786

27,980

34,766

7,344

27,422

—


Avalon Bellevue

6,664

23,908


6,664

24,198

30,862

4,359

26,503

—


Avalon Belltown

5,644

12,453


5,644

12,779

18,423

2,063

16,360

—


Avalon Brandemoor

8,630

36,679


8,630

36,954

45,584

6,224

39,360

—


Avalon HighGrove

7,569

32,035


7,569

32,207

39,776

5,830

33,946

—


Avalon Juanita Village

10,052

34,025

—

10,052

34,025

44,077


43,604

—

#N/A

Avalon ParcSquare

3,789

15,093


3,789

15,455

19,244

3,062

16,182

—


Avalon Redmond Place

4,558

17,504

4,105

4,558

21,609

26,167

6,451

19,716

—

1991/1997

Avalon RockMeadow

4,777

19,671


4,777

19,935

24,712

3,932

20,780

—


Avalon WildReed

4,253

18,676


4,253

18,810

23,063

3,663

19,400

—


Avalon Wynhaven

11,412

41,142


11,412

41,322

52,734

6,969

45,765

—


Avalon at Union Square

4,249

16,820

1,444

4,249

18,264

22,513

4,946

17,567

—

1973/1996

Avalon at Willow Creek

6,581

26,583

2,450

6,581

29,033

35,614

7,768

27,846

—

1985/1994

F - 34

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

/ Acquisition

Avalon Dublin

5,276

19,642

2,470

5,276

22,112

27,388

5,766

21,622

—

1989/1997

Avalon Fremont I

10,746

43,399

1,761

10,746

45,160

55,906

12,062

43,844

—

1991/1992

Avalon Pleasanton

11,610

46,552

3,232

11,610

49,784

61,394

13,687

47,707

—

1988/1994

Waterford

11,324

45,717

3,851

11,324

49,568

60,892

13,697

47,195

33,100

1985/1986

Avalon at Cedar Ridge

4,230

9,659

12,247

4,230

21,906

26,136

6,021

20,115

—

1972/1997

Avalon at Diamond Heights

4,726

19,130

1,263

4,726

20,393

25,119

5,501

19,618

—

1972/1994

Avalon at Mission Bay North

13,814

78,832

—

13,814

78,832

92,646

7,705

84,941

—


Avalon at Nob Hill

5,403

21,567

1,086

5,403

22,653

28,056

5,927

22,129

20,800

1990/1995

Avalon Foster City

7,852

31,445

4,041

7,852

35,486

43,338

9,105

34,233

—

1973/1994

Avalon Pacifica

6,125

24,796


6,125

25,758

31,883

6,816

25,067

17,600

1971/1995

Avalon Sunset Towers

3,561

21,321

3,849

3,561

25,170

28,731

7,271

21,460

—

1961/1996

Avalon Towers by the Bay

9,155

57,630


9,155

57,847

67,002

12,619

54,383

—


Crowne Ridge

5,982

16,885

9,841

5,982

26,726

32,708

7,139

25,569

—

1973/1996

Avalon at Blossom Hill

11,933

48,313

1,505

11,933

49,818

61,751

13,191

48,560

—


Avalon at Cahill Park

4,760

47,354


4,760

47,765

52,525

5,823

46,702

—


Avalon at Creekside

6,546

26,301

10,445

6,546

36,746

43,292

9,186

34,106

—

1962/1997

Avalon at Foxchase I & II

11,340

45,532

3,427

11,340

48,959

60,299

13,355

46,944

26,400

1988/1987

Avalon at Parkside

7,406

29,823


7,406

30,636

38,042

8,167

29,875

—

1991/1996

Avalon at Pruneyard

3,414

15,469

13,071

3,414

28,540

31,954

7,949

24,005

—

1968/1997

Avalon at River Oaks

8,904

35,126


8,904

36,085

44,989

9,435

35,554

—

1990/1996

Avalon Campbell

11,830

47,828


11,830

48,253

60,083

12,736

47,347

38,800


Avalon Cupertino

9,099

39,926


9,099

40,058

49,157

10,997

38,160

—


Avalon Mountain View

9,755

39,393

2,041

9,755

41,434

51,189

11,099

40,090

18,300


Avalon on the Alameda

6,119

50,164


6,119

50,362

56,481

12,233

44,248

—


Avalon Rosewalk

15,814

62,028


15,814

62,764

78,578

16,065

62,513

—

1997/1999

Avalon Silicon Valley

20,713

99,573

1,535

20,713

101,108

121,821

26,468

95,353

—


Avalon Towers on the Peninsula

9,560

56,021


9,560

56,190

65,750

7,600

58,150

—


CountryBrook

9,384

34,958

4,314

9,384

39,272

48,656

10,466

38,190

16,586

1985/1996

San Marino

6,607

26,673

1,348

6,607

28,021

34,628

7,550

27,078

—

1984/1988

Avalon at Media Center

22,483

28,104

25,486

22,483

53,590

76,073

13,485

62,588

—

1961/1997

Avalon at Warner Center

7,045

12,986

6,712

7,045

19,698

26,743

6,113

20,630

—

1979/1998

Avalon Glendale

—

39,920


—

40,233

40,233

3,265

36,968

—


Avalon Woodland Hills

23,828

40,372

7,872

23,828

48,244

72,072

14,520

57,552

—

1989/1997

The Promenade

14,052

56,820


14,052

56,951

71,003

6,978

64,025

32,100

1988/2002

Avalon at Pacific Bay

4,871

19,745

7,508

4,871

27,253

32,124

7,270

24,854

—

1971/1997

Avalon at South Coast

4,709

16,063

4,475

4,709

20,538

25,247

5,756

19,491

—

1973/1996

Avalon Mission Viejo

2,517

9,257

1,843

2,517

11,100

13,617

3,061

10,556

7,635

1984/1996

Avalon Newport

1,975

3,814

4,564

1,975

8,378

10,353

2,236

8,117

—

1956/1996

Avalon Santa Margarita

4,607

16,911

2,627

4,607

19,538

24,145

5,349

18,796

—

1990/1997

Avalon at Cortez Hill

2,768

20,134

11,629

2,768

31,763

34,531

8,207

26,324

—

1973/1998

Avalon at Mission Bay

9,922

40,633

15,639

9,922

56,272

66,194

14,354

51,840

—

1969/1997

Avalon at Mission Ridge

2,710

10,924

8,654

2,710

19,578

22,288

5,296

16,992

—

1960/1997

$

888,217

$

4,180,092

$

288,844

$

888,217

$

4,468,936

$

5,357,153

$

936,060

$

4,421,093

$

433,882

F - 35

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

/ Acquisition

Development Communities

Avalon at Bedford Center

$

1,792

$

22,339

$

—

$

1,792

$

22,339

$

24,131

$


$

24,086

$

—

NA

Avalon at Decoverly II

—

12,225

—

—

12,225

12,225

—

12,225

—

NA

Avalon at Glen Cove North

—

4,684

—

—

4,684

4,684

—

4,684

—

NA

Avalon Lyndhurst

—

31,261

—

—

31,261

31,261

—

31,261

—

NA

Avalon Wilshire

—

17,587

—

—

17,587

17,587

—

17,587

—

NA

Avalon Camarillo

—

34,330

—

—

34,330

34,330

—

34,330

—

NA

Avalon Chestnut Hill

—

27,767

—

—

27,767

27,767

—

27,767

—

NA

Avalon Chrystie Place II

—

30,067

—

—

30,067

30,067

—

30,067

—

NA

Avalon Danvers

—

8,896

—

—

8,896

8,896

—

8,896

—

NA

Avalon Del Rey

—

56,570

—

—

56,570

56,570

—

56,570

32,547

NA

Avalon Pines II

—

18,709

—

—

18,709

18,709

—

18,709

—

NA

Avalon Shrewsbury

—

9,266

—

—

9,266

9,266

—

9,266

—

NA

Avalon Woburn

—

6,104

—

—

6,104

6,104

—

6,104

—

NA

$

1,792

$

279,805

$

—

$

1,792

$

279,805

$

281,597

$


$

281,552

$

32,547

Land held for development

188,414

—

—

188,414

—

188,414

—

188,414

24,153

Corporate Overhead

1,565

11,761

62,678

1,565

74,439

76,004

21,275

54,729

1,875,982

$

1,079,988

$

4,471,658

$

351,522

$

1,079,988

$

4,823,180

$

5,903,168

$

957,380

$

4,945,788

$

2,366,564

F - 36

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2005

(Dollars in thousands)

Amounts include real estate assets held for sale.

Depreciation of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. building, improvements, upgrades and furniture, fixtures and equipment (FF&E) is calculated over the following useful lives,
on a straight line basis:

Building — 30 years

Improvements, upgrades and FF&E — not to exceed 7 years

The aggregate cost of total real estate for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $5,903,000 at December 31, 2005.

The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Balance, beginning of period

$

5,697,144

$

5,431,757

$

5,369,453

Acquisitions, construction costs and improvements

528,118

520,643

369,818

Dispositions, including impairment loss on planned dispositions

(322,094

)

(255,256

)

(307,514

)

Balance, end of period

$

5,903,168

$

5,697,144

$

5,431,757

The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, are as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Balance, beginning of period

$

819,319

$

695,368

$

584,022

Depreciation, including discontinued operations

162,063

162,667

153,796

Dispositions

(24,002

)

(38,716

)

(42,450

)

Balance, end of period

$

957,380

$

819,319

$

695,368

F-37