10-K


w30545e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006

Commission file number 1-12672

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Maryland

77-0404318

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization)

Identification No.)

2900 Eisenhower Avenue, Suite 300

Alexandria, Virginia 22314

(Address of principal executive office)

(703) 329-6300

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange

8.70% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,

New York Stock Exchange

par value $.01 per share

(Title of each class)

(Name of each exchange on which registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding twelve (12) months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Exchange registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, or a non-accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

o

No

x

The aggregate market value of the Registrant’s Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant, as of June 30, 2006 was $8,231,895,376.

The number of shares of the registrant’s Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, outstanding as of
January 31, 2007 was 79,344,557.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions
of AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s Proxy Statement for the 2007 annual meeting of
stockholders, a definitive copy of which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the year
end of the year covered by this Form 10-K, are incorporated by reference herein as portions of Part
III of this Form 10-K.


PAGE

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS


ITEM 1a.

RISK FACTORS


ITEM 1b.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS


ITEM 2.

COMMUNITIES


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS


ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


ITEM 7a.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
MARKET RISK


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE


ITEM 9a.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES


ITEM 9b.

OTHER INFORMATION


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE


ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS


ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE


ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


SIGNATURES


PART I

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our actual results
could differ materially from those set forth in each forward-looking statement. Certain factors
that might cause such a difference are discussed in this report, including in the section entitled
“Forward-Looking Statements” on page 65 of this Form 10-K. You should also review Item 1a., “Risk
Factors,” for a discussion of various risks that could adversely affect us.

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

General

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the “Company,” which term, unless the context otherwise requires,
refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries) is a Maryland corporation
that has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax
purposes. We engage in the development, redevelopment, acquisition, ownership and operation of
multifamily communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. These
barriers-to-entry generally include a difficult and lengthy entitlement process with local
jurisdictions and dense urban or suburban areas where zoned and entitled land is in limited supply.
Our markets are located in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern
and Southern California regions of the United States. We focus on these markets because we believe
that, long term, the limited new supply of apartment homes and lower housing affordability in these
markets will result in larger increases in cash flows relative to other markets. In addition to
increasing the rental revenues of our operating assets, we believe these market attributes will
increase the value of our operating assets and enable us to create additional value through the
development and selective acquisition of multifamily housing.

At January 31, 2007, we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in:

•

151 operating apartment communities containing 43,533 apartment homes in ten states
and the District of Columbia, of which six communities containing 2,381 apartment homes
were under reconstruction;

•

17 communities under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 5,153
apartment homes when completed; and

•

rights to develop an additional 54 communities that, if developed in the manner
expected, will contain an estimated 14,185 apartment homes.

We generally obtain ownership in an apartment community by developing a new community on vacant
land or by acquiring and either repositioning or redeveloping an existing community. In selecting
sites for development, redevelopment or acquisition, we favor locations that are near expanding
employment centers and convenient to transportation, recreation areas, entertainment, shopping and dining.

Our real estate investments consist of the following reportable segments: Established Communities,
Other Stabilized Communities and Development/Redevelopment Communities. Established Communities
are generally operating communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes and that
were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior
year. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other operating communities that have
stabilized occupancy and operating expenses during the current year, but that had not achieved
stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year. Development/ Redevelopment Communities
consist of communities that are under construction, communities where substantial redevelopment is
in progress or is planned to begin during the current year and communities under lease-up. A more
detailed description of these segments and other related information can be found in Note 9,
“Segment Reporting,” of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.

Our principal financial goal is to increase long-term stockholder value by successfully and
cost-effectively developing, redeveloping, acquiring, owning and operating high-quality communities
in our selected markets that contain features and amenities desired by residents, as well as by
providing our residents with efficient and effective service.


To help fulfill this goal, we
regularly (i) monitor our investment allocation by geographic market and product type, (ii)
develop, redevelop and acquire apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets with growing
or high potential for demand and high for-sale housing costs, (iii) selectively sell apartment
communities that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when opportunities are presented to
realize a portion of the value created through our investment and redeploy the proceeds from those
sales, and (iv) endeavor to maintain a capital structure that is aligned with our business risks
such
that we maintain continuous access to cost-effective capital. Our long-term strategy is to more
deeply penetrate the high barrier-to-entry markets in our chosen regions with a broad range of
products and services and an intense focus on our customer. A substantial majority of our current
communities are upscale, which generally command among the highest rents in their markets.
However, we also pursue the ownership and operation of apartment communities that target a variety
of customer segments and price points, consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of
products and services.

During the three years ended December 31, 2006, we acquired two apartment communities whose
financial results are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, disposed of 16 apartment
communities, and completed the development of 20 apartment communities and the redevelopment of six
apartment communities. In anticipation of continued improvement in apartment fundamentals and to
help position us for future growth, we increased our construction volume during 2006 (as measured
by total projected capitalized cost at completion) and continued to secure new development
opportunities, including the acquisition of land for future development. We also increased our
investments in apartment communities through an institutional discretionary investment fund,
AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P. (the “Fund”), which we manage and in which we own approximately a
15% interest. The Fund acquired communities that we believe we can redevelop or reposition, or
take advantage of market cycle timing and improved operating performance, to create value. Since
its inception in March 2005, the Fund has acquired 13 communities. A more detailed description of
the Fund and its investment activity can be found in Financing Activities and Note 6, “Investments
in Unconsolidated Entities” of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. As
a result of strong capital flows to the industry, we also continued to dispose of assets at prices
that enabled significant realized gains on cost.

In 2007, we expect additional new development activity to be in the range of $1,000,000,000 to
$1,300,000,000, and we expect the Fund will continue to selectively acquire additional communities.
We also anticipate asset sales, dependent on strategic and value realization opportunities. The
level of development, acquisition and disposition activity, however, is heavily influenced by
capital market conditions, including prevailing interest rates. A further discussion of our
development, redevelopment, disposition, acquisition, property management and related strategies
follows.

Development Strategy.

We select land for development and follow established procedures that we
believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. As one of the largest developers of
multifamily apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States, we
identify development opportunities through local market presence and access to local market
information achieved through our regional offices. In addition to our principal executive office
in Alexandria, Virginia, we also maintain regional offices and administrative or specialty offices
in or near the following cities:

After selecting a target site, we usually negotiate for the right to acquire the site either
through an option or a long-term conditional contract. Options and long-term conditional contracts
generally enable us to acquire the target site shortly before the start of construction, which
reduces development-related risks and preserves capital. However, we will acquire and hold land
when business conditions warrant. Due to increased competition for land based on current market
conditions, we have, at times, acquired land earlier in the development cycle or acquired land
zoned for uses other than residential with the potential for rezoning. After we acquire land, we
generally shift our focus to construction. Except for certain mid-rise and high-rise apartment
communities where we may elect to use third-party general contractors or construction managers, we
act as our own general contractor and construction manager.


We generally perform these functions
directly (although we may use a wholly-owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and for the joint
ventures and partnerships of which we are a member or a partner. We believe this enables us to
achieve higher construction quality, greater control over construction schedules and significant
cost savings. Our development, property management and construction teams monitor construction
progress to ensure high-quality workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the leasing and
operating phase.

As competition for desirable development opportunities has increased in recent years, we will in
some cases be engaged in more complicated development pursuits. For example, at times we have
acquired and may in the future acquire existing commercial buildings with the intent to pursue
rezoning, tenant terminations or expirations and demolition of the existing structures. Generally,
during the period that we hold these buildings for future
development, the net revenue from these
operations, which we consider to be incidental, is accounted for as
a reduction in our investment in the development pursuit and not as net income. We have also
participated, and may in the future participate, in master planned or other large multi-use
developments where we commit to build infrastructure (such as roads) to be used by other
participants or commit to act as construction manager or general contractor in building structures
or spaces for third parties (such as municipal garages or parks). Costs we incur in connection
with these activities may be accounted for as additional invested capital in the community or we
may earn fee income for providing these services. Particularly with large scale, urban in-fill
developments, we may engage in significant environmental remediation efforts to prepare a site for
construction.

Throughout this report, the term “development” is used to refer to the entire property development
cycle, including pursuit of zoning approvals, procurement of architectural and engineering designs
and the construction process. References to “construction” refer to the actual construction of the
property, which is only one element of the development cycle.

Redevelopment Strategy

. When we undertake the redevelopment of a community, our goal is to
renovate and/or rebuild an existing community so that our total investment is generally below
replacement cost and the community is well positioned in the market to achieve attractive returns
on our capital. We have established procedures to minimize both the cost and risks of
redevelopment. Our redevelopment teams, which include key redevelopment, construction and property
management personnel, monitor redevelopment progress. We believe we achieve significant cost
savings by acting as our own general contractor. More importantly, this helps to ensure
high-quality design and workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the lease-up and
restabilization phase.

Throughout this report, the term “redevelopment” is used to refer to the entire redevelopment
cycle, including planning and procurement of architectural and engineering designs, budgeting and
actual renovation work. The actual renovation work is referred to as “reconstruction,” which is
only one element of the redevelopment cycle.

Disposition Strategy.

We sell assets when market conditions are favorable and redeploy the
proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and acquire communities and to rebalance our
portfolio across geographic regions. This also allows us to realize a portion of the value created
through our investments, and provides additional liquidity. We are then able to redeploy the net
proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising that amount of capital externally by issuing debt
or equity securities. When we decide to sell a community, we generally solicit competing bids from
unrelated parties for these individual assets and consider the sales price of each proposal.

Acquisition Strategy.

Our core competencies in development and redevelopment discussed above allow
us to be selective in the acquisitions we target. Acquisitions allow us to achieve rapid
penetration into markets in which we desire an increased presence. Acquisitions (and dispositions)
also help us achieve our desired product mix or rebalance our portfolio. In 2005 we formed the
Fund, which during its investment period (ending no later than March 2008) will be the principal
vehicle for us to acquire additional investments in apartment communities, subject to certain
exceptions. Through the Fund’s investment period (or until fully invested), we expect to continue
our acquisition activity through the Fund, focusing in particular on communities in our markets
that can benefit from redevelopment, repositioning or market cycle opportunities.

Property Management Strategy

. We intend to increase operating income through innovative, proactive
property management that will result in higher revenue from communities and controlled operating
expenses.


Our principal strategies to maximize revenue include:

•

strong focus on resident satisfaction;

•

staggering lease terms such that lease expirations are better matched to traffic patterns;

•

balancing high occupancy with premium pricing, and increasing rents as market
conditions permit; and

•

managing community occupancy for optimal rental revenue levels.

Controlling operating expenses is another way in which we intend to increase earnings growth.
Growth in our portfolio and the resulting increase in revenue allows for fixed operating costs to
be spread over a larger volume of revenue,
thereby increasing operating margins. We control operating expenses in a variety of ways, which
include the following, among others:

On-site property management teams receive bonuses based largely upon the net operating income
produced at their respective communities. We use and continuously seek ways to improve technology
applications to help manage our communities, believing that the accurate collection of financial
and resident data will enable us to maximize revenue and control costs through careful leasing
decisions, maintenance decisions and financial management.

We generally manage the operation and leasing activity of our communities directly (although we may
use a wholly-owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and the joint ventures and partnerships of which
we are a member or a partner.

From time to time, we also pursue or arrange ancillary services for our residents to provide
additional revenue sources or increase resident satisfaction. In general, as a REIT we cannot
directly provide services to our tenants that are not customarily provided by a landlord, nor can
we share in the income of a third party that provides such services. However, we can provide such
non-customary services to residents or share in the revenue from such services if we do so through
a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” which is a subsidiary that is treated as a “C corporation” and is
therefore subject to federal income taxes.

Financing Strategy.

We have consistently maintained, and intend to continue to maintain, a capital
structure that is aligned to the business risks presented by our corporate strategy. For the year
ended December 31, 2006, our fixed charge ratio on an incurred
and expensed basis was 1.90 and 2.68, respectively.
We believe that fixed charge coverage is an important measure of balance sheet strength, as it
measures our ability to service fixed payment obligations from operating cash flow. At December
31, 2006, our debt-to-total market capitalization was 22.3%, and our long-term floating rate debt
was 3.4% of total market capitalization. Total market capitalization reflects the aggregate of the
market value of our common stock, the market value of our operating partnership units outstanding
(based on the market value of our common stock), the liquidation preference of our preferred stock
and the outstanding principal amount of our debt. We believe that debt-to-total market
capitalization can be one useful measure of a real estate operating company’s long-term liquidity
and balance sheet strength, because it shows an approximate relationship between a company’s total
debt and the current total market value of its assets based on the current price at which the
company’s common stock trades. However, because debt-to-total market capitalization changes with
fluctuations in our stock price, which occur regularly, our debt-to-total market capitalization may
change even when our earnings and debt levels remain stable.


We estimate that a portion of our short-term liquidity needs will be met from retained operating
cash and borrowings under our variable rate unsecured credit facility. If required to meet the
balance of our current or anticipated liquidity needs, we will attempt to arrange additional
capacity under our existing unsecured credit facility, sell existing communities or land and/or
issue additional debt or equity securities. A determination to engage in an equity or debt
offering depends on a variety of factors such as general market and economic conditions, including
interest rates, our short and long term liquidity needs, the adequacy of our expected liquidity
sources, the relative costs of debt and equity capital, and growth opportunities. A summary of
debt and equity activity for the last three years is reflected on our Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.

We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including
limited liability companies) or partnerships through which we would own an indirect economic
interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint venture or
partnership. Our decision whether to hold an apartment community in fee simple or to have an
indirect interest in the community through a joint venture or partnership is based on a variety of
factors and considerations, including: (i) the economic and tax terms required by a seller of land
or of a community, who may prefer that (or who may require less payment if) the land or community
is contributed to a joint venture or partnership; (ii) our desire to diversify our portfolio of
communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii) our desire at times to preserve our
capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength; and (iv) our projection, in some
circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested capital or reduce our risk if a
joint venture or partnership vehicle is used. Investments in joint ventures or partnerships are
not limited to a specified percentage of our assets. Each joint venture or partnership agreement
is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole
discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture or
partnership agreement.

We have invested in the Fund, a private, discretionary investment vehicle that acquires and
operates apartment communities in our markets. The Fund will serve, until March 16, 2008 or until
80% of its committed capital is invested, as the principal vehicle through which we will invest in
the acquisition of apartment communities, subject to certain exceptions. These exceptions include
significant individual asset and portfolio acquisitions, properties acquired in tax-deferred
transactions and acquisitions that are inadvisable or inappropriate for the Fund. The Fund will
not restrict our development activities, and will terminate after a term of eight years, subject to
two one-year extensions. The Fund has nine institutional investors, including us, with a combined
equity capital commitment of $330,000,000. A significant portion of the investments made in the
Fund by its investors are being made through AvalonBay Value Added Fund, Inc., a Maryland
corporation that qualifies as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the “Fund REIT”). A
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is the general partner of the Fund and has committed
$50,000,000 to the Fund and the Fund REIT (of which approximately $22,944,000 has been invested as
of January 31, 2007) representing a 15.2% combined general partner and limited partner equity
interest. Under the Fund documents, the Fund has the ability to employ leverage through debt
financings up to 65% on a portfolio basis, which, if achieved, would enable the Fund to invest up
to $940,000,000. We currently expect that leverage of less than 65% will be employed, reducing the
projected investment value to between $850,000,000 and $900,000,000 (of which approximately
$514,000,000 has been invested as of January 31, 2007).

In addition, we may, from time to time, offer shares of our equity securities, debt securities or
options to purchase stock in exchange for property.

Other Strategies and Activities

. While we emphasize equity real estate investments in rental
apartment communities, we have the ability to invest in other types of real estate, mortgages
(including participating or convertible mortgages), securities of other REITs or real estate
operating companies, or securities of technology companies that relate to our real estate
operations or of companies that provide services to us or our residents, in each case consistent
with our qualification as a REIT. On occasion, we own and operate retail space at our communities
when either (i) the highest and best use of the space is for retail (e.g., street level in an urban
area) or (ii) we believe the retail space will enhance the attractiveness of the community to
residents. As of December 31, 2006, we had a total of 327,010 square feet of rentable retail space
that produced gross rental revenue in 2006 of $5,258,000 (0.7% of total revenue). If we secure a
development right and believe that its best use, in whole or in part, is to develop the real estate
with the intent to sell rather than hold the asset, we may, through a taxable REIT subsidiary,
develop real estate for sale. At present, we expect to develop with the intent to sell, directly
through a taxable REIT subsidiary or indirectly through a joint venture partnership, one or more
land parcels. Any investment in securities of other entities, and any development of real estate
for sale, is subject to the percentage of ownership limitations, gross income tests, and other
limitations that must be observed for REIT qualification.


We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of other
issuers and do not intend to do so. At all times we intend to make
investments in a manner so as to
qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes to the Internal Revenue Code (or the
Treasury Regulations), the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest
to qualify as a REIT.

Inflation and Deflation

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. In an inflationary
environment, this may allow us to realize increased rents upon renewal of existing leases or the
beginning of new leases. Short-term leases generally minimize our risk from the adverse effects of
inflation, although these leases generally permit residents to leave at the end of the lease term
and therefore expose us to the effect of a decline in market rents. In a deflationary rent
environment, we may be exposed to declining rents more quickly under these shorter-term leases.

Tax Matters

We filed
an election with our 1994 federal income tax return to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and intend to maintain our qualification as a REIT in
the future. As a qualified REIT, with limited exceptions, we will not be taxed under federal and
certain state income tax laws at the corporate level on our net income to the extent net income is
distributed to our stockholders. We expect to make sufficient distributions to avoid income tax at
the corporate level. While we believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT and we intend
to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT, there can be no
assurance that we will be successful in this regard. Qualification as a REIT involves the
application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which there
are limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety
of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.

Competition

We face competition from other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension and
investment funds, partnerships and investment companies and other apartment REITs, to acquire and
develop apartment communities and acquire land for future development. As an owner and operator of
apartment communities, we also face competition for prospective residents from other operators
whose communities may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may
be perceived as a better value proposition given the quality, location and amenities that the
resident seeks. We also compete with the condominium and single-family home markets. Although we
often compete against large sophisticated developers and operators for development opportunities
and for prospective residents, real estate developers and operators of any size can provide
effective competition for both real estate assets and potential residents.

Environmental and Related Matters

As a current or prior owner, operator and developer of real estate, we are subject to various
federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances and also could be liable to
third parties resulting from environmental contamination or noncompliance at our communities. For
some development communities, we undertake extensive environmental remediation to prepare the site
for construction, which could be a significant portion of our total construction cost.
Environmental remediation efforts could expose us to possible liabilities for accidents or improper
handling of contaminated materials during construction. These and other risks related to
environmental matters are described in more detail in Item 1a., “Risk Factors”.


Other Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.
You may read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from
the SEC’s website at

www.sec.gov

. In addition, you may read our SEC fillings at the
offices of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), which is located at 20 Board Street, New York, New
York 10005. Our SEC filings are available at the NYSE because our common stock and an outstanding
series of preferred stock are listed on the NYSE.

We maintain a website at

www.avalonbay.com

. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge in the
“Investor Relations” section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are
filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, the charters of our Board’s Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, as well as our
Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, are available free of charge in that section
of our website or by writing to AvalonBay Communities, Inc., 2900 Eisenhower Avenue, Suite 300,
Alexandria, Virginia 22314, Attention: Chief Financial Officer.

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of California in 1978. In 1995, we reincorporated
in the State of Maryland and have been focused on the ownership and operation of apartment
communities since that time. As of December 31, 2006, we had 1,767 employees.


ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS

Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences, including those
described below. This Item 1a includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to our
discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements on page 65.

Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability.

We intend to continue to develop and redevelop apartment home communities. These activities can
include long planning and entitlement timelines and can involve complex and costly activities,
including significant environmental remediation or construction work in high-density urban areas.
These activities may be exposed to the following risks:

We project construction costs based on market conditions at the time we prepare our budgets, and
our projections include changes that we anticipate but cannot predict with certainty.
Construction costs have been increasing, particularly for materials such as steel, concrete and
lumber, and, for some of our Development Communities and Development Rights, the total
construction costs may be higher than the original budget. Total capitalized cost includes all
capitalized costs projected to be incurred to develop or redevelop a community, determined in
accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), including:


Costs to redevelop communities that have been acquired have, in some cases, exceeded our original
estimates and similar increases in costs may be experienced in the future. We cannot assure you
that market rents in effect at the time new development or redevelopment communities complete
lease-up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased construction or
reconstruction costs.

Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could hurt occupancy or rental rates.

Local conditions in our markets significantly affect occupancy or rental rates at our communities.
The risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets include the following:

Changes in applicable laws, or noncompliance with applicable laws, could adversely affect our
operations or expose us to liability.

We must operate our communities in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and
regulations, including landlord tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to business
operations. Noncompliance with laws could expose us to liability.

Compliance with changes in (i) laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions
existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, (ii) rent control or
rent stabilization laws or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies
affecting the use and operation of our communities, including changes to building codes and fire
and life-safety codes, may result in lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated
expenditures.

Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents.

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. Because these leases
generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental
revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer
terms.

Competition could limit our ability to lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents.

Our apartment communities compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including
other rental apartments, condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent, as well
as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential
housing in a particular area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartment homes and to
increase or maintain rental rates.

Attractive investment opportunities may not be available, which could adversely affect our
profitability.

We expect that other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension funds, other
REITs and other well-capitalized investors, will compete with us to acquire existing properties
and to develop new properties. This competition could increase prices for properties of the type
we would likely pursue and adversely affect our profitability.


Insufficient cash flow could affect our debt financing and create refinancing risk.

We are subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow
will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. In this regard, we note
that we are required to annually distribute dividends generally equal to at least 90% of our REIT
taxable income, computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain,
in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT, and this requirement limits the amount of our
cash flow available to meet required principal and interest payments. The principal outstanding
balance on a portion of our debt will not be fully amortized prior to its maturity. Although we
may be able to repay our debt by using our cash flows, we cannot assure you that we will have
sufficient cash flows available to make all required principal payments. Therefore, we may need to
refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may
not be able to refinance existing debt or that a refinancing will not be done on as favorable
terms, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations.

Rising interest rates could increase interest costs and could affect the market price of our
common stock.

We currently have, and may in the future, incur variable interest rate debt. Accordingly, if
interest rates increase, our interest costs will also rise, unless we have made arrangements that
hedge the risk of rising interest rates. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may
lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a greater annual dividend yield, which could
adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

Bond financing and zoning compliance requirements could limit our income, restrict the use of
communities and cause favorable financing to become unavailable.

We have financed some of our apartment communities with obligations issued by local government
agencies because the interest paid to the holders of this debt is generally exempt from federal
income taxes and, therefore, the interest rate is generally more favorable to us. These
obligations are commonly referred to as “tax-exempt bonds” and generally must be secured by
communities. As a condition to obtaining tax-exempt financing, or on occasion as a condition to
obtaining favorable zoning in some jurisdictions, we will commit to make some of the apartments in
a community available to households whose income does not exceed certain thresholds (e.g., 50% or
80% of area median income), or who meet other qualifying tests. As of December 31, 2006,
approximately 7% of our apartment homes at current operating communities were under use
limitations such as these. These commitments, which may run without expiration or may expire
after a period of time (such as 15 or 20 years) may limit our ability to raise rents aggressively
and, in consequence, can also limit increases in the value of the communities subject to these
restrictions.

In addition, some of our tax-exempt bond financing documents require us to obtain a guarantee from
a financial institution of payment of the principal of, and interest on, the bonds. The guarantee
may take the form of a letter of credit, surety bond, guarantee agreement or other additional
collateral. If the financial institution defaults in its guarantee obligations, or if we are
unable to renew the applicable guarantee or otherwise post satisfactory collateral, a default will
occur under the applicable tax-exempt bonds and the community could be foreclosed upon.

Risks related to indebtedness.

We have a $650,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., and Wachovia Bank, N.A., serving together as syndication agent and as banks, Bank of
America, N.A., serving as administrative agent, swing lender, issuing bank and a bank, Morgan
Stanley Bank, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, serving
collectively as documentation agent and as banks, and a syndicate of other financial institutions,
serving as banks. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of
indebtedness that may be incurred. Accordingly, subject to compliance with outstanding debt
covenants, we could incur more debt, resulting in an increased risk of default on our obligations
and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition
and results of operations.


The mortgages on those of our properties subject to secured debt, our unsecured credit facility
and the indentures under which a substantial portion of our debt was issued contain customary
restrictions, requirements and other limitations, as well as certain financial and operating
covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining compliance with these
restrictions could limit our flexibility. A default in these requirements, if uncured, could
result in a requirement that we repay indebtedness, which could severely affect our liquidity and
increase our financing costs.

Failure to generate sufficient revenue could limit cash flow available for distributions to
stockholders.

A decrease in rental revenue could have an adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions to
our stockholders and our ability to maintain our status as a REIT. Significant expenditures
associated with each community such as debt service payments, if any, real estate taxes, insurance
and maintenance costs are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income
from a community.

Debt financing may not be available and equity issuances could be dilutive to our stockholders.

Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt
and equity financing. Debt financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on favorable
terms. If we issue additional equity securities, the interests of existing stockholders could be
diluted.

Difficulty of selling apartment communities could limit flexibility.

Federal tax laws may limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of a community (unless we own it
through a subsidiary which will incur a taxable gain upon sale) if we are found to have held,
acquired or developed the community primarily with the intent to resell the community, and this
limitation may affect our ability to sell communities without adversely affecting returns to our
stockholders. In addition, real estate in our markets can at times be hard to sell, especially if
market conditions are poor. These potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may
limit our ability to change or reduce the apartment communities in our portfolio promptly in
response to changes in economic or other conditions.

Acquisitions may not yield anticipated results.

Subject to the requirements related to the Fund, we may in the future acquire apartment
communities on a select basis. Our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the
following risks:

•

an acquired property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment; and

•

our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove inaccurate.

Failure to succeed in new markets or in activities other than the development, ownership and
operation of residential rental communities may have adverse consequences.

We may from time to time commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our
existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. As noted in the business description
above, we also own and operate retail space when a retail component represents the best use of the
space, as is often the case with large urban in-fill developments. Also as noted in the business
description above, we expect to develop, through a taxable REIT subsidiary, directly or through a
joint venture partnership, one or more parcels with the intent to sell, which we believe
represents the best use for those parcels. Our historical experience in our existing markets in
developing, owning and operating rental communities does not ensure that we will be able to
operate successfully in new markets, should we choose to enter them, or that we will be successful
in these other activities. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new
markets, including an inability to evaluate accurately local apartment market conditions; an
inability to obtain land for development or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; an
inability to hire and retain key personnel; and lack of familiarity with local governmental and
permitting procedures. We may be unsuccessful in owning and operating retail space at our
communities or in developing real estate with the intent to sell.


Risks involved in real estate activity through joint ventures.

Instead of acquiring or developing apartment communities directly, at times we invest as a partner
or a co-venturer. Partnership or joint venture investments involve risks, including the
possibility that our partner might become insolvent or otherwise refuse to make capital
contributions when due; that we may be responsible to our partner for indemnifiable losses; that
our partner might at any time have business goals which are inconsistent with ours; and that our
partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or
requests. Frequently, we and our partner may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell
arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a
time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction.

Risks associated with an investment in and management of a discretionary investment fund

.

We have formed the Fund which, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage as the general partner
and to which we have committed $50,000,000, representing an approximate 15% equity interest. This
presents risks, including the following:

Risk of earthquake damage.

As further described in Item 2., “Communities – Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses,” many of
our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. We
cannot assure you that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels.
In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the
affected community, as well as anticipated future revenue from that community. We would also
continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the
community. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial
condition and results of operations.

Insurance
coverage for earthquakes is expensive due to limited industry capacity. As a result, we may
experience shortages in desired coverage levels if market conditions are such that insurance is
not available.

A significant uninsured property or liability
loss could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

In addition to the earthquake insurance discussed above, we carry commercial general liability
insurance, property insurance and terrorism insurance with respect to our communities on terms we
consider commercially reasonable.


There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses
arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either
uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s view, economically impractical. If
an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, we could
lose our capital invested in a community, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such
community. We would also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other
obligations related to the community. If an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we
would incur the cost of defense and settlement with, or court ordered damages to, that third
party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect
our business and our financial condition and results of operations.

We may incur costs and increased expenses to repair property damage resulting from inclement
weather.

Particularly in the Northeast and Midwest we are exposed to risks associated with inclement winter
weather, including increased costs for the removal of snow and ice as well as from delays in
construction. In addition, inclement weather could increase the need for maintenance and repair of
our communities.

We may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance.

Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, we may be
required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and remediate the effects of
hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our properties and may be held
liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property,
personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred
as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial. The presence of such
substances, or the failure to properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our
ability to borrow against, sell or rent the affected property.

In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the
government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination.

The development, construction and operation of our communities are subject to regulations and
permitting under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which regulate
matters including wetlands protection, storm water runoff and wastewater discharge. Noncompliance
with such laws and regulations may subject us to fines and penalties. We do not currently
anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result of noncompliance with these
laws.

Certain federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances govern the removal,
encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials (“ACMs”) when such materials are in
poor condition or in the event of renovation or demolition of a building. These laws and the
common law may impose liability for release of ACMs and may allow third parties to seek recovery
from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to ACMs.
We are not aware that any ACMs were used in the construction of the communities we developed.
ACMs were, however, used in the construction of several of the communities that we acquired. We
implement an operations and maintenance program at each of the communities at which ACMs are
detected. We do not currently anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result
of the presence of ACMs at our communities.

We are aware that some of our communities have lead paint and have implemented an operations and
maintenance program at each of those communities. We do not currently anticipate that we will
incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of lead paint at our communities.

All of our stabilized operating communities, and all of the communities that we are currently
developing or redeveloping, have been subjected to at least a Phase I or similar environmental
assessment, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water
sampling. These assessments, together with subsurface assessments conducted on some properties,
have not revealed, and we are not otherwise aware of, any
environmental conditions that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business,
assets, financial condition or results of operation. In connection with our ownership, operation
and development of communities, from time to time we undertake substantial remedial action in
response to the presence of subsurface or other contaminants. In some cases, an indemnity exists
upon which we may be able to rely if environmental liability arises from the contamination or
remediation costs exceed estimates.


There can be no assurance, however, that all necessary
remediation actions have been or will be undertaken at our properties or that we will be
indemnified, in full or at all, in the event that environmental liability arises.

Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials,
particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of
time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to
remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years
that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or
other reactions. To help limit mold growth, we educate residents about the importance of adequate
ventilation and request or require that they notify us when they see mold or excessive moisture.
We have established procedures for promptly addressing and remediating mold or excessive moisture
from apartment homes when we become aware of its presence regardless of whether we or the resident
believe a health risk is presented. However, we cannot provide assurance that mold or excessive
moisture will be detected and remediated in a timely manner. If a significant mold problem arises
at one of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to
contain or remove the mold from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities.

Additionally, we have occasionally been involved in developing, managing, leasing and operating
various properties for third parties. Consequently, we may be considered to have been an operator
of such properties and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs or other
potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances. We are not aware of any
material environmental liabilities with respect to properties managed or developed by us or our
predecessors for such third parties.

We cannot assure you that:

Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would
significantly reduce funds available for distribution to stockholders.

If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be subject to federal
income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative
minimum tax). In addition, unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions,
we would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years
following the year in which we lose our qualification. The additional tax liability resulting from
the failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds
available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, we would no longer be required to
make distributions to our stockholders. Thus, our failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair
our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our
common stock.

We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT, and we intend to operate in a manner
that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we are
qualified as a REIT, or that we will remain qualified in the future. This is because qualification
as a REIT involves the application of highly technical
and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial and
administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and
circumstances not entirely within our control. In addition, future legislation, new regulations,
administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the
application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax
purposes or the federal income tax consequences of this qualification.


Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our
income and property and on taxable income that we do not distribute to our shareholders. In
addition, we may engage in activities through taxable subsidiaries and will be subject to federal
income tax at regular corporate rates on the income of those subsidiaries.

The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our
company is limited by certain provisions of our charter and bylaws and by Maryland law.

There are provisions in our charter and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a
proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in
their best interests. These provisions include the following:

Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock
without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights, including voting rights,
of any series of preferred stock issued. The Board of Directors may issue preferred stock without
stockholder approval, which could allow the Board to issue one or more classes or series of
preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or a change in control.

To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in
value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer
individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To maintain this qualification,
and to otherwise address concerns about concentrations of ownership of our stock, our charter
generally prohibits ownership (directly, indirectly by virtue of the attribution provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code, or beneficially as defined in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act) by
any single stockholder of more than 9.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of any class or
series of our stock. In general, under our charter, pension plans and mutual funds may directly
and beneficially own up to 15% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of stock. Under
our charter, our Board of Directors may in its sole discretion waive or modify the ownership limit
for one or more persons. These ownership limits may prevent or delay a change in control and, as a
result, could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to realize a premium for their shares of
common stock.

Our bylaws provide that the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of all of the shares
entitled to be cast in the election of directors is required to elect a director. In a contested
election, if no nominee receives the vote of holders of a majority of all of the shares entitled
to be cast, the incumbent directors would remain in office. This requirement may prevent or delay
a change in control and, as a result, could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to realize
a premium for their shares of common stock.

As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to the provisions of the Maryland General Corporation
Law. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with
statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions may occur, which may delay or prevent
offers to acquire us or increase the difficulty of completing any offers, even if they are in our
stockholders’ best interests. In addition, other provisions of the Maryland General Corporation
Law permit the Board of Directors to make elections and to take actions without stockholder
approval (such as classifying our Board such that the entire Board is not up for reelection
annually) that, if made or taken, could have the effect of discouraging or delaying a change in
control.

ITEM 1b.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.


ITEM 2.       COMMUNITIES

Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities,
communities in various stages of development (“Development Communities”) and Development Rights as
defined below. Our current operating communities are further distinguished as Established
Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities and Redevelopment Communities. The
following is a description of each category:

Current Communities

are categorized as Established, Other Stabilized,
Lease-Up, or Redevelopment according to the following attributes:

•

Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities)

are
consolidated communities where a comparison of operating results from
the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities
were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the
beginning of the prior year. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the
Established Communities are communities that are consolidated for
financial reporting purposes, had stabilized occupancy and operating
expenses as of January 1, 2005, are not conducting or planning to
conduct substantial redevelopment activities and are not held for sale
or planned for disposition within the current year. A community is
considered to have stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i) attainment
of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion
of development or redevelopment.

•

Other Stabilized Communities

includes all other completed communities
that we own or have a direct or indirect ownership interest in, and that
have stabilized occupancy, as defined above. Other Stabilized
Communities do not include communities that are conducting or planning
to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year.

•

Lease-Up Communities

are communities where construction has been
complete for less than one year and where physical occupancy has not
reached 95%.

•

Redevelopment Communities

are communities where substantial
redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current
year. For communities that we wholly own, redevelopment is considered
substantial when capital invested during the reconstruction effort is
expected to exceed the lesser of $5,000,000 or 10% of the community’s
acquisition cost. The definition of substantial redevelopment may
differ for communities owned through a joint venture arrangement.

Development Communities

are communities that are under construction and
for which a final certificate of occupancy has not been received. These
communities may be partially complete and operating.

Development Rights

are development opportunities in the early phase of the
development process for which we either have an option to acquire land or enter into
a leasehold interest, for which we are the buyer under a long-term conditional
contract to purchase land or where we own land to develop a new community. We
capitalize related pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new developments for
which we currently believe future development is probable.

In addition, we own approximately 60,000 square feet of office space in Alexandria,
Virginia, for our corporate office, with all other regional and administrative offices
leased under operating leases.


As of December 31, 2006, communities that we owned or held a
direct or indirect interest in were classified as follows:

Number of

Number of

communities

apartment homes

Current Communities

Established Communities:

Northeast


8,674

Mid-Atlantic


5,413

Midwest



Pacific Northwest


2,500

Northern California


8,450

Southern California


3,430

Total Established


29,354

Other Stabilized Communities:

Northeast


6,088

Mid-Atlantic


1,397

Midwest



Pacific Northwest



Northern California



Southern California


2,128

Total Other Stabilized


10,887

Lease-Up Communities



Redevelopment Communities


2,381

Total Current Communities


43,141

Development Communities


5,153

Development Rights


14,185

Our holdings under each of the above categories are discussed on the following pages.

Current Communities

Our Current Communities are primarily garden-style apartment communities consisting of two and
three-story buildings in landscaped settings. In January 2007, the Fund acquired one community
containing 392 apartment homes. The Current Communities, as of January 31, 2007, include 115
garden-style (of which 15 are mixed communities and include townhomes), 21 high-rise and 15
mid-rise apartment communities. The Current Communities offer many attractive amenities including
some or all of the following:

Other features at various communities may include:

•

swimming pools;

•

fitness centers;

•

tennis courts; and

•

business centers.

We also have an extensive and ongoing maintenance program to keep all communities and apartment
homes substantially free of deferred maintenance and, where vacant, available for immediate
occupancy.


We believe that the aesthetic appeal of our communities and a service oriented
property management team, focused on the specific needs of residents, enhances market appeal to
discriminating residents. We believe this will ultimately achieve higher rental rates and
occupancy levels while minimizing resident turnover and operating expenses.

Our Current Communities are located in the following geographic markets:

Number of

Number of apartment

Percentage of total

communities at

homes at

apartment homes at

1-1-06

1-31-07

1-1-06

1-31-07

1-1-06

1-31-07

Northeast



15,671

15,732

37.8

%

36.1

%

Boston, MA



4,514

4,490

10.9

%

10.3

%

Fairfield County, CT



4,375

3,812

10.6

%

8.8

%

Long Island, NY




1,621

2.2

%

3.7

%

Northern New Jersey



1,182

1,182

2.9

%

2.7

%

Central New Jersey



1,752

2,042

4.2

%

4.7

%

New York, NY



2,933

2,585

7.1

%

5.9

%

Mid-Atlantic



6,859

7,622

16.6

%

17.5

%

Baltimore, MD



1,224

1,987

3.0

%

4.6

%

Washington, DC



5,635

5,635

13.6

%

12.9

%

Midwest



1,696

1,952

4.1

%

4.5

%

Chicago, IL



1,696

1,952

4.1

%

4.5

%

Pacific Northwest



3,111

3,111

7.5

%

7.2

%

Seattle, WA



3,111

3,111

7.5

%

7.2

%

Northern California



9,203

9,366

22.2

%

21.5

%

Oakland-East Bay, CA



2,089

2,089

5.0

%

4.8

%

San Francisco, CA



2,015

2,489

4.9

%

5.7

%

San Jose, CA



5,099

4,788

12.3

%

11.0

%

Southern California



4,872

5,750

11.8

%

13.2

%

Los Angeles, CA



2,448

3,006

5.9

%

6.9

%

Orange County, CA



1,366

1,686

3.3

%

3.9

%

San Diego, CA



1,058

1,058

2.6

%

2.4

%



41,412

43,533

100.0

%

100.0

%

We manage and operate substantially all of our Current Communities. During the year ended December
31, 2006, including communities owned by joint ventures and the Fund, we completed construction of
1,368 apartment homes in six communities, acquired 1,397 apartment homes in six communities and
sold 1,036 apartment homes in four communities. The average age of our Current Communities, on a
weighted average basis according to number of apartment homes, is 14.1 years. When adjusted to
reflect redevelopment activity, as if redevelopment were a new construction completion date, the
average age of our Current Communities is 9.3 years.

Of the Current Communities, as of January 31, 2007, we own:


•

a residual profits interest (with no ownership interest) in a limited liability company
to which an operating community was transferred upon completion of construction in the
second quarter of 2006.

We also hold, directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries, the full fee simple ownership interest
in 17 of the Development Communities.

In each of our five partnerships structured as DownREITs, either AvalonBay or one of our
wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are one or more limited partners whose
interest in the partnership is represented by units of limited partnership interest. For each
DownREIT partnership, limited partners are entitled to receive an initial distribution before any
distribution is made to the general partner. Although the partnership agreements for each of the
DownREITs are different, generally the distributions per unit paid to the holders of units of
limited partnership interests have approximated our current common stock dividend amount. The
holders of units of limited partnership interest have the right to present all or some of their
units for redemption for a cash amount as determined by the applicable partnership agreement and
based on the fair value of our common stock. In lieu of a cash redemption by the partnership, we
may elect to acquire any unit presented for redemption for one share of our common stock or for
such cash amount. As of January 31, 2007, there were 144,955 DownREIT partnership units
outstanding. The DownREIT partnerships are consolidated for financial reporting purposes.


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

Size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/06



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

CURRENT COMMUNITIES

NORTHEAST

Boston, MA

Avalon at Bedford Center

Bedford, MA


159,704

38.0


1,149

95.7

%

85.4

%(3)

17.1

%

$

1,705

$

1.27

(3)

24,716

Avalon at Center Place (11)

Providence, RI


222,834

1.2

1991/1997


88.0

%

93.8

%

95.6

%

2,247

2.13

28,744

Avalon at Crane Brook

Danvers & Peabody, MA


410,454

20.0


1,271

95.3

%

95.5

%

85.6

%

1,349

1.21

54,781

Avalon at Faxon Park

Quincy, MA


175,649

8.3


1,027

95.3

%

96.3

%

95.7

%

1,596

1.50

15,657

Avalon at Flanders Hill

Westborough, MA


299,828

62.0


1,099

95.7

%

95.4

%

97.0

%

1,515

1.35

37,202

Avalon at Lexington

Lexington, MA


230,277

16.1


1,163

98.0

%

95.9

%

97.1

%

1,775

1.46

16,034

Avalon at Newton Highlands (8)

Newton, MA


339,484

7.0


1,177

95.2

%

95.2

%

96.0

%

2,220

1.83

56,664

Avalon at Prudential Center

Boston, MA


732,237

1.0

1968/1998


97.4

%

97.5

%

96.8

%

2,767

2.87

156,653

Avalon at Steven’s Pond

Saugus, MA


381,825

82.6


1,106

96.0

%

95.7

%

94.6

%

1,587

1.30

54,285

Avalon at The Pinehills I

Plymouth, MA


151,712

6.0


1,954

96.0

%

93.4

%

83.9

%

1,814

1.13

19,943

Avalon Essex

Peabody, MA


198,478

11.1


1,289

98.1

%

97.3

%

96.6

%

1,605

1.21

21,817

Avalon Ledges

Weymouth, MA


329,822

57.6


1,023

95.4

%

95.3

%

94.3

%

1,432

1.26

36,367

Avalon Oaks

Wilmington, MA


229,752

22.5


1,023

98.5

%

95.1

%

93.5

%

1,515

1.28

21,257

Avalon Oaks West

Wilmington, MA


133,376

27.0


1,033

97.5

%

93.7

%

93.8

%

1,432

1.21

16,844

Avalon Orchards

Marlborough, MA


176,497

23.0


1,219

95.5

%

96.4

%

97.2

%

1,495

1.27

21,150

Avalon Summit

Quincy, MA


224,418

8.0

1986/1996


97.6

%

95.5

%

95.2

%

1,221

1.27

17,345

Avalon West

Westborough, MA


147,472

8.0


1,229

95.8

%

95.9

%

96.7

%

1,432

1.12

11,332

Essex Place

Peabody, MA


250,322

18.0



96.2

%

97.8

%

96.3

%

1,090

1.22

23,727

Fairfield-New Haven, CT

Avalon at Greyrock Place

Stamford, CT


314,600

3.0


1,040

97.4

%

97.9

%

97.6

%

2,088

1.99

70,393

Avalon Danbury

Danbury, CT


235,320

36.0


1,006

94.0

%

94.5

%

40.8

%(3)

1,619

1.52

35,454

Avalon Darien

Darien, CT


242,533

32.0


1,282

95.8

%

93.7

%

97.7

%

2,500

1.82

41,519

Avalon Gates

Trumbull, CT


379,282

37.0


1,116

95.0

%

98.1

%

96.3

%

1,554

1.37

37,105

Avalon Glen

Stamford, CT


229,644

4.1



93.7

%

97.2

%

98.0

%

1,878

1.89

32,143

Avalon Haven

North Haven, CT


139,972

10.6


1,094

96.1

%

97.4

%

95.9

%

1,511

1.35

13,987

Avalon Milford I

Milford, CT


216,746

22.0



95.9

%

98.1

%

93.9

%

1,363

1.52

31,441

Avalon New Canaan (7)

New Canaan, CT


131,782

9.1


1,251

92.3

%

95.7

%

96.4

%

2,910

2.20

24,364

Avalon on Stamford Harbor

Stamford, CT


323,587

12.1


1,002

98.8

%

97.6

%

96.5

%

2,334

2.27

62,886

Avalon Orange

Orange, CT


163,238

9.6



95.2

%

97.9

%

64.1

%(3)

1,436

1.45

22,096

Avalon Springs

Wilton, CT


158,259

12.0


1,552

95.1

%

92.7

%

93.9

%

2,845

1.70

17,194

Avalon Valley

Danbury, CT


300,044

17.1


1,070

97.4

%

98.1

%

94.9

%

1,621

1.42

26,310

Avalon Walk I & II

Hamden, CT


766,604

38.4

1992/1994


89.9

%

91.7

%(2)

93.2

%

1,242

1.14

(2)

65,461

Long Island, NY

Avalon at Glen Cove South

Glen Cove, NY


261,425

4.0


1,050

96.9

%

95.5

%

95.8

%

2,289

2.14

67,902

Avalon Commons

Smithtown, NY


377,240

20.6


1,209

96.8

%

97.1

%

97.4

%

2,014

1.62

33,715

Avalon Court

Melville, NY


596,942

35.4

1997/2000

1,208

96.4

%

96.3

%

96.8

%

2,394

1.91

59,822

Avalon Pines I

Coram, NY


362,124

32.0


1,485

95.3

%

95.9

%

71.6

%(3)

1,816

1.43

46,537

Avalon Pines II

Coram, NY


185,954

42.0


1,223

98.7

%

71.0

%(3)

N/A

2,310

1.34

(3)

23,866

Avalon Towers

Long Beach, NY


124,611

1.3

1990/1995

1,143

98.2

%

97.7

%

97.7

%

3,339

2.85

21,278


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

Size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/06



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

Northern New Jersey

Avalon at Edgewater

Edgewater, NJ


428,611

7.6


1,051

96.3

%

95.8

%

96.3

%

2,269

2.07

75,214

Avalon at Florham Park

Florham Park, NJ


330,410

41.9


1,224

95.6

%

97.6

%

96.4

%

2,467

1.97

41,816

Avalon Cove

Jersey City, NJ


575,334

11.0


1,142

98.8

%

97.7

%

97.5

%

2,677

2.29

92,872

Central New Jersey

Avalon at Freehold

Freehold, NJ


317,331

40.3


1,072

98.0

%

96.3

%

95.6

%

1,679

1.51

34,748

Avalon Run (13)

Lawrenceville, NJ


443,168

9.0


1,010

95.8

%

94.6

%

95.5

%

1,401

1.27

60,045

Avalon Run East

Lawrenceville, NJ


257,938

27.1


1,287

97.1

%

95.8

%

96.0

%

1,594

1.22

16,358

Avalon Run East II (8)

Lawrenceville, NJ


341,320

70.5


1,095

96.5

%

96.2

%

87.6

%

1,722

1.51

52,144

Avalon Watch

West Windsor, NJ


486,069

64.4



96.1

%

96.4

%

95.3

%

1,368

1.39

30,138

New York, NY

Avalon Bowery Place I

New York, NY


162,000

1.1



59.7

%

32.2

%(3)

N/A

3,418

1.40

(3)

89,577

Avalon Gardens

Nanuet, NY


608,842

62.5


1,208

95.2

%

97.0

%

97.8

%

2,035

1.63

55,112

Avalon Green

Elmsford, NY


113,538

16.9


1,081

94.3

%

96.5

%

96.3

%

2,148

1.92

13,243

Avalon on the Sound (11)

New Rochelle, NY


372,860

2.4



96.4

%

96.2

%

96.2

%

2,237

2.38

117,098

Avalon Riverview I (11)

Long Island City, NY


332,947

1.0



97.0

%

96.7

%

96.7

%

2,956

3.19

94,561

Avalon View

Wappingers Falls, NY


327,547

41.0


1,137

92.0

%

95.0

%

92.7

%

1,320

1.10

19,267

Avalon Willow

Mamaroneck, NY


199,842

4.0



98.2

%

98.9

%

96.4

%

2,044

2.29

47,514

The Avalon

Bronxville, NY


119,410

1.5


1,085

96.4

%

97.0

%

96.4

%

3,438

3.07

31,356

MID-ATLANTIC

Baltimore, MD

Avalon at Fairway Hills I & II

Columbia, MD


386,344

23.8

1987/1996

1,005

95.1

%

97.0

%

94.7

%

1,207

1.16

22,771

Avalon at Fairway Hills III

Columbia, MD


337,683

20.2

1987/1996

1,005

94.9

%

95.1

%(2)

91.1

%(2)

1,293

1.22

(2)

29,353

Avalon at Symphony Glen

Columbia, MD


179,880

10.0


1,022

91.0

%

96.6

%

95.9

%

1,200

1.13

9,355

Avalon Landing

Annapolis, MD


117,033

13.8

1984/1995


97.5

%

97.8

%

97.2

%

1,177

1.55

10,188

Southgate Crossing

Columbia, MD


212,420

12.7

1986/2006


95.3

%

93.8

%

N/A


0.24

36,358

Washington, DC

AutumnWoods

Fairfax, VA


355,228

24.3

1989/1996


86.4

%

94.6

%(2)

95.2

%

1,225

1.37

(2)

33,201

Avalon at Arlington Square

Arlington, VA


901,120

20.1


1,070

97.1

%

96.5

%

94.7

%

1,770

1.60

112,609

Avalon at Ballston — Washington Towers

Arlington, VA


294,954

4.1



95.9

%

97.8

%

97.2

%

1,602

1.83

38,110

Avalon at Cameron Court

Alexandria, VA


467,292

16.0


1,016

95.2

%

97.3

%

95.3

%

1,725

1.65

43,533

Avalon at Decoverly

Rockville, MD


368,374

24.0

1991/1995

1,001

94.8

%

97.0

%

95.3

%

1,369

1.33

32,298

Avalon at Foxhall

Washington, DC


297,875

2.7



98.7

%

96.6

%

94.3

%

2,050

2.05

44,388

Avalon at Gallery Place I

Washington, DC


184,230

0.5



97.5

%

95.7

%

95.6

%

2,235

2.36

48,873

Avalon at Grosvenor Station (8)

North Bethesda, MD


477,459

10.0



96.8

%

97.3

%

95.7

%

1,627

1.65

82,157

Avalon at Providence Park

Fairfax, VA


148,282

9.3

1988/1997

1,052

100.0

%

96.9

%

96.8

%

1,387

1.28

11,680

Avalon at Rock Spring (9) (11)

North Bethesda, MD


388,232

10.2


1,006

97.2

%

96.6

%

94.9

%

1,659

1.59

46,260

Avalon at Traville (8)

North Potomac, MD


573,717

47.9


1,103

96.5

%

97.7

%

94.7

%

1,595

1.41

69,747

Avalon Crescent

McLean, VA


613,426

19.1


1,099

96.1

%

96.0

%

96.2

%

1,770

1.55

57,601

Avalon Fields I & II

Gaithersburg, MD


292,282

9.2


1,050

92.7

%

97.0

%

95.7

%

1,350

1.29

22,778

Avalon Knoll

Germantown, MD


290,544

26.7



95.7

%

97.2

%

95.8

%

1,147

1.15

9,395


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

Size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/06



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

MIDWEST

Chicago, IL

Avalon Arlington Heights

Arlington Heights, IL


346,416

2.8

1987/2000


91.9

%

92.9

%(2)

95.0

%

1,374

1.51

(2)

55,857

Avalon at Danada Farms (8)

Wheaton, IL


350,606

19.2


1,188

95.9

%

95.3

%

95.6

%

1,346

1.08

38,972

Avalon at Stratford Green (8)

Bloomingdale, IL


237,084

12.7


1,235

95.3

%

95.9

%

95.1

%

1,322

1.03

22,164

Avalon at West Grove (8)

Westmont, IL


388,500

17.4



94.5

%

95.0

%

96.2

%


0.86

31,272

PACIFIC NORTHWEST

Seattle, WA

Avalon at Bear Creek (8)

Redmond, WA


288,250

22.2


1,092

95.8

%

96.3

%

94.6

%

1,174

1.04

34,857

Avalon Bellevue

Bellevue, WA


167,069

1.7



98.0

%

96.5

%

95.8

%

1,361

1.59

30,862

Avalon Belltown

Seattle, WA


82,418

0.7



96.0

%

96.4

%

95.5

%

1,610

1.88

18,444

Avalon Brandemoor (8)

Lynwood, WA


453,602

27.0


1,070

96.0

%

96.8

%

96.6

%

1,034

0.94

45,646

Avalon HighGrove (8)

Everett, WA


422,482

19.0


1,081

96.4

%

96.5

%

94.9

%


0.86

39,879

Avalon ParcSquare (8)

Redmond, WA


126,951

2.0


1,024

94.4

%

96.4

%

95.4

%

1,371

1.29

19,245

Avalon Redmond Place (8)

Redmond, WA


211,450

8.4

1991/1997


94.6

%

96.7

%

96.4

%

1,116

1.13

26,409

Avalon RockMeadow (8)

Bothell, WA


243,958

11.2


1,184

97.1

%

96.1

%

95.0

%

1,132

0.92

24,806

Avalon WildReed (8)

Everett, WA


259,080

23.0


1,107

96.2

%

96.7

%

95.7

%


0.83

23,095

Avalon Wynhaven (8)

Issaquah, WA


424,803

11.6


1,276

93.7

%

95.4

%

94.0

%

1,286

0.96

52,844

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Oakland-East Bay, CA

Avalon at Union Square

Union City, CA


150,320

8.5

1973/1996


98.1

%

96.7

%

96.9

%

1,106

1.48

22,581

Avalon at Willow Creek

Fremont, CA


191,935

13.5

1985/1994


100.0

%

97.7

%

96.9

%

1,336

1.60

36,212

Avalon Dublin

Dublin, CA


179,004

13.0

1989/1997


96.6

%

97.2

%

96.2

%

1,400

1.55

27,866

Avalon Fremont I

Fremont, CA


316,052

14.3


1,026

95.8

%

96.9

%

96.3

%

1,583

1.49

56,612

Avalon Pleasanton

Pleasanton, CA


366,062

14.7

1988/1994


97.4

%

96.8

%

95.9

%

1,304

1.57

62,350

Waterford

Hayward, CA


452,043

11.1

1985/1986


95.6

%

95.6

%

94.9

%

1,154

1.33

61,686

San Francisco, CA

Avalon at Cedar Ridge

Daly City, CA


141,411

7.0

1972/1997


97.4

%

96.8

%

96.0

%

1,404

1.87

26,546

Avalon at Diamond Heights

San Francisco, CA


123,047

3.0

1972/1994


98.1

%

97.4

%

95.9

%

1,649

2.01

25,327

Avalon at Mission Bay North

San Francisco, CA


243,089

1.4



92.8

%

95.2

%

95.5

%

3,057

2.99

92,812

Avalon at Nob Hill

San Francisco, CA


108,745

1.4

1990/1995


97.3

%

96.4

%

96.3

%

1,672

2.74

28,071

Avalon Foster City

Foster City, CA


222,364

11.0

1973/1994


97.9

%

97.1

%

97.0

%

1,377

1.73

43,588

Avalon Pacifica

Pacifica, CA


186,800

21.9

1971/1995


96.8

%

96.7

%

96.1

%

1,495

1.70

32,165

Avalon Sunset Towers

San Francisco, CA


171,800

16.0

1961/1996


95.9

%

96.7

%

97.4

%

1,714

2.34

28,778

Avalon Towers by the Bay

San Francisco, CA


243,090

1.0


1,071

97.8

%

96.8

%

96.2

%

2,843

2.57

67,006

Crowne Ridge

San Rafael, CA


221,635

21.9

1973/1996


98.4

%

96.3

%

95.8

%

1,324

1.46

33,063


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

Size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/06



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

San Jose, CA

Avalon at Blossom Hill

San Jose, CA


323,496

7.5



97.8

%

96.7

%

96.2

%

1,484

1.44

62,060

Avalon at Cahill Park

San Jose, CA


218,177

3.8


1,001

95.9

%

97.0

%

97.1

%

1,868

1.81

52,570

Avalon at Creekside

Mountain View, CA


215,680

13.0

1962/1997


98.0

%

97.7

%

96.5

%

1,257

1.67

43,423

Avalon at Foxchase I & II

San Jose, CA


334,956

12.0

1988/1987


97.5

%

96.9

%

96.0

%

1,247

1.43

60,670

Avalon at Parkside

Sunnyvale, CA


203,990

8.0

1991/1996

1,062

99.5

%

98.0

%

97.4

%

1,655

1.53

38,218

Avalon at Pruneyard

Campbell, CA


197,000

8.5

1968/1997


99.6

%

97.4

%

97.0

%

1,251

1.56

32,141

Avalon at River Oaks

San Jose, CA


210,050

4.0

1990/1996


97.3

%

97.6

%

96.7

%

1,487

1.56

45,009

Avalon Campbell

Campbell, CA


326,796

10.8



98.3

%

96.9

%

96.2

%

1,528

1.58

60,114

Avalon Mountain View (7)

Mountain View, CA


211,552

10.5



96.4

%

95.9

%

95.1

%

1,567

1.76

51,609

Avalon on the Alameda

San Jose, CA


299,762

8.9



97.0

%

96.9

%

95.2

%

1,850

1.82

56,506

Avalon Rosewalk

San Jose, CA


448,488

16.6

1997/1999


98.0

%

96.4

%

95.7

%

1,480

1.45

79,364

Avalon Silicon Valley

Sunnyvale, CA


653,929

13.6



95.2

%

96.5

%

95.8

%

1,732

1.81

122,123

Avalon Towers on the Peninsula

Mountain View, CA


218,392

1.9


1,035

97.6

%

96.5

%

96.7

%

2,422

2.26

65,752

CountryBrook (8)

San Jose, CA


322,992

14.0

1985/1996


99.4

%

97.8

%

96.8

%

1,347

1.47

48,790

San Marino

San Jose, CA


209,000

11.5

1984/1988


99.2

%

97.4

%

96.7

%

1,249

1.44

35,017

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Los Angeles, CA

Avalon at Media Center

Burbank, CA


530,084

14.1

1961/1997


96.7

%

95.7

%

95.9

%

1,370

1.85

76,461

Avalon at Warner Center

Woodland Hills, CA


191,114

7.0

1979/1998


96.0

%

96.8

%

97.5

%

1,614

1.86

26,943

Avalon Camarillo

Camarillo, CA


233,267

10.0



99.2

%

54.4

%(3)

N/A

3,196

1.85

(3)

47,174

Avalon Glendale (11)

Burbank, CA


241,714

5.1


1,084

96.0

%

95.4

%

95.7

%

2,237

1.97

40,248

Avalon Woodland Hills

Woodland Hills, CA


594,396

18.2

1989/1997


97.0

%

95.5

%

96.0

%

1,491

1.59

72,073

The Promenade

Burbank, CA


360,587

6.9

1988/2002


98.0

%

97.4

%

96.9

%

1,759

1.90

71,003

Avalon Del Rey (9)(12)

Los Angeles, CA


284,636

5.0



97.4

%

51.5

%(3)

N/A

3,710

2.07

(3)

65,075

Orange County, CA

Avalon at Pacific Bay

Huntington Beach, CA


268,000

9.7

1971/1997


96.7

%

96.0

%

96.7

%

1,455

1.58

32,296

Avalon at South Coast

Costa Mesa, CA


207,672

8.0

1973/1996


98.1

%

98.3

%

97.2

%

1,356

1.66

25,490

Avalon Mission Viejo

Mission Viejo, CA


124,600

7.8

1984/1996


95.8

%

95.5

%

95.4

%

1,233

1.57

14,012

Avalon Newport

Costa Mesa, CA


122,415

6.6

1956/1996


100.0

%

98.2

%

97.5

%

1,566

1.82

10,352

Avalon Santa Margarita

Rancho Santa Margarita, CA


229,593

20.0

1990/1997


97.7

%

96.9

%

96.5

%

1,295

1.64

24,361

San Diego, CA

Avalon at Cortez Hill

San Diego, CA


226,140

1.4

1973/1998


95.6

%

95.1

%

95.0

%

1,404

1.74

34,556

Avalon at Mission Bay

San Diego, CA


402,285

12.9

1969/1997


97.3

%

95.7

%

95.1

%

1,378

1.85

66,281

Avalon at Mission Ridge

San Diego, CA


207,625

4.0

1960/1997

1,038

97.0

%

96.3

%

96.1

%

1,509

1.40

22,421


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

Size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/06



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES

Avalon at Decoverly II

Rockville, MD


182,560

10.8

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

29,423

Avalon at Dublin Station I

Dublin, CA


299,329

4.7

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

42,351

Avalon at Glen Cove North (11)

Glen Cove, NY


101,161

1.3

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

27,137

Avalon at Lexington Hills

Lexington, MA


487,139

2.3

N/A

1,259

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

22,611

Avalon Acton

Acton, MA


353,790

5.0

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

16,672

Avalon Bowery Place II

New York, NY


73,624

1.1

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

15,007

Avalon Chestnut Hill

Chestnut Hill, MA


275,563

4.7

N/A

1,351

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

59,926

Avalon Danvers

Danvers, MA


493,095

75.0

N/A

1,139

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

46,433

Avalon Encino

Los Angeles, CA


131,252

2.0

N/A

1,002

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

22,871

Avalon Lyndhurst

Lyndhurst, NJ


331,122

5.8

N/A

1,010

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

64,226

Avalon Meydenbauer

Bellevue, WA


329,613

3.6

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

36,089

Avalon on the Sound II (11)

New Rochelle, NY


561,981

1.7

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

102,073

Avalon Riverview North

Long Island City, NY


477,657

1.8

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

85,814

Avalon Shrewsbury

Shrewbury, MA


209,548

25.5

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

33,543

Avalon Wilshire

Los Angeles, CA


125,109

1.6

N/A

1,017

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

38,338

Avalon Woburn

Woburn, MA


483,995

56.0

N/A

1,085

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

61,277

Avalon Canoga Park

Conoga Park, CA


186,599

3.3

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

14,031

UNCONSOLIDATED COMMUNITIES

Aurora at Yerba Buena (6)

San Francisco, CA


125,636

0.9

2000/2006


94.4

%

95.4

%(3)

N/A

2,523

3.07

(3)

N/A

Avalon at Aberdeen Station (6)

Aberdeen, NJ


296,033

16.8

2002/2006

1,021

97.0

%

95.0

%(3)

N/A

1,736

1.61

(3)

N/A

Avalon at Mission Bay North II (9)(11)

San Francisco, CA


291,817

1.5



36.4

%

27.8

%(3)

N/A

9,048

2.69

(3)

N/A

Avalon at Poplar Creek (6)

Schaumburg, IL


178,490

12.8

1986/2005


90.8

%

95.9

%(2)

94.3

%(3)

1,073

1.13

(2)

N/A

Avalon Chrystie Place I (9)(11)

New York, NY


266,940

1.5



98.6

%

98.4

%

62.5

%(3)

3,125

4.16

N/A

Avalon Columbia (6)

Columbia, MD


177,284

11.3

1989/2004

1,043

96.5

%

96.1

%(2)

84.4

%(3)

1,273

1.17

(2)

N/A

Avalon Grove (9)

Stamford, CT


365,252

5.1



96.8

%

96.9

%

96.6

%

2,101

2.24

N/A

Avalon Lakeside (6)

Wheaton, IL


162,821

12.4



96.6

%

95.5

%

79.6

%


1.07

N/A

Avalon at Redondo Beach (6)

Redondo Beach, CA


85,380

1.2

1971/2004


97.1

%

94.4

%

95.9

%

1,929

2.24

N/A

Cedar Valley (6)

Columbia, MD


150,276

11.4

1972/2006


97.0

%

96.6

%(3)

N/A

1,187

1.19

N/A

Civic Center (6)

Norwalk, CA


173,568

8.7

1987/2005


89.1

%

94.8

%(2)

98.6

%(3)

1,468

1.54

(2)

N/A

Fuller Martel (6)

Los Angeles, CA


71,846

0.8

1987/2005


96.3

%

96.1

%

97.4

%(3)

1,650

1.81

N/A

Paseo Park (6)

Fremont, CA


105,900

7.0

1987/2005


100.0

%

96.9

%

96.0

%(3)

1,114

1.37

(3)

N/A

Avalon Redmond (6)

Redmond, WA


340,448

24.0

1983/2004


87.5

%

88.4

%(2)

93.9

%

1,016

1.06

(2)

N/A

The Covington (6)

Schaumburg, IL


201,924

13.2

1988/2006


85.9

%

83.8

%(3)

N/A

1,008

1.07

(3)

N/A

Avalon Juanita Village (10)

Kirkland, WA


207,511

2.9



94.3

%

94.1

%

45.4

%(3)

1,289

1.23

N/A

The Springs (6)

Corona, CA


241,440

13.3

1987/2006


94.1

%

94.7

%(3)

N/A

1,066

1.34

(3)

N/A


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Washer &

Large

Balcony,

Non-

Homes w/

1 BR

2BR

3BR

dryer

storage or

patio, deck

direct

Direct

pre-wired

Studios /

Parking

hook-ups

Vaulted

walk-in

or

Built-in

access

access

security

1/1.5 BA

1/1.5 BA

2/2.5/3 BA

2/2.5 BA

3BA

efficiencies

Other

Total

spaces

or units

ceilings

Lofts

Fireplaces

closet

sunroom

bookcases

Carports

garages

garages

systems

CURRENT COMMUNITIES (1)

NORTHEAST

Boston, MA

Avalon at Bedford Center


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Some

All

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon at Center Place


—



—


—



All

None

None

None

Some

Some

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Crane Brook





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon at Faxon Park


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon at Flanders Hill





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon at Lexington





—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Newton Highlands







—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

Most

None

No

No

No

All

Avalon at Prudential Center


—


—



—



None

None

None

None

Most

Some

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Steven’s Pond


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon at The Pinehills I


—



—

—

—



All

Most

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

No

Yes

All

Avalon Essex


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Half

Most

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Ledges





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon Oaks





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon Oaks West





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon Orchards



—

—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Summit





—

—




None

None

None

None

Some

Most

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon West


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

Half

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Essex Place



—

—

—

—

—



Some

None

None

None

Some

Some

None

No

No

No

None

Fairfield-New Haven, CT

Avalon at Greyrock Place





—

—




All

None

None

None

Most

All

None

No

No

No

All

Avalon Danbury


—



—

—

—



All

None

Some

Some

Some

All

None

No

Yes

No

Some

Avalon Darien


—



—

—

—



All

All

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Gates


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Half

All

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon Glen


—



—

—

—



Most

Some

Some

Some

Some

Most

Some

Yes

No

Yes

Most

Avalon Haven


—



—

—




All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon Milford I


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

None

Some

Some

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon New Canaan


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon on Stamford Harbor


—



—


—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

Most

None

No

No

No

All

Avalon Orange


—



—

—




All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

All

Avalon Springs

—

—



—

—

—



All

Half

Half

Most

All

All

None

No

No

Yes

All

Avalon Valley


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon Walk I & II





—

—



1,411

All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

Yes

No

No

Half

Long Island, NY

Avalon at Glen Cove South


—


—

—


—



All

None

None

Some

All

Some

None

No

No

Some

Some

Avalon Commons





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon Court





—

—

—



All

Half

Half

Some

Some

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Pines I


—


—


—

—


1,094

All

Most

Some

Some

Most

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Pines II


—


—

—

—

—



All

Most

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

Some

Some

All

Avalon Towers

—

—


—






All

None

None

None

Most

Most

None

No

Yes

No

None


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Washer &

Large

Balcony,

Non-

Homes w/

1 BR

2BR

3BR

dryer

storage or

patio, deck

direct

Direct

pre-wired

Studios /

Parking

hook-ups

Vaulted

walk-in

or

Built-in

access

access

security

1/1.5 BA

1/1.5 BA

2/2.5/3 BA

2/2.5 BA

3BA

efficiencies

Other

Total

spaces

or units

ceilings

Lofts

Fireplaces

closet

sunroom

bookcases

Carports

garages

garages

systems

Northern New Jersey

Avalon at Edgewater


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

Half

None

No

No

Yes

Some

Avalon at Florham Park


—



—

—

—



All

All

None

Some

Most

Some

None

No

No

Yes

All

Avalon Cove


—




—




All

Some

Some

Some

All

Some

None

No

Yes

No

None

Central New Jersey

Avalon at Freehold





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Half

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Run





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Some

All

None

Yes

No

No

All

Avalon Run East



—


—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

Most

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Run East II





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Some

All

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Watch





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Half

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

New York, NY

Avalon Bowery Place I



—

—

—


—



All

None

None

None

Some

Some

None

No

No

Yes

Some

Avalon Gardens





—

—

—


1,382

All

Half

Half

Some

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Green




—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

All

Avalon on the Sound


—





—



Most

Some

Some

None

Most

Some

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon Riverview I


—





—



All

None

Some

None

Most

Some

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon View





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon Willow


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Some

All

None

No

No

No

No

The Avalon





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

Half

None

No

No

Yes

All

MID-ATLANTIC

Baltimore, MD

Avalon at Fairway Hills I & II





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

Some

All

Some

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Fairway Hills III





—

—




All

Some

None

Most

Some

All

Some

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Symphony Glen





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

All

Most

Some

No

No

No

None

Avalon Landing




—

—

—

—



All

None

None

Most

Most

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Southgate Crossing

63                94



—

—

—


15                 353

All

None

None

Most

None

All

None

No

No

No

None

Washington, DC

AutumnWoods




—

—

—

—



All

Some

None

Some

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon at Arlington Square





—

—



1,411

All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

Some

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon at Ballston — Washington Towers



—

—

—

—

—



All

None

None

Some

Most

All

Some

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Cameron Court


—


—

—

—




All

Most

Some

Some

All

Most

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon at Decoverly


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Foxhall





—





All

Some

None

Some

All

All

Some

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon at Gallery Place I



—


—


—



All

Some

None

None

Most

Some

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon at Grosvenor Station





—


—



All

Some

Some

None

Most

Most

None

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon at Providence Park


—



—

—




All

Some

None

Most

All

All

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Rock Spring





—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon at Traville





—

—

—


1,062

All

Some

Some

Some

All

Most

Some

Yes

Yes

Yes

None

Avalon Crescent




—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Most

Most

All

Some

No

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Fields I & II





—

—




All

Some

Some

Some

Most

Most

None

No

Yes

No

All

Avalon Knoll





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

All

All

Most

No

No

No

None


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Washer &

Large

Balcony,

Non-

Homes w/

1 BR

2BR

3BR

dryer

storage or

patio, deck

direct

Direct

pre-wired

Studios /

Parking

hook-ups

Vaulted

walk-in

or

Built-in

access

access

security

1/1.5 BA

1/1.5 BA

2/2.5/3 BA

2/2.5 BA

3BA

efficiencies

Other

Total

spaces

or units

ceilings

Lofts

Fireplaces

closet

sunroom

bookcases

Carports

garages

garages

systems

MIDWEST

Chicago, IL

Avalon at Arlington Heights


—


—

—


—



All

None

None

None

Some

Half

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Danada Farms


—




—

—



All

None

None

Some

Most

Some

Some

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon at Stratford Green


—



—

—

—



All

None

None

Some

Most

Most

Some

No

Yes

Yes

None

Avalon at West Grove



—

—

—

—

—



None

None

None

None

Some

Half

None

Yes

No

No

None

PACIFIC NORTHWEST

Seattle, WA

Avalon at Bear Creek






—

—



All

Some

None

Most

All

All

Half

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon Bellevue


—


—

—


—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

Some

None

No

No

No

Some

Avalon Belltown


—


—

—


—



All

None

None

None

Most

Some

None

No

No

No

Yes

Avalon Brandemoor





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon HighGrove






—

—



All

Half

None

Most

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

Avalon ParcSquare





—

—




All

Some

None

None

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

Some

Avalon Redmond Place





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

Most

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon RockMeadow






—

—



All

Some

None

Most

Most

All

Some

Yes

No

Yes

All

Avalon WildReed





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon Wynhaven






—




All

Most

Some

Most

Half

Most

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

All

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Oakland-East Bay, CA

Avalon at Union Square



—

—

—

—

—



None

None

None

Most

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon at Willow Creek


—


—

—

—

—



All

None

None

None

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon Dublin





—

—




Most

Some

None

Most

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Fremont I


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

Some

Half

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

All

Avalon Pleasanton


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

None

Most

Some

All

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

None

Waterford


—


—

—

—

—



Some

Some

None

None

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

San Francisco, CA

Avalon at Cedar Ridge




—

—


—



None

None

Some

None

Some

All

None

Yes

No

Yes

None

Avalon at Diamond Heights


—



—

—

—



None

Some

None

None

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Mission Bay North


—



—


—



All

None

Some

None

All

Most

Some

No

Yes

No

Some

Avalon at Nob Hill


—


—

—


—



None

None

None

None

Some

Some

Most

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Foster City




—

—


—



None

None

None

None

Most

All

Some

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon Pacifica




—

—

—

—



None

None

None

Some

Some

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Sunset Towers




—

—


—



None

None

None

None

None

Some

None

No

No

Yes

None

Avalon Towers by the Bay


—


—


—

—



All

None

None

Some

Half

Most

None

No

No

No

None

Crowne Ridge




—

—


—



Some

Some

None

Some

None

All

None

Yes

No

Yes

None


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Washer &

Large

Balcony,

Non-

Homes w/

1 BR

2BR

3BR

dryer

storage or

patio, deck

direct

Direct

pre-wired

Studios /

Parking

hook-ups

Vaulted

walk-in

or

Built-in

access

access

security

1/1.5 BA

1/1.5 BA

2/2.5/3 BA

2/2.5 BA

3BA

efficiencies

Other

Total

spaces

or units

ceilings

Lofts

Fireplaces

closet

sunroom

bookcases

Carports

garages

garages

systems

San Jose, CA

Avalon at Blossom Hill


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

None

Most

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon at Cahill Park


—


—


—

—



All

Some

Some

None

All

Some

None

No

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Creekside



—

—

—


—



None

None

None

Some

None

Most

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon at Foxchase I & II


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

None

None

ALL

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Parkside


—



—

—

—



All

Some

None

Half

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Pruneyard



—

—

—

—

—



All

None

None

None

None

Half

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at River Oaks


—


—

—

—

—



Most

None

None

Most

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Campbell


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

None

All

All

None

Yes

No

No

All

Avalon Mountain View


—



—

—

—



All

Some

None

None

Some

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

Avalon on the Alameda


—


—


—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

All

None

Some

Yes

No

None

Avalon Rosewalk


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

Some

ALL

All

Most

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Silicon Valley


—





—


2,000

All

Some

Some

Some

All

All

Some

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Towers on the Peninsula


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

None

Most

All

None

No

No

Yes

None

CountryBrook


—


—

—

—

—



All

None

None

All

None

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

San Marino


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

None

None

None

All

None

Yes

No

No

None

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Los Angeles, CA

Avalon at Media Center





—


—



Most

Some

None

Some

Some

Some

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Warner Center





—

—

—



All

Some

None

Some

Some

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Camarillo


—

—


—

—

—



All

None

None

None

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

None

Avalon Glendale


—


—


—

—



All

None

Some

Some

All

All

None

No

No

No

All

Avalon Woodland Hills


—


—

—

—

—


1,356

Some

Some

Some

None

Most

All

None

No

No

No

None

The Promenade


—



—

—

—



Some

Some

Some

All

Some

All

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon Del Rey


—

—


—

—

—



All

None

Some

None

All

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Orange County, CA

Avalon at Pacific Bay




—

—

—

—



All

None

None

None

All

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon at South Coast


—


—

—


—



Some

Half

None

None

Half

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Mission Viejo




—

—

—

—



None

None

None

None

None

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Newport



—


—


—



Most

Some

None

Some

Most

Most

Some

Yes

Yes

No

None

Avalon Santa Margarita


—


—

—

—

—



All

None

None

None

None

All

None

Yes

Yes

No

None

San Diego, CA

Avalon at Cortez Hill


—


—

—


—



None

None

None

None

None

All

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Mission Bay




—

—


—



None

None

None

None

Some

All

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Mission Ridge





—

—

—



Most

None

None

Most

Most

Most

Most

No

Yes

No

None


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Washer &

Large

Balcony,

Non-

Homes w/

1 BR

2BR

3BR

dryer

storage or

patio, deck

direct

Direct

pre-wired

Studios /

Parking

hook-ups

Vaulted

walk-in

or

Built-in

access

access

security

1/1.5 BA

1/1.5 BA

2/2.5/3 BA

2/2.5 BA

3BA

efficiencies

Other

Total

spaces

or units

ceilings

Lofts

Fireplaces

closet

sunroom

bookcases

Carports

garages

garages

systems

DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES

Avalon at Decoverly II


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

None

Some

All

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon at Glen Cove North



—

—

—


—



All

None

None

None

All

Some

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon at Lexington Hills


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

All

Some

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Lyndhurst




—

—


—



Most

Some

Some

None

All

Most

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon Acton


—


—

—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Most

Some

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Bowery Place II



—

—

—


—



All

None

None

None

Most

Some

None

No

No

No

None

Avalon Canoga Park


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

None

Most

Most

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Chestnut Hill





—


—



All

None

Some

None

All

All

None

No

No

No

All

Avalon Danvers


—



—

—

—



All

Some

Some

Some

Some

Some

None

No

Yes

Yes

None

Avalon Encino


—


—


—

—



All

Some

None

None

Some

Some

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Meydenbauer





—


—



All

None

None

None

Some

Some

None

No

Yes

Yes

None

Avalon on the Sound II


—



—


—



All

None

None

None

Some

None

None

No

All

None

None

Avalon Riverview North


—


—



—



Some

None

None

None

Some

Some

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Shrewsbury





—

—

—



All

None

Some

None

All

All

None

No

Yes

Yes

None

Avalon Woburn


—


—

—

—

—



All

None

Some

Some

All

Some

None

No

Yes

No

None

Avalon Wilshire


—



—

—

—



All

None

None

None

All

Most

None

No

Yes

No

None


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Community

Building

Buildings w/

entrance

entrance

Under-

Aerobicse

Indoor /

security

controlled

controlled

ground

dance

Picnic

Walking /

Sauna /

Tennis

Fitness

Sand

outdoor

Clubhouse /

Business

systems

access

access

parking

studio

Car wash

area

jogging trail

Pool

whirlpool

court

Racquetball

center

volleyball

basketball

clubroom

center

Tot lot

Concierge

CURRENT COMMUNITIES (1)

NORTHEAST

Boston, MA

Avalon at Bedford Center

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Center Place

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Crane Brook

Some

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Avalon at Faxon Park

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Flanders Hill

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Lexington

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Newton Highlands

All

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Avalon at Prudential Center

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Steven’s Pond

All

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at The Pinehills I

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Essex

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Ledges

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Oaks

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Oaks West

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Orchards

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Summit

None

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon West

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Essex Place

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Fairfield-New Haven, CT

Avalon at Greyrock Place

All

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon Danbury

Some

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Darien

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Gates

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Glen

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon Haven

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Avalon Milford I

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon New Canaan

All

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon on Stamford HaCBor

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon Orange

Some

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Springs

Some

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Valley

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Walk I & II

None

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Long Island, NY

Avalon at Glen Cove South

None

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon Commons

All

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Court

All

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Pines I

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Pines II

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Towers

None

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Community

Building

Buildings w/

entrance

entrance

Under-

Aerobicse

Indoor /

security

controlled

controlled

ground

dance

Picnic

Walking /

Sauna /

Tennis

Fitness

Sand

outdoor

Clubhouse /

Business

systems

access

access

parking

studio

Car wash

area

jogging trail

Pool

whirlpool

court

Racquetball

center

volleyball

basketball

clubroom

center

Tot lot

Concierge

Northern New Jersey

Avalon at Edgewater

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon at Florham Park

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Cove

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Central New Jersey

Avalon at Freehold

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Run

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Avalon Run East

All

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Run East II

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Watch

None

No

Some

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

New York, NY

Avalon Bowery Place I

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon Gardens

Some

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Green

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon on the Sound

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Avalon Riverview I

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon View

Some

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Willow

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

The Avalon

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

MID-ATLANTIC

Baltimore, MD

Avalon at Fairway Hills I & II

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon at Fairway Hills III

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon at Symphony Glen

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Landing

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Southgate Crossing

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Washington, DC

AutumnWoods

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Arlington Square

None

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon at Ballston — Washington Towers

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Cameron Court

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon at Decoverly

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Foxhall

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Gallery Place I

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon at Grosvenor Station

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Avalon at Providence Park

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon at Rock Spring

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon at Traville

None

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon Crescent

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon Fields I & II

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Knoll

None

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Community

Building

Buildings w/

entrance

entrance

Under-

Aerobicse

Indoor /

security

controlled

controlled

ground

dance

Picnic

Walking /

Sauna /

Tennis

Fitness

Sand

outdoor

Clubhouse /

Business

systems

access

access

parking

studio

Car wash

area

jogging trail

Pool

whirlpool

court

Racquetball

center

volleyball

basketball

clubroom

center

Tot lot

Concierge

MIDWEST

Chicago, IL

Avalon at Arlington Heights

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at Danada Farms

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at Stratford Green

All

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at West Grove

None

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

PACIFIC NORTHWEST

Seattle, WA

Avalon at Bear Creek

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Bellevue

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon Belltown

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Brandemoor

All

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon HighGrove

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon ParcSquare

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon Redmond Place

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon RockMeadow

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon WildReed

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Wynhaven

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Oakland-East Bay, CA

Avalon at Union Square

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Willow Creek

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Dublin

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Avalon Fremont I

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Pleasanton

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Waterford

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

San Francisco, CA

Avalon at Cedar Ridge

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at Diamond Heights

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at Mission Bay North

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Nob Hill

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Foster City

Some

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Pacifica

None

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Sunset Towers

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Towers by the Bay

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Crowne Ridge

None

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Community

Building

Buildings w/

entrance

entrance

Under-

Aerobicse

Indoor /

security

controlled

controlled

ground

dance

Picnic

Walking /

Sauna /

Tennis

Fitness

Sand

outdoor

Clubhouse /

Business

systems

access

access

parking

studio

Car wash

area

jogging trail

Pool

whirlpool

court

Racquetball

center

volleyball

basketball

clubroom

center

Tot lot

Concierge

San Jose, CA

Avalon at Blossom Hill

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon at Cahill Park

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon at Creekside

Some

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon at Foxchase I & II

None

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon at Parkside

None

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon at Pruneyard

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon at River Oaks

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Avalon Campbell

None

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Mountain View

None

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon on the Alameda

None

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Rosewalk

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Silicon Valley

Some

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon Towers on the Peninsula

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

CountryBrook

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

San Marino

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Los Angeles, CA

Avalon at Media Center

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Warner Center

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Camarillo

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Glendale

None

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Avalon Woodland Hills

None

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

The Promenade

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon Del Rey

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Orange County, CA

Avalon at Pacific Bay

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Avalon at South Coast

None

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon Mission Viejo

None

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Avalon Newport

None

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Avalon Santa Margarita

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

San Diego, CA

Avalon at Cortez Hill

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon at Mission Bay

None

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Avalon at Mission Ridge

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No


Features and Recreational Amenities — Current and Development Communities

Community

Building

Buildings w/

entrance

entrance

Under-

Aerobicse

Indoor /

security

controlled

controlled

ground

dance

Picnic

Walking /

Sauna /

Tennis

Fitness

Sand

outdoor

Clubhouse /

Business

systems

access

access

parking

studio

Car wash

area

jogging trail

Pool

whirlpool

court

Racquetball

center

volleyball

basketball

clubroom

center

Tot lot

Concierge

DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES

Avalon at Decoverly II

None

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon at Glen Cove North

All

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon at Lexington Hills

Some

No

Some

Some

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Avalon Lyndhurst

All

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Acton

All

Yes

Some

Some

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Bowery Place II

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Avalon Canoga Park

All

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Chestnut Hill

None

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Avalon Danvers

Some

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Avalon Encino

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon Meydenbauer

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

Avalon on the Sound II

All

All

All

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon Riverview North

None

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Avalon Shrewsbury

None

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Woburn

Some

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

Avalon Wilshire

All

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

No

No

(1) For the purpose of this table, Current Communities excludes communities held by unconsolidated real estate joint ventures.


Development Communities

As of December 31, 2006, we had 17 Development Communities under construction. We expect these
Development Communities, when completed, to add a total of 5,153 apartment homes to our portfolio
for a total capitalized cost, including land acquisition costs, of approximately $1,323,300,000.
You should carefully review Item 1a., “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated with
development activity.

The following table presents a summary of the Development Communities. We hold a direct or
indirect fee simple ownership interest in these communities except where noted.

Total

Number of

capitalized

apartment

cost (1)

Construction

Initial

Estimated

Estimated

homes

($ millions)

start

occupancy (2)

completion

stabilization (3)

1.

Avalon Wilshire


$

46.6

Q1 2005

Q1 2007

Q2 2007

Q4 2007

Los Angeles, CA

2.

Avalon Chestnut Hill


60.6

Q2 2005

Q3 2006

Q1 2007

Q3 2007

Chestnut Hill, MA

3.

Avalon at Decoverly II


30.5

Q3 2005

Q2 2006

Q1 2007

Q3 2007

Rockville, MD

4.

Avalon Lyndhurst (4)


78.8

Q3 2005

Q4 2006

Q4 2007

Q2 2008

Lyndhurst, NJ

5.

Avalon Shrewsbury


36.1

Q3 2005

Q2 2006

Q2 2007

Q4 2007

Shrewsbury, MA

6.

Avalon Riverview North


175.6

Q3 2005

Q3 2007

Q3 2008

Q1 2009

New York, NY

7.

Avalon at Glen Cove North


42.4

Q4 2005

Q2 2007

Q3 2007

Q1 2008

Glen Cove, NY

8.

Avalon Danvers


84.8

Q4 2005

Q1 2007

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

Danvers, MA

9.

Avalon Woburn


81.3

Q4 2005

Q3 2006

Q1 2008

Q3 2008

Woburn, MA

10.

Avalon on the Sound II


184.2

Q1 2006

Q3 2007

Q3 2008

Q1 2009

New Rochelle, NY

11.

Avalon Meydenbauer


84.3

Q1 2006

Q4 2007

Q3 2008

Q1 2009

Bellevue, WA

12.

Avalon at Dublin Station I


85.8

Q2 2006

Q3 2007

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

Dublin, CA

13.

Avalon at Lexington Hills


86.2

Q2 2006

Q2 2007

Q3 2008

Q1 2009

Lexington, MA

14.

Avalon Bowery Place II (5)


61.9

Q3 2006

Q4 2007

Q1 2008

Q2 2008

New York, NY

15.

Avalon Encino


61.5

Q3 2006

Q3 2008

Q4 2008

Q1 2009

Los Angeles, CA

16.

Avalon Canoga Park


53.9

Q4 2006

Q1 2008

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

Canoga Park, CA

17.

Avalon Acton (5)


68.8

Q4 2006

Q1 2008

Q4 2008

Q2 2009

Acton, MA

Total

5,153

$

1,323.3

(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to
develop the respective Development Community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including
land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan
fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees.
Total capitalized cost for communities identified as having joint venture ownership, either
during construction or upon construction completion, represents the total projected joint
venture contribution amount.

(2)

Future initial occupancy dates are estimates. There can be no assurance that we will pursue
to completion any or all of these proposed developments.

(3)

Stabilized operations is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% or greater physical
occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development.


(4)

The remediation of our Avalon Lyndhurst development site, as discussed in Note 8,
“Commitment and Contingencies” of the Consolidated Financial Statements included as Item 8
of this report, is substantially complete. The net cost associated with this remediation
effort after considering insurance proceeds received to date, including costs associated
with construction delays, is expected to total approximately $7.5 million. We are pursuing
the recovery of these additional costs through insurance as well as from the third parties
involved, but any additional recoverable amounts are not currently estimable. The total
expected capitalized cost cited above does not reflect the potential impact of these
additional net costs.

(5)

This community is being financed in part by third party, tax-exempt debt.

Redevelopment Communities

As of December 31, 2006, we had three consolidated communities under redevelopment. We expect the
total capitalized cost to redevelop these communities to be $25,800,000, excluding costs prior to
redevelopment. In addition, the Fund has three communities under redevelopment. We have found
that the cost to redevelop an existing apartment community is more difficult to budget and estimate
than the cost to develop a new community. Accordingly, we expect that actual costs may vary from
our budget by a wider range than for a new development community. We cannot assure you that we
will meet our schedule for reconstruction completion or restabilized operations, or that we will
meet our budgeted costs, either individually or in the aggregate. We anticipate increasing our
redevelopment activity related to Fund-owned communities, as well as communities in our current
operating portfolio. You should carefully review Item 1a., “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the
risks associated with redevelopment activity.

The following presents a summary of these Redevelopment Communities:

Total cost

Number of

($ millions)

Estimated

Estimated

apartment

Pre-redevelopment

Total capitalized

Reconstruction

reconstruction

restabilized

homes

cost

cost (1)

start

completion

operations (2)

Consolidated Communities

1. Avalon Arlington Heights

Arlington Heights, IL


$

50.2

$

57.1

Q1 2006

Q1 2007

Q3 2007

2. Avalon
Walk I and II

Hamden, CT


59.4

71.2

Q1 2006

Q4 2007

Q2 2008

3. Avalon at AutumnWoods

Fairfax, VA


31.2

38.3

Q3 2006

Q3 2008

Q1 2009

Subtotal

1,593

$

140.8

$

166.6

Fund Communities

1. Avalon
Redmond

Redmond, WA


$

49.2

$

56.7

Q2 2006

Q4 2007

Q2 2008

2. Civic
Center Place

Norwalk, CA


38.1

43.5

Q4 2006

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

3. Avalon at Poplar Creek

Schaumburg, IL


25.2

28.6

Q4 2006

Q1 2008

Q3 2008

Subtotal


$

112.5

$

128.8

Total

2,381

$

253.3

$

295.4

(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to
develop the respective Redevelopment Community, including land acquisition costs, construction
costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees,
allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees, all as determined in accordance with
GAAP.

(2)

Restabilized operations is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% or greater
physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of redevelopment.


Development Rights

As of December 31, 2006, we are evaluating the future development of 54 new apartment communities
on land that is either owned by us, under contract, subject to a leasehold interest or for which we
hold either a purchase or lease option. We generally hold Development Rights through options to
acquire land, although for 18 of the Development Rights we currently own the land on which a
community would be built if we proceeded with development. The Development Rights range from those
beginning design and architectural planning to those that have completed site plans and drawings
and can begin construction almost immediately. We estimate that the successful completion of all
of these communities would ultimately add 14,185 apartment homes to our portfolio. Substantially
all of these apartment homes will offer features like those offered by the communities we currently
own. At December 31, 2006, there were cumulative capitalized costs (including legal fees, design
fees and related overhead costs, but excluding land costs) of $39,365,000 relating to Development
Rights that we consider probable for future development. In addition, land costs related to the
pursuit of Development Rights (consisting of original land and additional carrying costs) of
$209,568,000 are reflected as land held for development as of December 31, 2006 on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.

The properties comprising the Development Rights are in different stages of the due diligence and
regulatory approval process. The decisions as to which of the Development Rights to invest in, if
any, or to continue to pursue once an investment in a Development Right is made, are business
judgments that we make after we perform financial, demographic and other analyses. In the event
that we do not proceed with a Development Right, we generally would not recover capitalized costs
incurred in the pursuit of those communities, unless we were to recover amounts in connection with
the sale of land; however, we cannot guarantee a recovery. Pre-development costs incurred in the
pursuit of Development Rights for which future development is not yet considered probable are
expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, making future
development no longer probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are written-off with a charge
to expense.

You should carefully review Section 1a., “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated
with Development Rights.


The table below presents a summary of these Development Rights:

Total

Estimated

capitalized

number

cost

Location

of homes

($ millions) (1)

1.

White Plains, NY

(2

)


$


2.

New York, NY



3.

Tinton Falls, NJ



4.

Coram, NY

(2

)



5.

Kirkland, WA Phase II

(2

)



6.

Hingham, MA

(2

)



7.

Northborough, MA



8.

Wilton, CT

(2

)



9.

Union City, CA

(5

)



10.

Andover, MA

(2

)



11.

Norwalk, CT



12.

Sharon, MA



13.

Brooklyn, NY



14.

Pleasant Hill, CA

(4

)



15.

Milford, CT

(2

)



16.

West Haven, CT



17.

Cohasset, MA

(2

)



18.

Quincy, MA

(2

)



19.

West Long Branch, NJ

(3

)



20.

Plymouth, MA Phase II



21.

Shelton, CT



22.

Shelton, CT II



23.

Roselle Park, NJ



24.

Wanaque, NJ



25.

San Francisco, CA



26.

North Bergen, NJ

(3

)



27.

Howell, NJ



28.

Gaithersburg, MD



29.

Highland Park, NJ



30.

Dublin, CA Phase II



31.

Dublin, CA Phase III



32.

Canoga Park, CA



33.

New York, NY II



34.

Camarillo, CA



35.

Bloomingdale, NJ



36.

Greenburgh, NY Phase II



37.

Irvine, CA

(2

)



38.

Stratford, CT

(2

)



39.

Hackensack, NJ



40.

Oyster Bay, NY

(2

)



41.

Saddle Brook, NJ



42.

Oakland, NJ



43.

Randolph, NJ



44.

Irvine, CA II



45.

Garden City, NY



46.

Alexandria, VA

(5

)



47.

Tysons Corner, VA

(5

)



48.

Yonkers, NY



49.

Plainview, NY



50.

Wheaton, MD

(5

)



51.

Yaphank, NY

(2

)



52.

Camarillo, CA II



53.

Rockville, MD

(5

)



54.

Winchester, MA



Total

14,185

$

3,581


Recent Developments

Sales of Existing Communities.

We seek to increase the value of our interests and increase our
presence in selected high barrier-to-entry markets where we believe we can:

•

apply sufficient market and management presence to enhance revenue growth;

•

reduce operating expenses; and

•

leverage management talent.

To achieve this increased value creation and presence, we (i) sell assets that do not meet our
long-term investment strategy or when capital and real estate markets allow us to realize a portion
of the value created over the past business cycle and (ii) redeploy the proceeds from those sales
to develop, redevelop and acquire communities. Pending such redeployment, we will generally use
the proceeds from the sale of these communities to reduce amounts outstanding under our variable
rate unsecured credit facility. On occasion, we will set aside the proceeds from the sale of
communities into a cash escrow account to facilitate a non-taxable, like-kind exchange transaction.
We sold four communities, including one community previously held by a joint venture entity,
containing an aggregate of 1,036 apartment homes, during the period from January 1, 2006 through
January 31, 2007. Net proceeds from the sale of these assets were $218,492,000.


Land Acquisitions

. We select land for development and follow established procedures that we
believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. During 2006, we acquired nine land
parcels for an aggregate purchase price of $91,574,000. The land parcels purchased, which are
currently being developed or are held for future development, are as follows:

Estimated

Total

number

capitalized

Gross

of apartment

cost (1)

Date

Construction

acres

homes

($ millions)

acquired

start (2)

1.

Avalon Cohasset

62.0


$


January 2006


Cohasset,
MA

2.

Avalon Canoga Park

3.3



January 2006


Canoga Park, CA

3.

Avalon Jamboree Village

4.5



May 2006


Irvine, CA

4.

Avalon at Lexington Hills

22.5



June 2006


Lexington, MA

5.

Avalon at Charles Pond (3)

39.0



June 2006


Coram, NY

6.

Avalon at the Hingham Shipyard

12.9



June 2006


Hingham, MA

7.

Avalon at Oyster Bay

5.0



August 2006


Oyster Bay, NY

8.

Avalon Acton (3)

50.3



December 2006


Acton, MA

9.

Avalon White Plains

3.2



December 2006


White Plains, NY

Total

202.7

2,435

$


(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs incurred to date (if any) and projected
to be incurred to develop the respective community, determined in accordance with GAAP,
including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest
and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory
fees.

(2)

Future construction start dates are estimates. There can be no assurance that we will pursue
to completion any or all of these proposed developments.

(3)

Excludes portion of land acquired that is not planned for development

In
addition, in January 2007, we acquired a parcel of land located in
Brooklyn, NY for approximately $70,000,000. We expect to begin
construction of this high-rise community in the second half of 2007.

Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses

We carry commercial general liability insurance and property insurance with respect to all of our
communities. These policies, and other insurance policies we carry, have policy specifications,
insured limits and deductibles that we consider commercially reasonable. There are, however,
certain types of losses (such as losses arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or
in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s
view, economically impractical. You should carefully review the discussion under Item 1a., “Risk
Factors,” for a discussion of risks associated with an uninsured property or liability loss.

Many of our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults.
A large concentration of our communities lies near, and thus is susceptible to, the major fault
lines in California, including the San Andreas Fault and the Hayward Fault. We cannot assure you
that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels. We have in place
with respect to communities located in California, for any single occurrence and in the aggregate,
$75,000,000 of coverage with a deductible per building equal to five percent of the insured value
of that building. The five percent deductible is subject to a minimum of $100,000 per occurrence.
Earthquake coverage outside of California is subject to a $100,000,000 limit, except with respect
to the state of Washington, for which the limit is $65,000,000. Our earthquake insurance outside
of California provides for a


$100,000 deductible per occurrence. In addition, up to a policy
aggregate of $2,000,000, the next $400,000 of loss per occurrence outside California will be
treated as an additional deductible.

We renewed the first $15,000,000 layer of our property insurance policy on May 1, 2006. We renewed
the remaining layers on this policy on December 1, 2006. At that time, we elected to renew most of
these layers so that they will now expire on May 1, 2007, in order to mitigate the risk of cost
escalation and align the renewal date for the upper layers with the renewal date for the primary
layer.

Our annual general liability policy and workman’s compensation coverage renewed on August 1, 2006.
We have completed our negotiations with the incumbent carrier and the insurance coverage provided
for in these renewal policies did not materially change from the preceding year.

Just as with office buildings, transportation systems and government buildings, there have been
reports that apartment communities could become targets of terrorism. In December 2005, Congress
passed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act (“TRIEA”) which is designed to make terrorism
insurance available. In connection with this legislation, we have purchased insurance for property
damage due to terrorism up to $200,000,000. Additionally, we have purchased insurance for certain
terrorist acts, not covered under TRIEA, such as domestic-based terrorism. This insurance, often
referred to as “non-certified” terrorism insurance, is subject to deductibles, limits and
exclusions. Our general liability policy provides TRIEA coverage (subject to deductibles and
insured limits) for liability to third parties that result from terrorist acts at our communities.
TRIEA is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2007. It is uncertain if Congress will extend TRIEA
and continue to provide federal support for terrorism insurance. If Congress does not extend
TRIEA, the cost and availability of terrorism insurance may be in question.

Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials,
particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of
time. If a significant mold problem arises at one of our communities, we could be required to
undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected community
and could be exposed to other liabilities. For further discussion of the risks and the Company’s
related prevention and remediation activities, please refer to the discussion on environmental
contamination. We cannot provide assurance that we will have coverage under our existing policies
for property damage or liability to third parties arising as a result of exposure to mold or a
claim of exposure to mold at one of our communities.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are currently involved in litigation alleging that communities constructed by us violate the
accessibility requirements of the Fair Housing Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act. The
lawsuit, Equal Rights Center v. AvalonBay Communities, Inc., was filed on September 23, 2005 in the
federal district court in Maryland. The plaintiff seeks compensatory and punitive damages in
unspecified amounts as well as injunctive relief (such as modification of existing communities), an
award of attorneys’ fees, expenses and costs of suit. The Company has filed a motion to dismiss
all or parts of the suit, which has not been ruled on yet by the court. Due to the preliminary
nature of the litigation, we cannot predict or determine the outcome of this lawsuit, nor is it
reasonably possible to estimate the amount of loss, if any, that would be associated with an
adverse decision or settlement.

On January 11, 2007, a former leasing consultant of the Company, individually and on behalf of
other leasing consultants allegedly similarly situated, filed suit against the Company in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that the Company did not pay all
leasing consultants overtime as required under the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Company disputes this allegation and
maintains that it has accurately tracked and paid all leasing consultants overtime as required by law. We cannot
predict the outcome of this lawsuit, nor is it reasonably possible at this time to estimate the amount of loss,
if any, that would be associated with an adverse decision.

In addition to the matters described above, we are involved in various other claims and/or
administrative proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. While no assurances
can be given, we do not believe that any of these outstanding litigation matters, individually or
in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of 2006.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES

Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol AVB. The following table sets forth
the quarterly high and low sales prices per share of our common stock for the years 2006 and 2005,
as reported by the NYSE. On January 31, 2007 there were 795 holders of record of an aggregate of
79,344,557 shares of our outstanding common stock. The number of holders does not include
individuals or entities who beneficially own shares but whose shares are held of record by a broker
or clearing agency, but does include each such broker or clearing agency as one record holder.



Sales Price

Dividends

Sales Price

Dividends

High

Low

declared

High

Low

declared

Quarter ended March 31

$

110.45

$

88.95

$

0.78

$

75.59

$

65.18

$

0.71

Quarter ended June 30

$

112.00

$

100.50

$

0.78

$

81.80

$

64.99

$

0.71

Quarter ended September 30

$

125.21

$

110.27

$

0.78

$

88.23

$

78.37

$

0.71

Quarter ended December 31

$

134.60

$

119.31

$

0.78

$

92.99

$

78.82

$

0.71

We expect to continue our policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends. However,
dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend
on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and other factors
as the Board of Directors may consider relevant. The Board of Directors may modify our dividend
policy from time to time. In January 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a
dividend on our common stock for the first quarter of 2007 of $0.85 per share, a 9.0% increase over
the previous quarterly dividend of $0.78 per share. The increased dividend will be payable on
April 16, 2007 to all common stockholders of record as of April 2, 2007.

During the three months ended December 31, 2006, the Company issued (i) 2,287 shares of common
stock in exchange for 2,287 units of limited partnership held by two limited partners of Bay
Countrybrook, L.P., and (ii) 3,235 shares of common stock in exchange for 3,235 limited partnership
units in Avalon DownREIT V, L.P. The shares were issued in reliance on an exemption from
registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. AvalonBay is relying on the
exemption based on factual representations received from the limited partners who received these
shares.


Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

(c)

(d)

Total Number of

Maximum Dollar Amount

(a)

(b)

Shares Purchased

that May Yet be Purchased

Total Number of

Average Price Paid

as Part of Publicly

Under the Plans or

Shares Purchased

per Share

Announced Plans

Programs

Period

(1)

(1)

or Programs (2)

(in thousands) (2)

Month Ended October 31, 2006


$

121.78

—

$

100,000

Month Ended November 30, 2006


$

131.77

—

$

100,000

Month Ended December 31, 2006


$

127.91

—

$

100,000

(1)

Includes shares surrendered to the Company in connection with employee stock option
exercises or vesting of restricted stock as payment of exercise price or as payment of
taxes.

(2)

As disclosed for the first time in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2005, our Board of Directors has adopted a Stock Repurchase Program under which we may
acquire, from time to time, shares of common stock in the open market with an aggregate
purchase price of up to $100,000,000. In 2006 and 2005, no purchases were made (a) under this program, or (b) outside of this program. In determining whether to repurchase shares, we consider a variety of
factors, including our liquidity needs, the then current market price of our shares and
the effect of the share repurchases on our per share earnings and FFO. There is no scheduled
expiration date to this program.

Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is
included in the section entitled “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
and Related Stockholder Matters” on page 69 of this Form 10-K.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following table provides historical consolidated financial, operating and other data for
AvalonBay Communities, Inc. You should read the table with our Consolidated Financial Statements
and the Notes included in this report (dollars in thousands, except per share information).

For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

12-31-02

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

731,041

$

666,376

$

613,240

$

556,582

$

531,595

Management, development and other fees

6,259

4,304



2,145

Total revenue

737,300

670,680

613,844

557,513

533,740

Expenses:

Operating expenses, excluding property taxes

210,895

191,558

181,351

164,253

147,965

Property taxes

68,257

65,487

59,458

53,257

47,580

Interest expense, net

111,046

127,099

131,103

130,178

114,282

Depreciation expense

162,896

158,822

151,991

138,725

121,995

General and administrative expense

24,767

25,761

18,074

14,830

13,449

Impairment loss

—

—

—

—

6,800

Total expenses

577,861

568,727

541,977

501,243

452,071

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

7,455

7,198

1,100

25,535


Venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

—

(1,178

)

(1,688

)

(857

)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

(573

)

(1,481

)

(150

)

(950

)

(865

)

Gain on sale of land

13,519

4,479

1,138

1,234

—

Income from continuing operations before
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

179,840

112,149

72,777

80,401

80,002

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

1,148

14,942

21,134

31,368

44,723

Gain on sale of communities

97,411

195,287

121,287

159,756

48,893

Total discontinued operations

98,559

210,229

142,421

191,124

93,616

Income before cumulative effect of change
in accounting principle

278,399

322,378

215,198

271,525

173,618

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

—

4,547

—

—

Net income

278,399

322,378

219,745

271,525

173,618

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(10,744

)

(17,896

)

Net income available to common stockholders

$

269,699

$

313,678

$

211,045

$

260,781

$

155,722

Per Common Share and Share Information:

Earnings per common share — basic

Income from
continuing operations (net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

2.31

$

1.42

$

0.96

$

1.01

$

0.90

Discontinued operations

$

1.33

$

2.88

$

1.99

$

2.79

$

1.36

Net income available to common stockholders

$

3.64

$

4.30

$

2.95

$

3.80

$

2.26

Weighted average common shares outstanding — basic

74,125,795

72,952,492

71,564,202

68,559,657

68,772,139

Earnings per common share — diluted

Income from
continuing operations (net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

2.27

$

1.40

$

0.96

$

1.00

$

0.89

Discontinued operations

$

1.30

$

2.81

$

1.96

$

2.73

$

1.34

Net income available to common stockholders

$

3.57

$

4.21

$

2.92

$

3.73

$

2.23

Weighted average common shares outstanding — diluted

75,586,898

74,759,318

73,354,956

70,203,467

70,674,211

Cash dividends declared

$

3.12

$

2.84

$

2.80

$

2.80

$

2.80


For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

12-31-02

Other Information:

Net income

$

278,399

$

322,378

$

219,745

$

271,525

$

173,618

Depreciation — continuing operations

162,896

158,822

151,991

138,725

121,995

Depreciation — discontinued operations

—

3,241

10,676

14,380

22,482

Interest expense, net — continuing operations

111,046

127,099

131,103

130,178

114,282

Interest expense, net — discontinued operations

—

—


2,399

3,122

EBITDA(1)

$

552,341

$

611,540

$

514,040

$

557,207

$

435,499

Funds from Operations (2)

$

330,819

$

281,773

$

246,247

$

230,566

$

251,410

Number of Current Communities (3)






Number of apartment homes

43,141

41,412

40,142

38,504

40,179

Balance Sheet Information:

Real estate, before accumulated depreciation

$

6,578,615

$

5,903,168

$

5,697,144

$

5,431,757

$

5,369,453

Total assets

$

5,813,186

$

5,165,060

$

5,081,249

$

4,909,582

$

4,950,835

Notes payable and unsecured credit facilities

$

2,825,586

$

2,334,017

$

2,451,354

$

2,337,817

$

2,471,163

Cash Flow Information:

Net cash flows provided by operating activities

$

351,943

$

306,248

$

275,617

$

239,677

$

307,810

Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities

$

(511,371

)

$

(19,761

)

$

(251,683

)

$

33,935

$

(435,796

)

Net cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities

$

162,280

$

(282,293

)

$

(29,471

)

$

(279,465

)

$

68,008

Notes to Selected Financial Data

(1)

EBITDA is defined as net income before interest income and expense, income taxes,
depreciation and amortization from both continuing and discontinued operations. Under this
definition, EBITDA includes gains on sale of assets and gain on sale of partnership interests.
Management generally considers EBITDA to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income
of our operating performance because it helps investors to understand our ability to incur and
service debt and to make capital expenditures. EBITDA should not be considered as an
alternative to net income (as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, or “GAAP”), as an indicator of our operating performance, or to cash flows from
operating activities (as determined in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of liquidity. Our
calculation of EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA as calculated by other companies.

(2)

We generally consider Funds from Operations, or “FFO,” as defined below, to be an appropriate
supplemental measure of our operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or
losses related to dispositions of previously depreciated property and excluding real estate
depreciation, which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on
historical cost accounting and useful life estimates, FFO can help one compare the operating
performance of a real estate company between periods or as compared to different companies.
We believe that in order to understand our operating results, FFO should be examined with net
income as presented in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive
Income included elsewhere in this report.

(3)

Current Communities consist of all communities other than those which are still under
construction and have not received a certificate of occupancy.


Consistent with the definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts

â

(“NAREIT”), we calculate FFO as net income or loss
computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for:

•

gains or losses on sales of previously depreciated operating communities;

•

extraordinary gains or losses (as defined by GAAP);

•

cumulative effect of change in accounting principle;

•

depreciation of real estate assets; and

•

adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

FFO does not represent net income in accordance with GAAP, and therefore it should not be
considered an alternative to net income, which remains the primary measure, as an indication of
our performance. In addition, FFO as calculated by other REITs may not be comparable to our
calculation of FFO.

FFO also does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP, and
therefore should not be considered an alternative to net cash flows from operating activities, as
determined by GAAP, as a measure of liquidity. Additionally, it is not necessarily indicative of
cash available to fund cash needs. A presentation of GAAP based cash flow metrics is provided in
“Cash Flow Information” in the table on the previous page.

The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO (dollars in thousands, except per share
data):

For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

12-31-02

Net income

$

278,399

$

322,378

$

219,745

$

271,525

$

173,618

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(10,744

)

(17,896

)

Depreciation — real estate assets,
including discontinued operations and
joint venture adjustments

164,749

162,019

157,988

128,278

142,980

Minority interest expense,
including discontinued operations


1,363

3,048

1,263

1,601

Gain on sale of unconsolidated entities
holding previously depreciated real estate assets

(6,609

)

—

—

—

—

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

—

(4,547

)

—

—

Gain on sale of previously depreciated real estate assets

(97,411

)

(195,287

)

(121,287

)

(159,756

)

(48,893

)

Funds from Operations
attributable to common stockholders

$

330,819

$

281,773

$

246,247

$

230,566

$

251,410

Weighted average common shares outstanding — diluted

75,586,898

74,759,318

73,354,956

70,203,467

70,674,211

FFO per common share — diluted

$

4.38

$

3.77

$

3.36

$

3.28

$

3.55


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations (“MD&A”) is
intended to facilitate an understanding of our business and results of operations. This MD&A should
be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. This report, including the
following MD&A, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events or trends as described
more fully under “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 65 of this report. Actual results or
developments could differ materially from those projected in such statements as a result of the
risk factors described in Item 1a, “Risk Factors,” of this report.

Overview

Business Description

We are primarily engaged in developing, acquiring, owning and operating apartment communities in
high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. We seek to create long-term shareholder value
by accessing capital on cost effective terms; deploying that capital to develop, redevelop and
acquire apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets; operating apartment communities;
and selling communities when they no longer meet our long-term investment strategy or when pricing
is attractive.

We believe that apartment communities present an attractive long-term investment opportunity
compared to other real estate investments because a broad potential resident base should help
reduce demand volatility over a real estate cycle. We intend to continue to pursue real estate
investments in markets where constraints to new supply exist, and where new rental household
formations are expected to out-pace multifamily permit activity over the course of the real estate
cycle. Barriers-to-entry in our markets generally include a difficult and lengthy entitlement
process with local jurisdictions and dense urban or suburban areas where zoned and entitled land is
in limited supply.

We regularly evaluate the allocation of our investments by the amount of invested capital and by
product type within our individual markets, which are located in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic,
Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern California regions of the United States. Our
strategy is to more deeply penetrate these markets with a broad range of products and services and
an intense focus on our customer. A substantial majority of our communities are upscale, which
generally command among the highest rents in their markets. However, we also pursue the ownership
and operation of apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and price points,
consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products and services.

We believe that, over an entire real estate cycle, lower housing affordability and the limited new
supply of apartment homes in our markets will result in a higher propensity to rent and larger
revenue and cash flow increases  relative to other markets. However, throughout the real estate cycle,
apartment market fundamentals, and therefore operating cash flows, are affected by overall economic
conditions. A number of our markets experienced economic contraction due to job losses in 2002 and
2003, resulting in a prolonged period of weak apartment market fundamentals (i.e., the ratio of
demand, including from new renter household formations, to supply) as reflected in declining rental
revenue and demand. However, 2004 was a year of transition with apartment fundamentals further
improving in 2005 and 2006. The economic upturn, as evidenced by job growth and declining
unemployment claims, and modest increases in net supply, are contributing to the current strong
apartment market fundamentals.


Financial Highlights and Outlook

Strong
apartment fundamentals in 2006 were evidenced by the year-over-year rental revenue growth of
6.8% achieved within our Established Community portfolio (as defined later in this report) during
the year ended December 31, 2006, comprised of an increase in rental rates of 6.3% and an increase
in occupancy of 0.5%. This revenue growth combined with constrained expense growth contributed to
our Established Community portfolio achieving year-over-year growth in net operating income (“NOI”)
of 9.1% in 2006.
For the fourth quarter of 2006, our Established Communities experienced an increase
in rental revenue of 7.4% and a
corresponding increase in NOI of 10.9% over the prior year period,
our strongest operating performance since 2001.

We expect the positive revenue and net operating income growth of Established Communities
to continue in 2007 but at a more moderate pace. Modest net new supply, low home affordability
and continued but moderating job growth should support favorable
apartment fundamentals. We expect
modest increases in net rental supply in our markets in 2007 that will remain below the national
average. The single-family housing market continues to moderate, such that the increase in home
prices is flat or down and for-sale inventory has increased. However, the current gap between the
cost to rent and the cost to own continues to make rental apartments an economically attractive
housing alternative in our markets. These recent trends increase the likelihood that potential
home buyers will extend the period they rent a home. Finally, we expect that job growth will
continue in our markets, however, at a more modest rate in 2007. Accordingly, we expect apartment
market fundamentals to remain strong in our markets such that apartment rental demand will outpace
new supply. Our current financial outlook provides for rental revenue growth of 5.0% to 6.5% in
our Established Community portfolio in 2007, and projected NOI growth of 5.5% to 7.5%.

In positioning for future growth, we have increased our development activity and our investments in
 Development Rights, as discussed below. We currently have in excess
of $1,300,000,000 under
construction (measured by total projected capitalized cost of the communities at completion,
including the portions in which joint venture partners hold an equity or economic interest). For
2007, we expect additional new development activity to be in the range of $1,000,000,000 to
$1,300,000,000. In addition, we continue to secure new Development Rights, including the
acquisition of land for future development. We currently have Development Rights for construction
of new apartment communities that, based on total projected capitalized cost if developed as
expected, total approximately $3,600,000,000.

We continue to look for opportunities to acquire existing communities through our investment in and
management of a discretionary investment fund (the “Fund”), in which the Company holds an interest
of approximately 15%. During its investment period (which will end on or before March 16, 2008),
the Fund will be our principal vehicle for acquiring apartment communities, subject to certain
exceptions. The Fund acquired five communities for an aggregate purchase price of $223,670,000
during 2006 and has approximately $115,000,000 under contract for acquisition in early 2007. As of
January 31, 2007, the total amount invested by the Fund is $514,000,000. We expect the Fund to
continue to focus on acquisition opportunities where value can be created, generally through
redevelopment, repositioning and market cycle timing opportunities.

Real estate capital flows remain strong, with income investors seeking to acquire existing
apartment communities. As a result, opportunities to realize value
upon disposition have continued to be available. In
2006, we sold four communities (one through a joint venture ) for an
aggregate sales price of $261,850,000 resulting in a gain in accordance with GAAP of
$104,020,000. We expect asset sales of approximately $150,000,000 to $200,000,000 in 2007.

For new
development, the slowing for-sale market has resulted in increased investment opportunities.
We are being selective in pursuing these opportunities, given continued high land prices and
construction costs. In addition, we are seeing greater availability of experienced subcontractors and
development and construction professionals as a result of slowing construction in both the
condominium and single-family housing markets. These positives are somewhat offset by higher
construction and development costs.

Communities Overview

Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities,
communities in various stages of development (“Development Communities”) and Development Rights
(i.e., land or options to purchase land held for development), as further described in Item 2 of
this report.


Our current operating communities are further distinguished as Established
Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities and
Redevelopment Communities. Established Communities are generally operating communities that are
consolidated for financial reporting purposes and were owned and had stabilized occupancy and
operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year, which allows the performance of these
communities and the markets in which they are located to be compared and monitored between years.
Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other operating communities that have stabilized
occupancy and operating expenses during the current year, but had not achieved
stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year. Lease-Up Communities consist of communities
where construction is complete but stabilization has not been achieved. Redevelopment Communities
consist of communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during
the current year. A more detailed description of our reportable segments and other related
operating information can be found in Note 9, “Segment Reporting,” of our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Although each of these categories is important to our business, we generally evaluate overall
operating, industry and market trends based on the operating results of Established Communities,
for which a detailed discussion can be found in “Results of Operations” as part of our discussion
of overall operating results. We evaluate our current and future cash needs and future operating
potential based on acquisition, disposition, development, redevelopment and financing activities
within Other Stabilized, Redevelopment and Development Communities,
and discussions related to these
segments of our business can be found in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”

The net operating income of our current operating communities, as defined later in this report, is
one of the financial measures that we use to evaluate community performance. Net operating income
is affected by the demand and supply dynamics within our markets, our rental rates and occupancy
levels, and our ability to control operating costs. Our overall financial performance is also
impacted by the general availability and cost of capital and the performance of newly developed and
acquired apartment communities.

As of
December 31, 2006, we owned or held a direct or indirect  ownership interest in 167 apartment communities
containing 48,294 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which 17
communities were under construction and six communities were under reconstruction. In addition, we
owned a direct or indirect ownership interest in Development Rights to develop an additional 54
communities that, if developed in the manner expected, will contain an estimated 14,185 apartment
homes.

Critical Accounting Policies

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(“GAAP”) requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including
making estimates and assumptions. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances
relating to various transactions had been different, or different estimates or assumptions had been
made, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied, resulting in
different financial results or a different presentation of our financial statements. Below is a
discussion of a number of accounting policies that we consider critical to an understanding of our
financial condition and operating results that may require complex judgment in their application or
require estimates about matters which are inherently uncertain. A discussion of our significant
accounting policies, including further discussion of the accounting policies described below, can
be found in Note 1, “Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” of our Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Cost Capitalization

We capitalize costs during the development of assets (including interest and related loan fees,
property taxes and other direct and indirect costs) beginning when development efforts commence
until the asset, or a portion of the asset, is delivered and is ready for its intended use, which
is generally indicated by the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. We capitalize costs during
redevelopment of apartment homes (including interest and related loan fees, property taxes and
other direct and indirect costs) beginning when an apartment home is taken out-of-service for
redevelopment until the apartment home redevelopment is completed and the apartment home is
available for a new resident. Rental income and operating expenses incurred during the initial
lease-up or post-redevelopment lease-up period are fully recognized as they accrue.


We capitalize pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of Development Rights for which we
currently believe future development is probable. These costs include legal fees, design fees and
related overhead costs. Future development of these Development Rights is dependent upon various
factors, including zoning and regulatory approval, rental market conditions, construction costs and
availability of capital. Pre-development costs incurred in the pursuit of Development Rights for
which future development is not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In addition, if
the status of a Development Right changes, making future development no longer probable, any
capitalized pre-development costs are written-off with a charge to expense.

We generally capitalize only non-recurring expenditures. We capitalize improvements and upgrades
only if the item: (i) exceeds $15,000; (ii) extends the useful life of the asset; and (iii) is not
related to making an apartment home ready for the next resident. Under this policy,
a significant portion of our
capitalized costs are non-recurring, as recurring make-ready costs are expensed as incurred.
Recurring make-ready costs include: (i) carpet and appliance replacements; (ii) floor coverings;
(iii) interior painting; and (iv) other redecorating costs. Because we expense recurring
make-ready costs, such as carpet replacements, our expense levels and volatility are greatest in
the third quarter of each year as this is when we experience our greatest amount of turnover. We
capitalize purchases of personal property, such as computers and furniture, only if the item is a
new addition and the item exceeds $2,500. We generally expense replacements of personal property.

In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the amounts capitalized (excluding land costs) related to acquisitions,
development and redevelopment were $677,587,000, $425,170,000 and $347,091,000, respectively. For
Established and Other Stabilized Communities, we recorded non-revenue generating capital
expenditures of $18,000,000 or $497 per apartment home in 2006, $16,753,000 or $471 per apartment
home in 2005 and $12,347,000 or $354 per apartment home in 2004. In addition, revenue generating,
or expense saving capital expenditures, such as water sub metering equipment and cable
installations, were $153,000, $817,000 and $637,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
average maintenance costs charged to expense per apartment home, including carpet and appliance
replacements, related to these communities was $1,638 in 2006, $1,546 in 2005 and $1,348 in 2004.
Historically, we have experienced a gradual increase in capitalized costs and expensed maintenance
costs per apartment home as the average age of our communities has
increased. We expect to return to the trend of gradual increases
in maintenance costs in future years.

Asset Impairment Evaluation

We assess the impairment of our investments and long-lived assets whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. For both our consolidated
and unconsolidated entities, factors that could trigger an assessment for impairment include, but
are not limited to: i) underperformance of the asset relative to historical or expected future
operating results, ii) significant change in legal and economic factors, iii) incurrence of costs
significantly in excess of amounts originally forecasted for construction or acquisition of an
asset, or iv) an expectation that a long-lived asset will be disposed of at an amount below the
current carrying value. We evaluate the key factors necessary in the assessment of asset
impairment on a quarterly basis. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, we did not recognize any impairment in
value associated with our investments or long-lived assets. We cannot predict the occurrence of
future events that may cause an impairment assessment to be performed.

REIT Status

We are a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated, for federal income tax purposes, as a
REIT. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (“the Code”), as
amended, for the year ended December 31, 1994 and have not revoked such election. A corporate REIT
is a legal entity which holds real estate interests and must meet a number of organizational and
operational requirements, including a requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its
adjusted taxable income to stockholders. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to corporate
level federal income tax on taxable income if we distribute 100% of taxable income over time
periods allowed under the Code to our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable
year, we will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate rates (subject to any
applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to elect to qualify as a REIT for four
subsequent taxable years.


Results
of Operations

Our year-over-year operating performance is primarily affected by changes in net operating income
of our current operating apartment communities due to market conditions; net operating income
derived from acquisitions and development completions; the loss of net operating income related to
disposed communities; and capital market, disposition and financing activity. A comparison of our
operating results for the years 2006, 2005 and 2004 follows (dollars in thousands):



$ Change

% Change



$ Change

% Change

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

731,041

$

666,376

$

64,665

9.7

%

$

666,376

$

613,240

$

53,136

8.7

%

Management, development and other fees

6,259

4,304

1,955

45.4

%

4,304


3,700

612.6

%

Total revenue

737,300

670,680

66,620

9.9

%

670,680

613,844

56,836

9.3

%

Expenses:

Direct property operating expenses,
excluding property taxes

169,685

155,481

14,204

9.1

%

155,481

148,705

6,776

4.6

%

Property taxes

68,257

65,487

2,770

4.2

%

65,487

59,458

6,029

10.1

%

Total community operating expenses

237,942

220,968

16,974

7.7

%

220,968

208,163

12,805

6.2

%

Corporate-level property management
and other indirect operating expenses

34,177

31,243

2,934

9.4

%

31,243

27,956

3,287

11.8

%

Investments and investment management

7,033

4,834

2,199

45.5

%

4,834

4,690


3.1

%

Interest expense, net

111,046

127,099

(16,053

)

(12.6

%)

127,099

131,103

(4,004

)

(3.1

%)

Depreciation expense

162,896

158,822

4,074

2.6

%

158,822

151,991

6,831

4.5

%

General and administrative expense

24,767

25,761

(994

)

(3.9

%)

25,761

18,074

7,687

42.5

%

Total other expenses

339,919

347,759

(7,840

)

(2.3

%)

347,759

333,814

13,945

4.2

%

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

7,455

7,198


3.6

%

7,198

1,100

6,098

n/a

Venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

—

—

n/a

—

(1,178

)

1,178

(100.0

%)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

(573

)

(1,481

)


(61.3

%)

(1,481

)

(150

)

(1,331

)

n/a

Gain on sale of land

13,519

4,479

9,040

201.8

%

4,479

1,138

3,341

293.6

%

Income from continuing operations before
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

179,840

112,149

67,691

60.4

%

112,149

72,777

39,372

54.1

%

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

1,148

14,942

(13,794

)

(92.3

%)

14,942

21,134

(6,192

)

(29.3

%)

Gain on sale
of communities

97,411

195,287

(97,876

)

(50.1

%)

195,287

121,287

74,000

61.0

%

Total discontinued operations

98,559

210,229

(111,670

)

(53.1

%)

210,229

142,421

67,808

47.6

%

Income before cumulative effect of change
in accounting principle

278,399

322,378

(43,979

)

(13.6

%)

322,378

215,198

107,180

49.8

%

Cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle

—

—

—

n/a

—

4,547

(4,547

)

n/a

Net income

278,399

322,378

(43,979

)

(13.6

%)

322,378

219,745

102,633

46.7

%

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

—

—

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

—

—

Net income available to common stockholders

$

269,699

$

313,678

$

(43,979

)

(14.0

%)

$

313,678

$

211,045

$

102,633

48.6

%

Net
income available to common stockholders

decreased $43,979,000 or
14.0%, to $269,699,000 in 2006.
This decrease is primarily attributable to reduced asset sales and related gains in 2006, partially
offset by growth in net operating income from Established Communities and contributions to net
operating income from newly developed communities. Net income available to common stockholders
increased $102,633,000, or 48.6%, to $313,678,000 in 2005. This increase is primarily attributable
to higher gains on sales of assets in 2005, including the gain related to the sale of a technology
investment, as well as increased net operating income from Established Communities and newly
developed communities.

Net operating income (“NOI”)

is considered by management to be an important and appropriate
supplemental performance measure to net income because it helps both investors and management to
understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any
corporate-level or financing-related costs. NOI reflects the operating performance of a community
and allows for an easy comparison of the operating performance of individual assets or groups of
assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different financing and
overhead structures, with varying marginal impacts to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is
considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of
a real estate asset or group of assets. We define NOI as total property revenue less direct
property operating expenses, including property taxes.


NOI does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP.
Therefore, NOI should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our
performance. NOI should also not be considered an alternative to net cash flow from operating
activities, as determined by GAAP, as a measure of liquidity, nor is NOI necessarily indicative of
cash available to fund cash needs. A calculation of NOI for the years ended December 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, along with a reconciliation to net income for each year, is as follows (dollars in
thousands):

For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

Net income

$

278,399

$

322,378

$

219,745

Indirect operating expenses, net of corporate income

28,809

26,675

26,612

Investments and investment management

7,033

4,834

4,690

Interest expense, net

111,046

127,099

131,103

General and administrative expense

24,767

25,761

18,074

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

(7,455

)

(7,198

)

(1,100

)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

—

—

1,178

Venture
partner interest in profit-sharing


1,481


Depreciation expense

162,896

158,822

151,991

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

—

(4,547

)

Gain on sale of real estate assets

(110,930

)

(199,766

)

(122,425

)

Income from discontinued operations

(1,148

)

(14,942

)

(21,134

)

Net operating income

$

493,990

$

445,144

$

404,337

The NOI increases in both 2006 and 2005 as compared to the prior years, consist of changes in the
following categories (dollars in thousands):



Increase

Increase

Established Communities

$

32,216

$

13,052

Other Stabilized Communities

5,497

3,786

Development and
Redevelopment Communities

11,133

23,969

Total

$

48,846

$

40,807

The NOI increase in Established Communities in 2006 was largely due to the improved apartment
market fundamentals. During 2006, we focused on rental rate growth, while maintaining occupancy of
at least 95% in all regions. We will continue to seek increases in rental rates. However we
anticipate that increases in rental rates and overall rental revenue growth may moderate in 2007,
as we expect continued but moderating job growth (demand) and increased net supply as compared to
recent periods. We expect revenue growth from our Established Communities of 5.0% to 6.5% in 2007
as compared to 2006. In addition, although we will continue to aggressively manage operating
expenses, there is upward pressure on operating expenses from increasing utility, labor, insurance
and property tax expenses. We expect operating expenses at our Established Communities to increase
by 3.5% to 5.0% in 2007 as compared to 2006. Overall, we anticipate growth in NOI from our
Established Communities of 5.5% to 7.5% in 2007 as compared to 2006.

The Company has given projected NOI growth in 2007 only for Established Communities and not on a
company-wide basis. The Company believes that NOI growth of the Established Communities assists
investors in understanding management’s estimate of the likely contribution to operations from
Established Communities.


However, the Company has not provided a projection of NOI growth on a
company-wide basis due to the difficulty in projecting the timing of new development starts,
dispositions and acquisitions, as well as the complexities involved in projecting the allocation of
corporate-level property management overhead, general and administrative costs and interest expense
to communities not yet developed, disposed or acquired. NOI growth expected from Established
Communities is not a projection of the Company’s projected consolidated financial performance or
projected cash flow.

Rental and other income

increased in 2006 due to increased rental rates and occupancy for our
Established Communities, coupled with additional rental income generated from newly developed
communities. We expect the strong apartment fundamentals experienced in 2006 to continue in 2007,
but at a more moderate pace.

Overall Portfolio — The weighted average number of occupied apartment homes increased to
37,716 apartment homes for 2006 as compared to 36,520 apartment homes for 2005 and 34,540
apartment homes for 2004. This change is primarily the result of an increase in the overall
occupancy rate and increased homes available from newly developed and acquired communities,
partially offset by communities sold in 2006 and 2005. The weighted average monthly revenue
per occupied apartment home increased to $1,610 in 2006 as compared to $1,516 in 2005 and
$1,477 in 2004.

Established
Communities - Rental revenue increased $35,871,000, or 6.8%, in 2006 and
increased $16,523,000, or 3.6%, in 2005. The increases in 2006 and 2005 are due to both
increased rental rates and increased economic occupancy as compared to the prior years. For
2006, the weighted average monthly revenue per occupied apartment home increased 6.3% to
$1,647 compared to $1,549 in 2005, primarily due to increased market rents and decreased
concessions. The average economic occupancy increased from 96.0% in 2005 to 96.5% in 2006.
Economic occupancy takes into account the fact that apartment homes of different sizes and
locations within a community have different economic impacts on a community’s gross revenue.
Economic occupancy is defined as gross potential revenue less vacancy loss, as a percentage
of gross potential revenue. Gross potential revenue is determined by valuing occupied homes
at leased rates and vacant homes at market rents. We expect rental revenue from Established
Communities to increase 5.0% to 6.5% in 2007 as compared to 2006.

We experienced increases in Established Communities’ rental revenue in all six of our regions
in 2006 as compared to 2005. The largest increases in rental revenue were in the Pacific
Northwest, the Mid-Atlantic and Northern California, with increases of 10.1%, 8.9% and 8.4%,
respectively, between years. The Northeast and Northern California regions comprise the
majority of our Established Community revenue, and therefore are discussed in more detail
below.

Northern California, which represented approximately 27.4% of Established Community rental
revenue during 2006, experienced an increase in rental revenue of 8.4% in 2006 as compared to
2005. Average rental rates increased by 7.9% to $1,561 in 2006, and economic occupancy
increased 0.5% to 96.7% in 2006. Apartment
fundamentals improved in Northern California in 2006, resulting in accelerated revenue growth
in this region. We expect Northern California to see continued revenue growth in 2007.

The Northeast region, which accounted for approximately 36.5% of Established Community rental
revenue during 2006, experienced an increase in rental revenue of 4.5% in 2006 as compared to
2005. Average rental rates increased 4.4% to $2,032 in 2006 and economic occupancy increased
0.1% to 96.5% during 2006. We expect job growth in 2007 to increase
slightly over the growth levels experienced in 2006 in the Northeast and net
supply to increase. However, we expect overall apartment fundamentals will remain favorable,
resulting in moderate rental rate growth in the Northeast during 2007. The Company believes
that Northern New Jersey will lead the region in revenue growth as a result of the strong
apartment fundamentals in neighboring New York City. We expect Boston, Massachusetts will lag
the region in revenue growth, as economic recovery is not occurring as quickly as in other
areas of the region.

In accordance with GAAP, cash concessions are amortized as an offset to rental revenue over the
approximate lease term, which is generally one year. As a supplemental measure, we also present
rental revenue with concessions stated on a cash basis to help investors evaluate the impact of
both current and historical concessions on GAAP based rental revenue and to more readily enable
comparisons to revenue as reported by other companies.


Rental revenue with concessions stated on a
cash basis also allows investors to understand historical trends in cash concessions, as well as
current rental market conditions.

The following table reconciles total rental revenue in conformity with GAAP to total rental revenue
adjusted to state concessions on a cash basis for our Established Communities for the years ended
December 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands). Information for the year ended December 31,
2004 is not presented, as Established Community classification is not comparable prior to January
1, 2005. See Note 9, “Segment Reporting,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

Rental revenue (GAAP basis)

$

559,771

$

523,900

Concessions amortized

11,082

20,010

Concessions granted

(5,796

)

(17,399

)

Rental revenue adjusted to state
concessions on a cash basis

$

565,057

$

526,511

Year-over-year % change — GAAP revenue

6.8

%

n/a

Year-over-year % change — cash
concession based revenue

7.3

%

n/a

Management, development and other fees

increased in 2006 and 2005 due to increased asset
management, property management and redevelopment fees earned from the Fund. The Fund was formed
in March 2005, and continues to grow through purchases, acquiring five more communities in 2006.
In addition, construction and development fees earned from unconsolidated entities in 2006 and
2005 contributed to increased fee income.

Direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes

increased in both 2006 and 2005,
primarily due to the addition of recently developed and acquired apartment homes coupled with
expense growth in our Established Communities.

For Established Communities, direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes,
increased $3,088,000, or 2.6%, to $120,487,000 in 2006 due primarily
to increases in payroll, maintenance and
utility costs, partially offset by decreases
in marketing and office and administration expenses. During 2005, direct property operating expenses
increased $965,000, or 0.9%, to $104,346,000 in 2005 due primarily to increases in utility,
maintenance and payroll costs, partially offset by decreases in marketing and bad debt
expenses. We expect operating expenses for Established Communities to increase by 3.5% to 5.0%
in 2007 as compared to 2006, primarily as a result of continued higher utility and
 payroll costs, as well as increased insurance costs.

Property taxes

increased in both 2006 and 2005 due to overall higher assessments and the
addition of newly developed and redeveloped apartment homes, and are impacted by the size and
timing of successful tax appeals in both years.

For
Established Communities, property taxes increased by $721,000, or
1.4%, in 2006 and
$2,527,000, or 5.7%, in 2005, due to overall higher assessments throughout all regions and are
impacted by the size and timing of successful tax appeals in both years. We expect property
taxes to continue to increase in 2007 as compared to 2006 to reflect
increased valuations. However, property tax increases are mitigated
for communities in California, where increases in property taxes are limited by law
(Proposition 13). We evaluate property tax increases internally, as well as engage third-party
consultants, and appeal increases when appropriate.

Corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses

increased in both 2006
and 2005 due to increased compensation, as well as increased costs relating to corporate
initiatives focused on increasing efficiency and enhancing controls at our operating communities.


Investments and investment management

reflects the costs incurred related to investment
acquisitions, investment management and abandoned pursuit costs, which include costs incurred on
development pursuits not yet considered probable for development, as well as the abandonment or
impairment of development pursuits, acquisition pursuits and disposition pursuits. Investments and
investment management increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due primarily to increased compensation
costs and increased staffing related to management of the Fund redevelopment activity, coupled with
an increase in abandoned pursuit costs. Abandoned pursuit costs were $2,115,000 in 2006, $816,000
in 2005 and $1,726,000 in 2004. Abandoned pursuit costs can be volatile, and the costs incurred in
any given period may vary significantly in future years.

Interest expense, net

decreased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due primarily to higher levels of
capitalized interest in connection with our increased development activity, lower average
outstanding balances on our unsecured credit facility and increased interest income. In addition,
through a maturity and the subsequent issuance of unsecured notes, we reduced the effective annual
interest rate on $150,000,000 of debt by approximately 1%. These decreases in interest expense are
partially offset by higher interest rates on variable rate debt in 2006 and the timing of the
repayment and re-issuance of unsecured debt in 2005. Interest income increased in 2006 due to
higher invested cash balances as well as increases in the interest rate earned on cash deposits.
In addition, interest income in 2006 includes interest earned on an escrow funded from a
disposition in 2005 that was used in a tax-deferred exchange.

Depreciation
expense

increased in both 2006 and 2005 primarily due to the completion of development
and redevelopment activities, coupled with the timing of depreciation expense for a community
previously classified as held for sale.

General and administrative expense

(“G&A”) decreased in 2006 and increased in 2005 relative to the
prior years primarily due to the incurrence in 2005 of the following: (i) separation costs of
approximately $2,100,000 due to the departure of a senior executive; (ii) the accrual of costs
related to various litigation matters of approximately $1,500,000; and (iii) increased board of
director fees due to the acceleration of equity awards with the resignation of a director due to
disability in 2005, partially offset by higher compensation costs in 2006. We expect expensed
overhead costs, including G&A, corporate-level property management and investments and investment
management, to increase approximately 6.0% to 7.5% in 2007 as compared to 2006 in support of the
Company’s continued growth.

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

in 2006 includes our share of gain on the sale of a
joint venture community in the amount of $6,609,000, and the release
of amounts previously withheld in escrow
allowing recognition of the final installment of the gain from the sale of our investment in
Rent.com to eBay in the amount of $433,000. Equity in income of unconsolidated entities in 2005
includes the initial gain recognized in the amount of $6,252,000 related to the sale of our
investment in Rent.com to eBay.

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

decreased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due to the
conversion of limited partnership units, thereby reducing outside ownership interests and the
allocation of net income to outside ownership interests. However, minority interest increased in
2005 due to the consolidation of an entity under FASB Interpretation No. 46
(“FIN 46”), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51,” as
revised in December 2003. Effective January 1, 2004, we consolidated an entity from which we held
a participating mortgage note in accordance with FIN 46. We did not hold an equity interest in
this entity, and therefore 100% of the entity’s net loss was recognized as minority interest in
consolidated partnerships during the year ended December 31, 2004. In October 2004, we received
payment in full of the outstanding mortgage note due from this entity. Upon repayment of the
mortgage note, our economic interest in this entity ended, and
therefore we discontinued consolidation as this entity was no longer
considered a variable interest entity under FIN 46.

Gain on sale of land

in 2006 represents the gain on sale of three land parcels located in Danvers,
Massachusetts, Jersey City, New Jersey and Stamford, Connecticut. During 2005, we sold three land
parcels, one located in Dublin, California, one in Madison, Washington, and one in Freehold, New
Jersey.


Income from discontinued operations

represents the net income generated by communities sold during
the period from January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006. See Note 7, “Real Estate Disposition
Activities,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The
decreases in 2006 and 2005 are due to the sale of
three consolidated communities in 2006, seven communities and one office building in
2005 and five communities in 2004, eliminating the income generated
from the assets upon disposition.

Gain on sale of real estate assets

decreased in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to the
volume and size of dispositions, coupled with the carrying value of the communities sold. Gain on
sale of real estate assets increased in 2005 and decreased in 2004 due to the volume and size of
dispositions in each year. The amount of gain realized in any given reporting period depends on
many factors, including the number of communities sold, the size and carrying value of those
communities and the sales price, which are driven by local and national market conditions.

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

in 2004 is a result of the implementation of
FIN 46, discussed above, and represents the difference between the net assets consolidated under
FIN 46 and the previously recorded net assets.

Funds from Operations Attributable to Common Stockholders (“FFO”)

FFO is considered by management to be an appropriate supplemental measure of our operating and
financial performance. In calculating FFO, we exclude gains or losses related to dispositions of
previously depreciated property and exclude real estate depreciation. These amounts are generally
excluded in the industry definition of FFO as amounts can vary among owners of identical assets in
similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates. FFO can help one
compare the operating performance of a real estate company between periods or as compared to
different companies. We believe that in order to understand our operating results, FFO should be
examined with net income as presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. For a more
detailed discussion and presentation of FFO, see “Selected Financial Data,” included in Item 6 of
this report.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Factors affecting our liquidity and capital resources are our cash flows from operations, financing
activities and investing activities, as well as general economic and market conditions. Operating
cash flow has historically been determined by: (i) the number of apartment homes currently owned,
(ii) rental rates, (iii) occupancy levels and (iv) operating expenses with respect to apartment
homes. The timing, source and amount of cash flows provided by financing activities and used in
investing activities are sensitive to the capital markets environment, particularly to changes in
interest rates. The timing and type of capital markets activity in which we engage, as well as our
plans for development, redevelopment, acquisition and disposition activity, are affected by changes
in the capital markets environment, such as changes in interest rates or the availability of
cost-effective capital.

We regularly review our liquidity needs, the adequacy of cash flows from operations, and other
expected liquidity sources to meet these needs. We believe our principal short-term liquidity
needs are to fund:

We anticipate that we can fully satisfy these needs from a combination of cash flow provided by
operating activities, proceeds from asset dispositions and borrowing capacity under our variable
rate unsecured credit facility, as well as other public or private sources of liquidity.


Cash and cash equivalents totaled $8,567,000 at December 31, 2006, an increase of $2,852,000 from
$5,715,000 at December 31, 2005. The following discussion relates to changes in cash due to
operating, investing and financing activities, which are presented in our Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows included elsewhere in this report.

Operating
Activities – Net cash provided by operating activities increased
to $351,943,000 in
2006 from $306,248,000 in 2005. The increase was driven primarily by the additional NOI from
our Established Communities’ operations, as well as NOI from recently developed communities,
partially offset by the loss of NOI from the four communities sold in 2006, as discussed earlier
in this report.

Investing
Activities – Net cash used in investing activities of
$511,371,000 in 2006 related to
investments in assets through the development redevelopment and
acquisition of apartment
communities, partially offset by proceeds from asset dispositions. During 2006, we invested
$832,337,000 in the purchase and development of the following real estate and capital
expenditures:

•

We began the development of eight new communities. These eight communities, if
developed as expected, will contain a total of 2,459 apartment homes, and the total
capitalized cost, including land acquisition costs, is projected to be approximately
$686,600,000. We completed the development of six communities containing a total of 1,368
apartment homes for a total capitalized cost, including land acquisition cost, of
$375,200,000.

•

We began the redevelopment of three consolidated communities, which contain an aggregate
of 1,593 apartment homes and, if redeveloped as expected, will be completed for a total
redevelopment capitalized cost of $25,800,000, excluding costs incurred prior to
redevelopment. We completed the redevelopment of one consolidated community containing 336
apartment homes for a total capitalized cost of $6,000,000, excluding costs incurred prior
to redevelopment.

•

We acquired nine parcels of land in connection with Development Rights, for an aggregate
purchase price of $91,574,000

.

•

We had capital expenditures relating to current communities’ real estate assets of
$21,289,000 and non-real estate capital expenditures of $957,000.

We disposed of four
communities (one through a joint venture) for an aggregate sales
price of $261,850,000 and a total gain in accordance with GAAP of
$104,020,000. We also disposed of three parcels of land for an aggregate sales price of $19,635,000
and a total gain in accordance with GAAP of $13,519,000. In addition,
we received proceeds in the amount of $20,482,000 from the sale of a
70% interest in our investments in Avalon Del Rey Apartments, LLC.
For further discussion See Note 6, “Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities,” included in Item 8 of this report.

Financing Activities – Net cash provided
by financing activities totaled $162,280,000 in 2006.
The net cash inflow is due primarily to the proceeds from $500,000,000 of unsecured notes that we
issued in September 2006, partially offset by the $150,000,000 of unsecured notes that was repaid upon
maturity in July 2006. In addition, net cash provided by financing activities includes the
issuance of common stock for option exercises and the issuance of
secured mortgage loans,
partially offset by dividends paid and repayment of borrowings under our unsecured credit
facility. See Note 3, “Notes Payable, Unsecured Notes and Credit Facility,” and Note 4,
“Stockholders’ Equity,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional
information.

Variable Rate Unsecured Credit Facility

We entered into a $650,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility with a syndicate
of commercial banks. JPMorgan Chase Bank, Wachovia Bank, N.A. and
Bank of America, N.A. led the
syndication effort in varying capacities. Under the terms of the credit facility, we may elect to
increase the facility up to $1,000,000,000, provided that one or more banks (from the syndicate or
otherwise) voluntarily agree to provide the additional commitment. No member of the syndicate of
banks can prohibit such an increase; such an increase in the facility will only be effective to the
extent banks (from the syndicate or otherwise) choose to commit to lend additional funds. We pay
participating banks, in the aggregate, an annual facility fee of approximately $813,000. The
unsecured credit facility bears interest at varying levels based on the London Interbank Offered
Rate (“LIBOR”), our credit rating and on a maturity schedule selected by us. The current stated
pricing is LIBOR plus 0.40% per annum (5.72% on January 31, 2007).


The spread over LIBOR can vary
from LIBOR plus 0.325% to LIBOR plus 1.00% based on our credit rating. In addition, a competitive
bid option is available for borrowings of up to $422,500,000. This option allows banks that are
part of the lender
consortium to bid to provide us loans at a rate that is lower than the stated pricing provided by
the unsecured credit facility. The competitive bid option may result in lower pricing if market
conditions allow. We had no outstanding balance under this competitive bid option at January 31,
2007. We are subject to certain customary covenants under the unsecured credit facility,
including, but not limited to, maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios, a minimum fixed charges
coverage ratio and minimum unencumbered assets and equity levels. The credit facility matures in
November 2011, assuming our exercise of a one-year renewal option. At January 31, 2007, no amounts
were outstanding on the credit facility, $38,088,000

was used to provide letters of credit and $611,912,000 was available for borrowing under the
unsecured credit facility.

Future Financing and Capital Needs – Debt Maturities

One of our principal long-term liquidity needs is the repayment of long-term debt at the time that
such debt matures. For unsecured notes, we anticipate that no significant portion of the principal
of these notes will be repaid prior to maturity. If we do not have funds on hand sufficient to
repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, it will be necessary for us to refinance the debt. This
refinancing may be accomplished by uncollateralized private or public debt offerings, additional
debt financing that is collateralized by mortgages on individual communities or groups of
communities, draws on our unsecured credit facility or by additional equity offerings. Although we
believe we will have the capacity to meet our long-term liquidity needs, we cannot assure you that
additional debt financing or debt or equity offerings will be available or, if available, that they
will be on terms we consider satisfactory.

The following debt activity occurred during the year ended December 31, 2006:

In January 2007, the Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, allowing us to sell an undetermined number or amount of certain debt and equity
securities as defined in the prospectus. In addition, in
January 2007, in conjunction with the
inclusion of our common stock in the S&P 500 Index, we issued 4,600,000 shares of our common stock
at $129.30 per share. Net proceeds of approximately $594,000,000 will be used for
general corporate purposes.


The table below details debt maturities for the next five years, excluding our unsecured credit
facility, for debt outstanding at December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands).

All-In

Principal

interest

maturity

Balance outstanding

Scheduled maturities

Community

rate (1)

date

12-31-05

12-31-06






Thereafter

Tax-exempt bonds

Fixed rate

CountryBrook

6.30

%

Mar-2012

$

16,586

$

15,990

$


$


$


$


$


$

12,379

Avalon at Symphony Glen

4.90

%

Jul-2024

9,780

9,780

—

—

—

—

—

9,780

Avalon View

7.55

%

Aug-2024

16,465

15,980






13,000

Avalon at Lexington

6.55

%

Feb-2025

12,834

12,467






10,277

Avalon at Nob Hill

5.80

%

Jun-2025

18,494

18,116

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

18,116

Avalon Campbell

6.48

%

Jun-2025

33,614

32,776

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

32,776

Avalon Pacifica

6.48

%

Jun-2025

15,247

14,867

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

14,867

Avalon Knoll

6.95

%

Jun-2026

12,239

11,957






10,215

Avalon Landing

6.85

%

Jun-2026

6,044

5,903






5,032

Avalon Fields

7.55

%

May-2027

10,705

10,483






9,104

Avalon West

7.73

%

Dec-2036

8,259

8,179






7,681

Avalon Oaks

7.45

%

Jul-2041

17,324

17,205






16,467

Avalon Oaks West

7.48

%

Apr-2043

17,145

17,036






16,367

194,736

190,739

2,546

2,741

2,928

3,125

3,338

176,061

Variable rate

(3)

The Promenade

5.68

%

Oct-2010

32,100

31,495




29,388

—

—

Waterford

4.27

%

Jul-2014

33,100

33,100

(4)

—

—

—

—

—

33,100

Avalon at Mountain View

4.27

%

Feb-2017

18,300

18,300

(4)

—

—

—

—

—

18,300

Avalon at Foxchase I

4.27

%

Nov-2017

16,800

16,800

(4)

—

—

—

—

—

16,800

Avalon at Foxchase II

4.27

%

Nov-2017

9,600

9,600

(4)

—

—

—

—

—

9,600

Avalon at Mission Viejo

4.82

%

Jun-2025

7,635

7,635

(4)

—

—

—

—

—

7,635

Avalon at Nob Hill

3.65

%

Jun-2025

2,306

2,684

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

2,684

Avalon Campbell

3.65

%

Jun-2025

5,186

6,024

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

6,024

Avalon Pacifica

3.65

%

Jun-2025

2,353

2,733

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

2,733

Bowery Place I

4.16

%

Nov-2037

—

93,800

(5)

—





91,364

Bowery Place II

4.23

%

Nov-2039

—

48,500

(5)

—

—

—



47,932

Avalon Acton

4.96

%

Jul-2040

—

45,000

(5)

—

—

—

—

—

45,000

Avalon at Fairway Hills I

4.91

%

Jun-2026

11,500

11,500

—

—

—

—

—

11,500

138,880

327,171


1,222

1,331

30,294

1,001

292,672

Conventional loans (6)

Fixed rate

$150 million unsecured notes

6.93

%

Jul-2006

150,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

$150 million unsecured notes

5.18

%

Aug-2007

150,000

150,000

150,000

—

—

—

—

—

$110 million unsecured notes

7.13

%

Dec-2007

110,000

110,000

110,000

—

—

—

—

—

$50 million unsecured notes

6.63

%

Jan-2008

50,000

50,000

—

50,000

—

—

—

—

$150 million unsecured notes

8.38

%

Jul-2008

150,000

146,000

—

146,000

—

—

—

—

$150 million unsecured notes

7.63

%

Aug-2009

150,000

150,000

—

—

150,000

—

—

—

$200 million unsecured notes

7.66

%

Dec-2010

200,000

200,000

—

—

—

200,000

—

—

$300 million unsecured notes

6.79

%

Sep-2011

300,000

300,000

—

—

—

—

300,000

—

$50 million unsecured notes

6.31

%

Sep-2011

50,000

50,000

—

—

—

—

50,000

—

$250 million unsecured notes

6.26

%

Nov-2012

250,000

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

250,000

$100 million unsecured notes

5.11

%

Mar-2013

100,000

100,000

—

—

—

—

—

100,000

$150 million unsecured notes

5.52

%

Apr-2014

150,000

150,000

—

—

—

—

—

150,000

$250 million unsecured notes

5.88

%

Jan-2012

—

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

250,000

$250 million unsecured notes

5.72

%

Sep-2016

—

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

250,000

Wheaton Development Right

6.99

%

Oct-2008

4,589

4,513


4,432

—

—

—

—

Eisenhower Ave. Development
Right

8.08

%

Apr-2009

4,504

4,402



4,175

—

—

—

Twinbrook Development Right

7.25

%

Oct-2011

8,379

8,200





7,339

—

Tysons West Development Right

5.55

%

Jul-2028

6,681

6,535






5,668

Avalon Orchards

7.65

%

Jul-2033

20,136

19,883






18,320

1,854,289

2,199,533

260,811

201,209

154,881

200,755

357,889

1,023,988

Variable rate

(3)

Avalon Ledges

6.75

%

May-2009

19,290

18,635

(4)



17,136

—

—

—

Avalon at Flanders Hill

6.75

%

May-2009

21,935

21,245

(4)



19,535

—

—

—

Avalon at Newton Highlands

6.69

%

Dec-2009

38,905

37,650

(4)

1,546

1,397

34,707

—

—

—

Avalon at Crane Brook

6.66

%

Mar-2011

—

33,535

(4)

1,230

1,045

1,106

1,169

28,985

—

80,130

111,065

4,513

3,914

72,484

1,169

28,985

—

Total indebtedness — excluding unsecured
credit facility

$

2,268,035

$

2,828,508

$

268,521

$

209,086

$

231,624

$

235,343

$

391,213

$

1,492,721

(1)

Includes credit enhancement fees, facility fees, trustees’ fees and other fees.

(2)

Financed by variable rate, tax-exempt debt, but the interest rate on a portion of this debt
is effectively fixed at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 through a swap agreement. The
portion of the debt fixed through a swap agreement decreases (and therefore the variable
portion of the debt increases) monthly as payments are made to a principal reserve fund.

(3)

Variable rates are given as of December 31, 2006.

(4)

Financed by variable rate debt, but interest rate is capped through an interest rate
protection agreement.

(5)

Represents full amount of the debt as of December 31, 2006. Actual amounts drawn on the debt
as of December 31, 2006 are $79,849 for Bowery Place I and $0 for both Bowery Place II and
Avalon Acton.

(6)

Balances outstanding represent total amounts due at maturity, and are not net of $2,922 and
$818 of debt discount as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively, as
reflected in unsecured notes on our Consolidated Balance Sheets included elsewhere in this
report.


Future Financing and Capital Needs – Portfolio and Other Activity

As of December 31, 2006, we had 17 new communities under construction, for which a total estimated
cost of $639,458,000 remained to be invested. In addition, we had six
communities which we own, or in which we have a direct or indirect
interest, under
reconstruction, for which a total estimated cost of $13,791,000 remained to be invested.
Substantially all of the capital expenditures necessary to complete the communities currently under
construction and reconstruction, as well as development costs related to pursuing Development
Rights, will be funded from:

Before planned reconstruction activity, including reconstruction activity related to communities
acquired by the Fund as discussed below, or the construction of a Development Right begins, we
intend to arrange adequate financing to complete these undertakings, although we cannot assure you
that we will be able to obtain such financing. In the event that financing cannot be obtained, we
may have to abandon Development Rights, write-off associated pre-development costs that were
capitalized and/or forego reconstruction activity. In such instances, we will not realize the
increased revenues and earnings that we expected from such Development Rights or reconstruction
activity and significant losses could be incurred.

We have invested in the Fund, a private, discretionary investment vehicle that acquires and
operates apartment communities in our markets. The Fund will serve, until March 16, 2008 or until
80% of its committed capital is invested, as the principal vehicle through which we will invest in
the acquisition of apartment communities, subject to certain exceptions. These exceptions include
significant individual asset and portfolio acquisitions, properties acquired in tax-deferred
transactions and acquisitions that are inadvisable or inappropriate for the Fund. The Fund will
not restrict our development activities, and will terminate after a term of eight years, subject to
two one-year extensions. The Fund has nine institutional investors,
including us, with a combined equity
capital commitment of $330,000,000. A significant portion of the investments made in the Fund by
its investors are being made through AvalonBay Value Added Fund, Inc., a Maryland corporation that
qualifies as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the “Fund REIT”). A wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company is the general partner of the Fund and has committed $50,000,000 to the
Fund and the Fund REIT (of which approximately $22,944,000 has been invested as of January 31,
2007) representing a 15.2% combined general partner and limited partner equity interest. Under the
Fund documents, the Fund has the ability to employ leverage through debt financings up to 65% on a
portfolio basis, which, if achieved, would enable the Fund to invest up to $940,000,000 (of which
approximately $514,000,000 has been invested as of January 31, 2007). We currently expect that
leverage of less than 65% will be employed, reducing the projected investment value to between
$850,000,000 and $900,000,000.

From time to time we use joint ventures to hold or develop individual real estate assets. We
generally employ joint ventures primarily to mitigate asset concentration or market risk or
secondarily as a source of liquidity. We may also use joint ventures related to mixed-use land
development opportunities where our partners bring development and operational expertise to the
venture. Each joint venture or partnership agreement has been and will continue to be individually
negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be
limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture or partnership agreement.
However, we cannot assure you that we will achieve our objectives through joint ventures.


In evaluating our allocation of capital within our markets, we sell assets that do not meet our
long-term investment criteria or when capital and real estate markets allow us to realize a portion
of the value created over the past business cycle and redeploy the proceeds from those sales to
develop and redevelop communities. In response to real estate and capital markets conditions, we
sold four communities, including an investment held in a joint venture, with net proceeds in the
aggregate of approximately $218,492,000 from January 1, 2006 through January 31, 2007. Because the
proceeds from the sale of communities may not be immediately redeployed into revenue generating
assets, the immediate effect of a sale of a community for a gain is to increase net income, but
reduce future total revenues, total expenses and NOI. However, we believe that the absence of
future cash flows from communities sold will have a minimal impact on our ability to fund future
liquidity and capital resource needs.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

In
addition to the investment interests in consolidated and
unconsolidated real estate entities, we have certain off balance
sheet arrangements with the entities in which we invest. Additional discussion of these entities
can be found in Note 6, “Investments in Unconsolidated
Entities,” and Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” of our Consolidated Financial
Statements located elsewhere in this report.

•

CVP I, LLC

– CVP I, LLC has outstanding
tax-exempt, variable rate bonds maturing in
November 2036 in the amount of $117,000,000, which have permanent credit enhancement. We
have agreed to guarantee, under limited circumstances, the repayment to the credit enhancer
of any advances it may make in fulfillment of CVP I, LLC’s repayment obligations under the
bonds. We have also guaranteed to the credit enhancer that CVP I, LLC will obtain a final
certificate of occupancy for the project (Chrystie Place in New York City) overall once
tenant improvements related to a retail tenant are complete, which is expected in 2007.
Our 80% partner in this venture has agreed that it will reimburse us its pro rata share of
any amounts paid relative to these guaranteed obligations. The estimated
fair value of, and our obligation under these guarantees, both at
inception and as of December 31, 2006 were not significant. As a
result we have not recorded any obligation associated with these
guarantees at December 31, 2006.

•

MVP I, LLC

– MVP I, LLC has a construction loan in the amount of $94,400,000 (of which
$76,739,000 is outstanding as of December 31, 2006), which matures in September 2010,
assuming exercise of two one-year renewal options, and is payable by the unconsolidated
real estate entity. In connection with the construction management services that we
provided to MVP I, LLC, the entity that owns and developed Avalon at Mission Bay North II
in San Francisco, we have provided a construction completion guarantee to the lender in
order to fulfill their standard financing requirements related to the construction
financing. Construction was completed in 2006, and our obligations under this guarantee
will terminate once all of the lender’s standard completion requirements have been
satisfied, which we currently expect to occur in 2007. The estimated
fair value of and our obligation under this guarantee, both at
inception and as of December 31, 2006 was not significant and
therefore no liability has been recorded
related to this construction completion guarantee as of December 31, 2006.

•

The Fund

– The Fund has 12 mortgage loans with amounts outstanding in the aggregate of
$259,645,000. These mortgage loans have varying maturity dates (or dates after which the
loans can be prepaid), ranging from February 2007 to October 2014. These mortgage loans
are secured by the underlying real estate. In addition, the Fund has a credit facility
with $57,400,000 outstanding as of December 31, 2006, which matures in January 2008. The
mortgage loans and the credit facility are payable by the Fund with operating cash flow
from the underlying real estate, and the credit facility is secured by capital commitments.
We have not guaranteed the debt of the Fund, nor do we have any obligation to fund this
debt should the Fund be unable to do so.


In addition, as part of the formation of the Fund, we have provided to one of the limited
partners a guarantee. The guarantee provides that if, upon final liquidation of the Fund,
the total amount of all distributions to that partner during the life of the Fund (whether
from operating cash flow or property sales) does not equal a minimum of the total capital
contributions made by that partner, then we will pay the partner an amount equal to the
shortfall, but in no event more than 10% of the total capital contributions made by the
partner (maximum of approximately $3,400,000 as of December 31, 2006). As of December 31,
2006, the fair value of the real estate assets owned by the Fund is considered adequate to
cover such potential payment to that partner under a liquidation
scenario. The estimated fair value of, and our obligation under this
guarantee, both at inception and as of December 31, 2006 was not
significant and therefore we have not recorded any obligation for this
guarantee as of December 31, 2006.

•

PHVP I, LLC

– In connection with the pursuit of a Development Right in Pleasant Hill,
California, $125,000,000 in bond financing was issued by the Contra Costa County
Redevelopment Agency (the “Agency”) in connection with the possible future construction of
a multifamily rental community by PHVP I, LLC. The bond proceeds were immediately invested
in their entirety in a guaranteed investment contract (“GIC”) administered by a trustee.
This Development Right is planned as a mixed-use development, with residential, for-sale,
retail and office components. The bond proceeds will remain in the GIC until at least June
1, 2007, but no later than December 5, 2007, at which time a loan will be made to PHVP I,
LLC to fund construction of the multifamily portion of the development, or the bonds will
be redeemed by the Agency. Although we do not have any equity or economic interest in PHVP
I, LLC at this time, we do have an option to make a capital contribution to PHVP I, LLC in
exchange for a 99% general partner interest in the entity. Should we decide not to
exercise this option, the bonds will be redeemed, and a loan will not be made to PHVP I,
LLC. The bonds are payable from the proceeds of the GIC and are non-recourse to both PHVP
I, LLC and to us. There is no loan payable outstanding by PHVP I, LLC as of December 31,
2006.

In addition, as part of providing construction management services to PHVP I, LLC for the
construction of a public garage, we have provided a construction completion guarantee to the
related lender in order to fulfill their standard financing requirements related to the
garage construction financing. Our obligations under this guarantee will terminate
following construction completion of the garage once all of the lender’s standard completion
requirements have been satisfied, which we currently expect to occur in 2008. In the third
quarter of 2006, significant modifications were requested by the local transit authority to
change the garage structure design. We do not believe that the requested design changes
impact the construction schedule. However, it is expected that these changes will increase
the original budget by an amount up to $5,000,000. We believe that substantially all
potential additional amounts are reimbursable from unrelated third parties. At this time we
do not believe that it is probable that we will incur any additional
costs. The estimated fair value of, and our obligation under this
guarantee, both at inception and as of December 31, 2006 was not
significant and therefore we have not recorded any obligation for this
guarantee as of December 31, 2006.

•

Avalon Del Rey Apartments, LLC

– In the fourth quarter of 2006, we admitted a 70%
venture partner to the LLC for an investment of $49,000,000, including the assumption of
debt. In conjunction with this investment, we provided an operating guarantee to
the joint venture partner. This guarantee provides that if the initial year return earned
by the joint venture partner is less than a threshold return of 7% on its initial equity
investment, we will pay the joint venture partner an amount equal to the shortfall, up
to the 7% threshold return required. As of December 31, 2006, the cash flows and expected
return on investment of the community are expected to meet and exceed the initial year
threshold return required by our joint venture partner. Therefore we have not recorded any
liability associated with this guarantee as of December 31, 2006.

There are no other lines of credit, side agreements, financial guarantees or any other derivative
financial instruments related to or between us and our unconsolidated real estate entities. In
evaluating our capital structure and overall leverage, management takes into consideration our
proportionate share of this unconsolidated debt.


Contractual Obligations

We currently have contractual obligations consisting primarily of long-term debt obligations and
lease obligations for certain land parcels and regional and administrative office space. Scheduled
contractual obligations required for the next five years and thereafter are as follows as of
December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands):

Payments due by period

Less than 1

More than 5

Total

Year

1-3 Years

3-5 Years

Years

Long-Term Debt Obligations (1)

$

2,828,508

$

268,521

$

440,710

$

626,556

$

1,492,721

Operating Lease Obligations (2)

1,868,720

8,045

16,411

16,156

1,828,108

Total

$

4,697,228

$

276,566

$

457,121

$

642,712

$

3,320,829

(1)

No balance outstanding under our variable rate unsecured credit facility as of December 31,
2006. Amounts exclude interest payable as of December 31, 2006.

(2)

Includes land leases expiring between July 2029 and March 2142. Amounts do not include any
adjustment for purchase options available under the land leases.

Inflation and Deflation

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. In an inflationary
environment, this may allow us to realize increased rents upon renewal of existing leases or the
beginning of new leases. Short-term leases generally minimize our risk from the adverse effects of
inflation, although these leases generally permit residents to leave at the end of the lease term
and therefore expose us to the effect of a decline in market rents. In a deflationary rent
environment, we may be exposed to declining rents more quickly under these shorter term leases.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by our use
of the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “assume,” “project,” “plan,”
“may,” “shall,” “will” and other similar expressions in this Form 10-K, that predict or indicate
future events and trends and that do not report historical matters. These statements include,
among other things, statements regarding our intent, belief or expectations with respect to:


We cannot assure the future results or outcome of the matters described in these statements;
rather, these statements merely reflect our current expectations of the approximate outcomes of the
matters discussed. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors, which we describe in Item 1a, “Risk Factors,” elsewhere in this
report, may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the
anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these
forward-looking statements.

In addition, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of
the date of this report. We do not undertake a duty to update these forward-looking statements, and
therefore they may not represent our estimates and assumptions after the date of this report.

Some of the factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ
materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include, but are not
limited to, the following:

ITEM 7a. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are
exposed to certain financial market risks, the most predominant being
interest rate risk. We monitor interest rate risk as an integral part of our overall risk
management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce
the potentially adverse effect on our results of operations. The effect of interest rate
fluctuations historically has been small relative to other factors affecting operating results,
such as rental rates and occupancy. The specific market risks and the potential impact on our
operating results are described below.

Our operating results are affected by changes in interest rates as a result of borrowings under our
variable rate unsecured credit facility as well as outstanding bonds with variable interest rates.
We had $426,795,000 and $209,165,000 in variable rate debt outstanding (excluding variable rate debt effectively fixed
through swap agreements) as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. If interest rates on the
variable rate debt had been 100 basis points higher throughout 2006 and 2005, our annual interest
costs would have increased by approximately $3,027,000 and $3,990,000, respectively, based on
balances outstanding during the applicable years.


We currently use interest rate protection agreements (consisting of interest rate swap and interest
rate cap agreements) to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations on certain variable rate
indebtedness, not for trading on speculative purposes. Under swap agreements:

•

we agree to pay to a counterparty the interest that would have been incurred on a
fixed principal amount at a fixed interest rate (generally, the interest rate on a
particular treasury bond on the date the agreement is entered into, plus a fixed
increment); and

•

the counterparty agrees to pay to us the interest that would have been incurred on
the same principal amount at an assumed floating interest rate tied to a particular
market index.

As of December 31, 2006, the effect of swap agreements is to fix the interest rate on approximately
$65,800,000 of our variable rate, tax-exempt debt. The interest rate protection provided by
certain swap agreements on the consolidated variable rate, tax-exempt debt was not electively
entered into by us but, rather, was a requirement of either the bond issuer or the credit
enhancement provider related to certain tax-exempt bond financings. Had these swap
agreements not been in place during 2006 and 2005, our annual interest costs would have been
approximately $1,182,000 and $1,878,000 lower, respectively, based on balances outstanding and
reported interest rates during the applicable years. Additionally, if the variable interest rates
on this debt had been 100 basis points higher throughout 2006 and 2005 and these swap agreements
had not been in place, our annual interest costs would have been approximately $37,000 higher in
2006 and $1,200,000 lower in 2005.

Because the counterparties providing the swap agreements are major financial institutions which
have an A+ or better credit rating by the Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group and the interest rates
fixed by the swap agreements are significantly higher than current market rates for such
agreements, we do not believe there is exposure at this time to a default by a counterparty
provider.

In addition, changes in interest rates affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt, which impacts
the fair value of our aggregate indebtedness. Debt securities and
notes payable (excluding amounts outstanding under our
variable rate unsecured credit facility) with an aggregate carrying value of $2,828,508,000 at
December 31, 2006 had an estimated aggregate fair value of $2,939,717,000 at December 31, 2006.
Fixed rate debt (excluding our variable rate debt effectively fixed through swap agreements)
represented $2,324,513,000 of the carrying value and $2,435,722,000 of the fair value at December
31, 2006. If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher as of December 31, 2006, the fair
value of this fixed rate debt would have decreased by $102,909,000.

We do not
have any exposure to foreign currency or equity price risk, and our
exposure to commodity price risk is insignificant.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9a.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a)

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

. As required by Rule 13a-15 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the
Company carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the
Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls
and procedures. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or
submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. We continue to
review and document our disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal control
over financial reporting, and may from time to time make changes aimed at enhancing their
effectiveness and to ensure that our systems evolve with our business.

(b)

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

. Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on the framework in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that our
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006.

Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2006 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included elsewhere
herein.

(c)

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

. There was no change in our internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of the
period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9b.

OTHER INFORMATION

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Information pertaining to directors and executive officers of the Company and the Company’s Code of
Conduct are incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year covered by this Form
10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 16, 2007.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information pertaining to executive compensation is incorporated herein by reference to the
Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after the end of the year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 16, 2007.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Information pertaining to security ownership of management and certain beneficial owners of the
Company’s common stock is incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year covered
by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 16, 2007.

The Company maintains the 1994 Stock Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”) and the 1996
Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”), pursuant to which common stock or other
equity awards may be issued or granted to eligible persons.

The following table gives information about equity awards under the Company’s 1994 Plan and ESPP as
of December 31, 2006:

(a)

(b)

(c)

Number of securities

remaining available for future

Number of securities to be

Weighted-average

issuance under equity

issued upon exercise of

exercise price of

compensation plans

outstanding options,

outstanding options,

(excluding securities

Plan category

warrants and rights

warrants and rights

reflected in column (a))

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security holders

(1)

2,603,738

(2)(3)

$

69.65

(3)(4)

1,791,861

(5)

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

(6)

—

n/a

789,312

Total

2,603,738

$

69.65

(3)(4)

2,581,173

(1)

Consists of the 1994 Plan.

(2)

Includes 116,499 deferred units granted under the 1994 Plan, which, subject to vesting
requirements, will convert in the future to common stock on a one-for-one basis, but does not
include 274,986 shares of restricted stock that are outstanding and that are already reflected
in the Company’s outstanding shares.

(3)

Does not include outstanding options to acquire 4,240 shares, at a weighted-average
exercise price of $36.83 per share, that were assumed, in connection with the 1998 merger of
Avalon Properties, Inc. with and into the Company, under the Avalon Properties, Inc. 1995
Equity Incentive Plan and the Avalon Properties, Inc. 1993 Stock Option and Incentive Plan.


(4)

Excludes deferred units granted under the 1994 Plan, which, subject to vesting
requirements, will convert in the future to common stock on a one-for-one basis.

(5)

The 1994 Plan incorporates an evergreen formula pursuant to which the aggregate number
of shares reserved for issuance under the 1994 Plan will increase annually. On each January
1, the aggregate number of shares reserved for issuance under the 1994 Plan will increase by a
number of shares equal to a percentage (ranging from 0.48% to 1.00%) of all outstanding shares
of common stock and operating partnership units at the end of the year. The exact percentage used is determined based on the
percentage of all awards made under the 1994 Plan during the calendar year that were in the
form of stock options with an exercise price equal to the fair market value of a share of
common stock on the date of the grant. In accordance with this procedure, on January 1, 2007,
the maximum number of shares remaining available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan was increased by 748,133 to 2,539,994.

(6)

Consists of the ESPP.

The ESPP, which was adopted by the Board of Directors on October 29, 1996, has not been
approved by our shareholders. A further description of the ESPP appears in Note 10, “Stock-Based
Compensation Plans,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

Information pertaining to certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated herein by
reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within 120 days after the end of the year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 16, 2007.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Information pertaining to the fees paid to and services provided by the Company’s principal
accountant is incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year covered by this
Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 16, 2007.


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

15(a)(1)

Financial Statements

Index to Financial Statements

Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule:

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-1

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-8

15(a)(2)

Financial Statement Schedule

Schedule III — Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

F-35

15(a)(3)

Exhibits

The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as a part of this report.


INDEX TO EXHIBITS

3(i).1

—

Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Articles of Incorporation of the Company, dated as of June 4, 1998.
(Refiled herewith.)

3(i).2

—

Articles of Amendment, dated as of October 2, 1998. (Refiled herewith.)

3(i).3

—

Articles Supplementary, dated as of October 13, 1998, relating to the 8.70% Series H Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock. (Refiled herewith.)

3(ii).1

—

Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, as adopted by the Board of Directors on February 13, 2003.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 11, 2003.)

4.1

—

Second Supplemental Indenture of Avalon Properties dated as of December 16, 1997. (Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.3 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 11, 2003.)

4.2

—

Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of January 16, 1998, between the Company and State Street Bank
and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form S-3ASR of the Company filed
January 8, 2007.)

4.3

—

First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 20, 1998, between the Company and State Street Bank and
Trust Company as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Form S-3ASR of the Company filed
January 8, 2007.)

4.4

—

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 7, 1998, between the Company and State Street Bank and Trust
Company as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Form S-3ASR of the Company filed January 8,
2007.)

4.5

—

Amended and Restated Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 10, 2000 between the Company and State
Street Bank and Trust Company as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Form S-3ASR of the
Company filed January 8, 2007.)

4.6

—

Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 18, 2006, between the Company and U.S. Bank National
Association as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Form S-3ASR of the Company filed January
8, 2007.)

4.7

—

Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan of the Company filed September 14, 1999. (Incorporated by
reference to Form S-3 of the Company, File No. 333-87063.)

4.8

—

Amendment to the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan filed on December 17, 1999.
(Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2) of the Securities Act
of 1933 on December 17, 1999.)

4.9

—

Amendment to the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan filed on March 26, 2004.
(Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) of the Securities Act
of 1933 on March 26, 2004.)

10.1

—

Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement, dated August 6, 2003, among AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the
“Company”) and the Agents, including Administrative Procedures, relating


to the MTNs. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 5, 2004.)

10.2

—

Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P., dated as of March 16,
2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.3+

—

Endorsement Split Dollar Agreements and Amendments thereto with Messrs. Blair, Naughton, Fuller, Sargeant,
Horey and Meyer (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.4+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2003, between the Company and Thomas J. Sargeant. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 3 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (333-103755),
filed July 7, 2003.)

10.5+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Thomas J. Sargeant, dated as of March 31,
2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.6+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of January 10, 2003, between the Company and Bryce Blair. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 11, 2003.)

10.7+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Bryce Blair, dated as of March 31, 2005.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.8+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of February 26, 2001, between the Company and Timothy J. Naughton. (Refiled
herewith.)

10.9+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Timothy J. Naughton, dated as of March 31,
2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.10+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2001, between the Company and Leo S. Horey. (Refiled herewith.)

10.11+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Leo S. Horey, dated as of March 31, 2005.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005).

10.12+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2001, between the Company and Samuel B. Fuller. (Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 26, 2002.)

10.13+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Samuel B. Fuller, dated as of March 31, 2005.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005).

10.14+

—

Separation Agreement between the Company and Samuel B. Fuller, dated as of April 6, 2005. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)


10.15+

—

Retirement Agreement, dated as of March 24, 2000, between the Company and Gilbert M. Meyer. (Refiled herewith.)

10.16+

—

First Amendment to Retirement Agreement between the Company and Gilbert M. Meyer, dated as of March 31, 2005.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005).

10.17+

—

Avalon Properties, Inc. 1993 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (Refiled herewith.)

10.18+

—

Avalon Properties, Inc. 1995 Equity Incentive Plan. (Refiled herewith.)

10.19+

—

Amendment, dated May 6, 1999, to the Avalon Properties Amended and Restated 1995 Equity Incentive Plan.
(Refiled herewith.)

10.20+

—

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated in full on December 8, 2004.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.B 1 to Form 8-K of the Company filed December 14, 2004.)

10.21+

—

Amendment, dated February 9, 2006, to the AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended
and restated on December 8, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to Form 10-K of the Company
filed March 14, 2006.)

10.22+

—

Amendment, dated December 6, 2006, to the AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended
and restated on December 8, 2004. (Filed herewith.)

10.23+

—

1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated June 26, 1997, as amended and restated. (Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Post-effective Amendment No. 1 to Form S-8 of the Company filed June 26, 1997,
File No. 333-16837.)

10.24+

—

1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan — Plan Information Statement dated June 26, 1997.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Form S-8 of the company, File No. 333-16837.)

10.25+

—

Form of Indemnity Agreement between the Company and its Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
to Form 10-Q of the Company filed November 9, 2005.)

10.26+

—

The Company’s Officer Severance Plan adopted on September 9, 1999. (Refiled herewith.)

10.27+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as
Amended and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on
November 4, 2004.).

10.28+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Incentive Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended
and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on November 4,
2004.)

10.29+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Grant and Restricted Stock Agreement. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on November 4, 2004.)


10.30+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Director Restricted Unit Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on November 4, 2004.)

10.31+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Director Restricted Stock Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on November 4, 2004.)

10.32

—

Amended and Restated Revolving Loan Agreement, dated as of May 24, 2004, among the Company, as Borrower,
JPMorgan Chase Bank and Wachovia Bank, N.A., each as a Bank and Syndication Agent, Bank of America, successor
in interest to Fleet National Bank, as a Bank, Swing Lender and Issuing Bank, Morgan Stanley Bank, Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A., and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, each as a Bank and Documentation Agent, the other banks
signatory thereto, each as a Bank, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., as Sole Bookrunner and Lead Arranger, and
Bank of America, successor in interest to Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed August 6, 2004.)

10.33+

—

Rules and Procedures for Non-Employee Directors’ Deferred Compensation Program adopted on November 20, 2006. (Filed herewith.)

10.34+

—

Compensation Arrangements for
Non-Employee Directors. (Incorporated by reference to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed on February 14, 2006.)

12.1

—

Statements re: Computation of Ratios. (Filed herewith.)

21.1

—

Schedule of Subsidiaries of the Company. (Filed herewith.)

23.1

—

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP. (Filed herewith.)

31.1

—

Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Executive Officer). (Filed
herewith.)

31.2

—

Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Financial Officer). (Filed
herewith.)


—

Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer). (Filed herewith.)

+

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed or incorporated
by reference as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 154(c) of Form 10-K.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

Date:
February 28, 2007

By:

/s/ Bryce Blair

Bryce Blair, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

Date:
February 28, 2007

By:

/s/ Thomas J. Sargeant

Thomas J. Sargeant, Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

Date:
February 28, 2007

By:

/s/ Bruce A. Choate

Bruce A. Choate, Director

Date:
February 28, 2007

By:

/s/ John J. Healy, Jr.

John J. Healy, Jr., Director

Date:
February 28, 2007

By:

/s/ Gilbert M. Meyer

Gilbert M. Meyer, Director

Date:
February 28, 2007

By:

/s/ Timothy J. Naughton

Timothy J. Naughton, Director

Date:
February 28, 2007

By:

/s/ Lance R. Primis

Lance R. Primis, Director

Date:
February 28, 2007

By:

/s/ H. Jay Sarles

H. Jay Sarles, Director

Date:
February 28, 2007

By:

/s/ Allan D. Schuster

Allan D. Schuster, Director

Date:
February 28, 2007

By:

/s/ Amy P. Williams

Amy P. Williams, Director


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of

AvalonBay Communities, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. as
of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations and other
comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2006. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed
in the Index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of
the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. at December 31, 2006
and 2005, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated February 26, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

McLean, Virginia

February 26, 2007

F-1

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of

AvalonBay Communities, Inc.:

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting in Item 9a., that AvalonBay Communities, Inc. maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria
established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and
for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that AvalonBay Communities, Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all
material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2006, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations and other
comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2006 of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. and our report dated February 26,
2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

McLean, Virginia

February 26, 2007

F-2

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

12-31-06

12-31-05

ASSETS

Real estate:

Land

$

958,254

$

872,822

Buildings and improvements

4,560,457

4,254,914

Furniture, fixtures and equipment

143,480

131,689

5,662,191

5,259,425

Less accumulated depreciation

(1,099,834

)

(937,824

)

Net operating real estate

4,562,357

4,321,601

Construction in progress, including land

641,781

261,743

Land held for development

209,568

179,739

Operating real estate assets held for sale, net

64,351

182,705

Total real estate, net

5,478,057

4,945,788

Cash and cash equivalents

8,567

5,715

Cash in escrow

136,989

48,266

Resident security deposits

26,574

26,290

Investments in unconsolidated real estate entities

42,724

41,942

Deferred financing costs, net

26,343

17,976

Deferred development costs

39,365

31,467

Prepaid expenses and other assets

54,567

47,616

Total assets

$

5,813,186

$

5,165,060

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Unsecured notes, net

$

2,153,078

$

1,809,182

Variable rate unsecured credit facility

—

66,800

Mortgage notes payable

672,508

458,035

Dividends payable

60,417

54,476

Payables for construction

59,232

24,690

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

112,219

82,205

Accrued interest payable

37,236

34,649

Resident security deposits

38,803

35,544

Liabilities related to real estate assets held for sale

42,985

38,352

Total liabilities

3,176,478

2,603,933

Minority interest of unitholders in consolidated partnerships

5,270

19,464

Commitments and contingencies

—

—

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; $25
liquidation preference; 50,000,000 shares
authorized at both
December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005;
4,000,000 shares issued
and outstanding at both December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005



Common stock, $0.01 par value; 140,000,000
shares authorized at both December 31, 2006
and December 31, 2005; 74,668,372 and 73,663,048 shares issued and outstanding at
December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively



Additional paid-in capital

2,482,516

2,429,568

Accumulated earnings less dividends

151,714

115,788

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(3,579

)

(4,470

)

Total stockholders’ equity

2,631,438

2,541,663

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

5,813,186

$

5,165,060

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-3

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

731,041

$

666,376

$

613,240

Management, development and other fees

6,259

4,304


Total revenue

737,300

670,680

613,844

Expenses:

Operating expenses, excluding property taxes

210,895

191,558

181,351

Property taxes

68,257

65,487

59,458

Interest expense, net

111,046

127,099

131,103

Depreciation expense

162,896

158,822

151,991

General and administrative expense

24,767

25,761

18,074

Total expenses

577,861

568,727

541,977

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

7,455

7,198

1,100

Venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

—

(1,178

)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

(573

)

(1,481

)

(150

)

Gain on sale of land

13,519

4,479

1,138

Income from continuing operations before
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

179,840

112,149

72,777

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

1,148

14,942

21,134

Gain on sale
of communities

97,411

195,287

121,287

Total discontinued operations

98,559

210,229

142,421

Income before cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle

278,399

322,378

215,198

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

—

4,547

Net income

278,399

322,378

219,745

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

Net income available to common stockholders

$

269,699

$

313,678

$

211,045

Other comprehensive income:

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges


2,626

1,116

Comprehensive income

$

270,590

$

316,304

$

212,161

Earnings per common share — basic:

Income from continuing operations
(net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

2.31

$

1.42

$

0.96

Discontinued operations

1.33

2.88

1.99

Net income available to common stockholders

$

3.64

$

4.30

$

2.95

Earnings per common share — diluted:

Income from continuing operations
(net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

2.27

$

1.40

$

0.96

Discontinued operations

1.30

2.81

1.96

Net income available to common stockholders

$

3.57

$

4.21

$

2.92

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-4

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(Dollars in thousands)

Accumulated

Accumulated

Shares issued

Additional

earnings

other

Total

Preferred

Common

Preferred

Common

paid-in

less

comprehensive

stockholders’

stock

stock

stock

stock

capital

dividends

loss

equity

Balance at December 31, 2003

4,000,000

70,937,526

$


$


$

2,316,773

$

2,024

$

(8,212

)

$

2,311,334

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

219,745

—

219,745

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,116

1,116

Dividends declared to common
and preferred stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

(210,338

)

—

(210,338

)

Issuance of common stock

—

1,644,550

—


59,147

(662

)

—

58,502

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

4,932

—

—

4,932

Balance at December 31, 2004

4,000,000

72,582,076



2,380,852

10,769

(7,096

)

2,385,291

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

322,378

—

322,378

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,626

2,626

Dividends declared to common
and preferred stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

(216,982

)

—

(216,982

)

Issuance of common stock

—

1,080,972

—


40,378

(377

)

—

40,012

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

8,338

—

—

8,338

Balance at December 31, 2005

4,000,000

73,663,048



2,429,568

115,788

(4,470

)

2,541,663

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

278,399

—

278,399

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—



Dividends declared to common
and preferred stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

(241,155

)

—

(241,155

)

Issuance of common stock

—

1,005,324

—


38,839

(1,318

)

—

37,531

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

14,109

—

—

14,109

Balance at December 31, 2006

4,000,000

74,668,372

$


$


$

2,482,516

$

151,714

$

(3,579

)

$

2,631,438

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-5

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Dollars in thousands)

For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

278,399

$

322,378

$

219,745

Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided
by operating activities:

Depreciation expense

162,896

158,822

151,991

Depreciation expense from discontinued operations

—

3,241

10,676

Amortization of deferred financing costs and debt premium/discount

4,474

4,022

3,962

Amortization of deferred compensation

10,095

4,292

2,593

Income allocated to minority interest in consolidated partnerships


1,481


Income allocated to venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

—

1,178

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities, net of eliminations

(6,480

)

(6,565

)

(1,100

)

Return on investment of unconsolidated entities




Gain on sale of real estate assets

(110,930

)

(199,766

)

(122,425

)

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

—

(4,547

)

Increase in cash in operating escrows

(844

)

(4,344

)

(1,451

)

Decrease (increase) in resident security deposits,
prepaid expenses and other assets

(2,197

)

8,547

(10,589

)

Increase in accrued expenses, other liabilities
and accrued interest payable

15,659

13,810

25,354

Net cash provided by operating activities

351,943

306,248

275,617

Cash flows from investing activities:

Development/redevelopment of real estate assets including
land acquisitions and deferred development costs

(735,167

)

(382,871

)

(355,938

)

Acquisition of real estate assets, including partner equity interest

(74,924

)

(57,415

)

(128,238

)

Capital expenditures — existing real estate assets

(21,289

)

(17,570

)

(12,984

)

Capital expenditures — non-real estate assets

(957

)

(1,520

)

(860

)

Proceeds from sale of real estate and technology investments,
including reimbursement for Fund communities, net of selling costs

272,223

469,292

219,649

Increase (decrease) in payables for construction

34,542

5,198

(3,962

)

Decrease (increase) in cash in construction escrows

19,572

(21,784

)


Repayment of participating mortgage note, including
interest and prepayment premium

—

—

34,846

Increase in investments in unconsolidated real estate entities

(5,371

)

(13,091

)

(4,397

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(511,371

)

(19,761

)

(251,683

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Issuance of common stock

26,551

36,611

54,031

Dividends paid

(234,958

)

(215,391

)

(209,095

)

Net borrowings (repayments) under unsecured credit facility

(66,800

)

(35,200

)

50,900

Issuance of mortgage notes payable and draws on construction loans

113,849

26,269

105,843

Repayments of mortgage notes payable

(6,827

)

(41,932

)

(40,270

)

Issuance (repayment) of unsecured notes

343,743

(50,000

)

25,000

Payment of deferred financing costs

(12,698

)

(1,292

)

(9,318

)

Redemption of units for cash by minority partners

(80

)

(50

)

(1,691

)

Distributions to DownREIT partnership unitholders

(392

)

(1,194

)

(1,425

)

Distributions to joint venture and profit-sharing partners

(108

)

(114

)

(3,446

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

162,280

(282,293

)

(29,471

)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

2,852

4,194

(5,537

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

5,715

1,521

7,058

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

8,567

$

5,715

$

1,521

Cash paid during year for interest, net of amount capitalized

$

102,640

$

121,526

$

124,895

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-6

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (continued)

Supplemental disclosures of non-cash investing and financing activities (dollars in thousands):

During the year ended December 31, 2006:

•

As described in Note 4,
“Stockholders’ Equity,” 122,172 shares of common stock
valued at $12,568 were issued in connection with stock grants, 2,306 shares valued at $256
were issued through the Company’s dividend reinvestment plan, 47,411 shares valued at
$3,449 were withheld to satisfy employees’ tax withholding and
other liabilities and 5,910 shares valued at $193 were forfeited, for a net value of $9,182. In addition, the Company granted 849,769
options for common stock, net of forfeitures, at a value of $9,946.

•

308,345 units of limited partnership, valued at $14,166, were presented for redemption
to the DownREIT partnerships that issued such units and were acquired by the Company in
exchange for an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock.

•

The Company issued $187,300 of
variable rate tax-exempt debt, of which $107,451 in proceeds
were not received, but placed in an escrow until requisitioned for construction funding.

•

The Company recorded a decrease to other liabilities and a corresponding gain to other
comprehensive income of $891 to adjust the Company’s Hedged Derivatives (as defined in Note
5, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”) to their fair value.

•

Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid totaled $60,417.

During
the year ended December 31, 2005:

•

165,790 shares of common stock
were issued in connection with stock grants, 1,295 shares were issued through the Company’s dividend reinvestment plan, 8,971 shares were issued to a member of the Board of Directors in fulfillment of a deferred stock award,
50,916 shares were withheld to satisfy employees’ tax withholding and other
liabilities and 9,965 shares were forfeited, for a net value of $9,317. In addition, the
Company granted 696,484 options for common stock, net of forfeitures, at a value of $4,521.

•

49,263 units of limited partnership, valued at $2,202, were presented for redemption to
the DownREIT partnerships that issued such units and were acquired by the Company in
exchange for an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock.

•

The Company deconsolidated mortgage notes payable in the aggregate amount of $24,869
upon admittance of outside investors into the Fund (as defined in Note 6, “Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities”).

•

The Company assumed fixed rate debt of $4,566 as part of the acquisition of an improved
land parcel.

•

The Company recorded a decrease to other liabilities and a corresponding gain to other
comprehensive income of $2,626 to adjust the Company’s Hedging Derivatives to their fair
value.

•

Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid totaled $54,476.

During
the year ended December 31, 2004:

•

147,517 shares of common stock were issued in connection with stock
grants, 78,509 shares were issued in connection with non-cash stock option
exercises, 1,545 shares were issued through the Company’s dividend
reinvestment plan, 75,515 shares were withheld to satisfy employees’ tax
withholding and other liabilities and 3,012 shares were forfeited, for a net value of
$6,138. In addition, the Company granted 465,232 options for common stock, net of
forfeitures, at a value of $2,081.

•

104,160 units of limited partnership, valued at $4,035, were presented for redemption to
the DownREIT partnerships that issued such units and were acquired by the Company in
exchange for an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock.

•

The Company sold two communities with mortgage notes payable of $28,335 in the
aggregate, that were assumed by the respective buyers as part of the total sales price.

•

The Company assumed fixed rate debt of $8,155 in connection with the acquisition of a
community and $20,141 in connection with the acquisition of three improved land parcels.

•

The Company recorded a decrease to other liabilities and a corresponding gain to other
comprehensive income of $1,116 to adjust the Company’s Hedged Derivatives to their fair
value.

•

Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid totaled $52,982.

F-7

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

1.

Organization and Significant Accounting Policies

Organization

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the “Company,” which term, unless the context otherwise requires,
refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries) is a Maryland corporation
that has elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) under the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 (“the Code”), as amended. The Company focuses on the ownership and operation of
apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. These markets are
located in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern
California regions of the country.

At December 31, 2006, the Company owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 150
operating apartment communities containing 43,141 apartment homes in ten states and the District of
Columbia, of which six communities containing 2,381 apartment homes were under reconstruction. In
addition, the Company owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 17 communities under
construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 5,153 apartment homes when completed.
The Company also owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in rights to develop an
additional 54 communities that, if developed in the manner expected, will contain an estimated
14,185 apartment homes.

Principles of Consolidation

The Company is the surviving corporation from the merger (the “Merger”) of Bay Apartment
Communities, Inc. (“Bay”) and Avalon Properties, Inc. (“Avalon”) on June 4, 1998, in which Avalon
shareholders received 0.7683 of a share of common stock of the Company for each share owned of
Avalon common stock. The Merger was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, with
the historical financial statements for Avalon presented prior to the Merger. At that time, Avalon
ceased to legally exist, and Bay as the surviving legal entity adopted the historical financial
statements of Avalon. Consequently, Bay’s assets were recorded in the historical financial
statements of Avalon at an amount equal to Bay’s debt outstanding at that time plus the value of
capital stock retained by the Bay stockholders, which approximates fair value. In connection with
the Merger, the Company changed its name from Bay Apartment Communities, Inc. to AvalonBay
Communities, Inc.

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its
wholly-owned partnerships, certain joint venture partnerships, subsidiary partnerships structured
as DownREITs and any variable interest entities consolidated under FASB Interpretation No. 46 (“FIN
46(R)”), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51,” as revised
in December 2003. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

The Company assesses consolidation of variable interest entities under the guidance of FIN 46(R).
The Company accounts for joint venture entities and subsidiary partnerships, including those
structured as DownREITs, that are not variable interest entities, in accordance with EITF Issue No.
04-5, “Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a
Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights”, Statement of
Position (“SOP”) 78-9, “Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures”, Accounting Principles
Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 18, “The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock” and
EITF Topic D-46, “Accounting for Limited Partnership Investments.” The Company uses EITF Issue No. 04-5
to evaluate the partnership of each joint venture entity and determine whether control over the
partnership, as defined by the EITF, lies with the general partner, or the limited partners, when
the limited partners have certain rights. The general partner in a limited partnership is presumed
to control that limited partnership, unless that presumption is overcome by the limited partners
having either: (i) the substantive ability, either by a single limited partner or through a simple
majority vote, to dissolve the limited partnership or otherwise remove the general partner without
cause; or (ii) substantive participating rights. If the Company
is
the general partner and has control
over the partnership, or if the Company’s limited partnership ownership includes the ability to dissolve the
partnership, or has substantive participating rights, as discussed above, the Company consolidates
the investments.

F-8

If the
Company is not the general partner, or the Company’s partnership interest does not contain
either of the above terms which overcome the presumption of control in a limited partnership
residing with the general partner, the Company then looks to the guidance in SOP 78-9, APB 18 and EITF D-46
to determine the accounting framework to apply. The Company generally uses the equity method to
account for these investments unless our ownership interest is so minor that we have virtually no
influence over the partnership operating and financial policies. Investments in which the Company
has little or no influence are accounted for using the cost method.

In each of the partnerships structured as DownREITs, either the Company or one of the Company’s
wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are one or more limited partners whose
interest in the partnership is represented by units of limited partnership interest. For each
DownREIT partnership, limited partners are entitled to receive an initial distribution before any
distribution is made to the general partner. Although the partnership agreements for each of the
DownREITs are different, generally the distributions per unit paid to the holders of units of
limited partnership interests have approximated the Company’s current common stock dividend per
share. The holders of units of limited partnership interest have the right to
present all or some of their units for redemption for a cash amount as determined by the applicable
partnership agreement and based on the fair value of the Company’s common stock. In lieu of cash
redemption, the Company may elect to exchange such units for an equal number of shares of the
company’s common stock.

In
conjunction with the acquisition and development of investments in
unconsolidated entities, the Company may incur costs in excess of its
equity in the underlying assets. These costs are capitalized and
depreciated over the life of the underlying assets to the extent that
the Company expects to recover these costs.

If there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates a loss in the value of an investment,
the Company’s policy is to record the loss and reduce the value of the investment to its fair
value. A loss in value would be indicated if the Company could not recover the carrying value of
the investment or if the investee could not sustain an earnings capacity that would justify the
carrying amount of the investment. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded
an impairment loss of $1,002 related to a technology investment, which is included in operating
expenses, excluding property taxes on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and
Other Comprehensive Income. The Company did not recognize an impairment loss on any of its
investments in unconsolidated entities during the years ended December 31, 2006 or 2005.

Revenue and Gain Recognition

Rental income related to leases is recognized on an accrual basis when due from residents in
accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, “Revenue Recognition,” and Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 13, “Accounting for Leases.” In accordance with the
Company’s standard lease terms, rental payments are generally due on a monthly basis. Any cash
concessions given at the inception of the lease are amortized over the approximate life of the
lease, which is generally one year.

The Company accounts for sales of real estate assets and the related gain recognition in accordance
with SFAS No. 66, “Accounting for Sales of Real Estate.”

Real Estate

The operating real estate assets are stated at cost and consist of land, buildings and
improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment, and other costs incurred during their development,
redevelopment and acquisition. Significant expenditures which improve or extend the life of an
asset are capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as
incurred.

The Company’s policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize only
non-recurring expenditures. Improvements and upgrades are capitalized only if the item exceeds $15,
extends the useful life of the asset and is not related to making an apartment home ready for the
next resident. Purchases of personal property, such as computers and furniture, are capitalized
only if the item is a new addition and exceeds $2.5. The Company generally expenses purchases of
personal property made for replacement purposes.

The capitalization of costs during the development of assets (including interest and related loan
fees, property taxes and other direct and indirect costs) begins when development efforts commence
and ends when the asset, or a portion of an asset, is delivered and is ready for its intended use.

F-9

Cost capitalization during redevelopment of apartment homes (including interest and related loan
fees, property taxes and other direct and indirect costs) begins when an apartment home is taken
out-of-service for redevelopment and ends when the apartment home redevelopment is completed and
the apartment home is available for a new resident. Rental income and operating costs incurred
during the initial lease-up or post-redevelopment lease-up period are recognized as they accrue.

In accordance with SFAS No. 67, “Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate
Projects,” the Company capitalizes pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new development
opportunities for which the Company currently believes future development is probable (“Development
Rights”). Future development of these Development Rights is dependent upon various factors,
including zoning and regulatory approval, rental market conditions, construction costs and
availability of capital. Pre-development costs incurred in the pursuit of Development Rights for
which future development is not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In addition, if
the status of a Development Right changes, making future development by the Company no longer
probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are written-off with a charge to expense. The
Company expenses costs related to abandoned pursuits, which includes the abandonment or impairment
of Development Rights, acquisition pursuits, disposition pursuits and technology investments, in
the amounts of $2,115 in 2006, $816 in 2005 and $1,726 in 2004. These costs are included in
operating expenses, excluding property taxes on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. Abandoned pursuit costs can vary greatly, and the costs
incurred in any given period may be significantly different in future years.

The Company owns land improved with office buildings and industrial space occupied by unrelated
third-parties in connection with five Development Rights. The Company intends to manage the
current improvements until such time as all tenant obligations have been satisfied or eliminated
through negotiation, and construction of new apartment communities is ready to begin. As provided
under the guidance of SFAS No. 67, the revenue from incidental operations received from the current
improvements in excess of any incremental costs are being recorded as a reduction of total
capitalized costs of the Development Right and not as part of net income.

In connection with the acquisition of an operating community, the Company performs a valuation and
allocation to each asset and liability acquired in such transaction, based on their estimated fair
values at the date of acquisition in accordance with SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations.” The
purchase price allocations to tangible assets, such as land, buildings and improvements, and
furniture, fixtures and equipment, are reflected in real estate assets and depreciated over their
estimated useful lives. Any purchase price allocation to intangible assets, such as in-place
leases, is included in prepaid expenses and other assets on the accompanying Consolidated Balance
Sheets and amortized over the average remaining lease term of the acquired leases. The fair value
of acquired in-place leases is determined based on the estimated cost to replace such leases,
including foregone rents during an assumed re-lease period, as well as the impact on projected cash
flow of acquired leases with leased rents above or below current market rents.

Depreciation is calculated on buildings and improvements using the straight-line method over their
estimated useful lives, which range from seven to thirty years. Furniture, fixtures and equipment
are generally depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which
range from three years (primarily computer-related equipment) to seven years.

It is the
Company’s policy to perform a quarterly qualitative analysis to determine if there are changes in
circumstances that suggest the carrying value of a long lived asset may not be recoverable. If
there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates an impairment in the value of an
operating community, the Company compares the current and projected operating cash flow of the
community over its remaining useful life, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying amount of the
community. If the carrying amount is in excess of the estimated projected operating cash flow of
the community, the Company would recognize an impairment loss equivalent to an amount required to
adjust the carrying amount to its estimated fair market value. The Company has not recognized an
impairment loss on any of its operating communities during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005
or 2004.

Income Taxes

The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code, as amended, for the year ended December
31, 1994 and has not revoked such election. A corporate REIT is a legal entity which holds real
estate interests and must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a
requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its adjusted taxable income to
stockholders. As a REIT, the Company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal
income tax on taxable income if it distributes 100% of the taxable income
over the time period allowed
under the Code to its stockholders.

F-10

Management believes that all such conditions for the avoidance
of income taxes have been met for the periods presented. Accordingly, no provision for federal and
state income taxes has been made. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year,
it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable
alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable
years. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company may be subject to certain
state and local taxes on its income and property, and to federal income and excise taxes on its
undistributed taxable income. In addition, taxable income from non-REIT activities managed through
taxable REIT subsidiaries is subject to federal, state and local income taxes.

The following reconciles net income available to common stockholders to taxable net income for the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (unaudited):




Estimate

Actual

Actual

Net income available to common stockholders

$

269,699

$

313,678

$

211,045

Dividends attributable to preferred stock,
not deductible for tax

8,700

8,700

8,700

GAAP gain on sale of communities less than tax gain

7,326

9,345

8,305

Depreciation/Amortization timing differences on real estate

(24,917

)

(14,736

)

(3,793

)

Tax compensation expense in excess of GAAP

(20,968

)

(18,969

)

(19,758

)

Other adjustments

5,135

(2,254

)

(9,835

)

Taxable net income

$

244,975

$

295,764

$

194,664

The following summarizes the tax components of the Company’s common and preferred dividends
declared for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (unaudited):




Ordinary income


%


%


%

15% capital gain


%


%


%

Unrecaptured §1250 gain


%


%


%

Deferred Financing Costs

Deferred financing costs include fees and other expenditures necessary to obtain debt financing and
are amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective interest method, over the
shorter of the term of the loan or the related credit enhancement facility, if applicable.
Unamortized financing costs are written-off when debt is retired before the maturity date.
Accumulated amortization of deferred financing costs was $16,179 at December 31, 2006 and was
$16,074 at December 31, 2005.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Cash in Escrow

Cash and cash equivalents include all cash and liquid investments with an original maturity of
three months or less from the date acquired. Cash in escrow consists primary of construction
financing proceeds that is restricted for use in the construction of a specific community. The
majority of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and cash in escrows are held at major commercial
banks.

Interest Rate Contracts

The Company utilizes derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk and has
designated these financial instruments as cash flow hedges under the guidance of SFAS No. 133,
“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” and SFAS No. 138, “Accounting for
Certain Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, an Amendment of Statement No. 133.” This
statement requires that every derivative instrument be recorded on the balance sheet as either an
asset or liability measured at its fair value, with changes in fair value recognized currently in
earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.

F-11

For cash flow hedge relationships,
changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument that are deemed effective at offsetting the
risk being hedged are reported in other comprehensive income. For cash flow hedges where the
cumulative changes in the fair value of the derivative exceed the cumulative changes in fair value
of the hedged item, the ineffective portion is recognized in current period earnings. As of
December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately $262,000 and $233,000, respectively, in
variable rate debt subject to cash flow hedges. See Note 5, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities” for further discussion of derivative financial instruments.

Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income, as reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other
Comprehensive Income, is defined as all changes in equity during each period except for those
resulting from investments by or distributions to shareholders. Accumulated other comprehensive
loss as reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, reflects the effective
portion of the cumulative changes in the fair value of derivatives in qualifying cash flow hedge
relationships.

Earnings per Common Share

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 128, “Earnings per Share,” basic earnings per share
is computed by dividing earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of
shares outstanding during the period. Other potentially dilutive common shares, and the related
impact to earnings, are considered when calculating earnings per share on a diluted basis. The
Company’s earnings per common share are determined as follows:

For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

Basic and diluted shares outstanding

Weighted average common shares — basic

74,125,795

72,952,492

71,564,202

Weighted average DownREIT units outstanding

172,255

474,440

573,529

Effect of dilutive securities

1,288,848

1,332,386

1,217,225

Weighted average common shares — diluted

75,586,898

74,759,318

73,354,956

Calculation of Earnings per Share — basic

Net income available to common stockholders

$

269,699

$

313,678

$

211,045

Weighted average common shares — basic

74,125,795

72,952,492

71,564,202

Earnings per common share — basic

$

3.64

$

4.30

$

2.95

Calculation of Earnings per Share — diluted

Net income available to common stockholders

$

269,699

$

313,678

$

211,045

Add: Minority interest of DownREIT unitholders

in consolidated partnerships, including discontinued operations


1,363

3,048

Adjusted net income available to common stockholders

$

270,090

$

315,041

$

214,093

Weighted average common shares — diluted

75,586,898

74,759,318

73,354,956

Earnings per common share — diluted

$

3.57

$

4.21

$

2.92

Certain options to purchase shares of common stock in the amounts of 3,000 were outstanding during
the year ended December 31, 2006, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per
share because in applying the treasury stock method under the provisions of SFAS 123(R), as
discussed below, such options are anti-dilutive. Employee options to purchase shares of common
stock of 4,500 and 6,000 were outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the
options’ exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares for the
period and therefore, are anti-dilutive.

F-12

Stock-Based Compensation

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No.
123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” as amended by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation – Transition and Disclosure – an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123,”
prospectively to all employee awards granted, modified, or settled on or after January 1, 2003.
Awards under the Company’s stock option plans vest over a three-year period. Therefore, the cost
related to stock-based employee compensation for employee stock options included in the
determination of net income for the year ended 2006 is the same as the cost that would have been
recognized if the fair value based method had been applied to all awards since the original
effective date of SFAS No. 123. However, the cost related to stock-based employee compensation for
employee stock options included in the determination of net income for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004 is less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value based method had
been applied to all awards granted since the original effective date of SFAS 123. If the fair
value based method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested awards in the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, net income would have been $112 and $967 lower for the
years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. There would not have been any
material impact on earnings per common share – diluted for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.

The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 123(R), “Share Based Payment,” using the modified
prospective transition method on January 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) did not have a
material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. However, the
adoption of SFAS 123(R) changed the service period for, and timing of, the recognition of
compensation cost related to retirement eligibility, which will generally result in accelerated
expense recognition by the Company for its stock based compensation programs. For the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company recorded compensation cost over the vesting period,
regardless of eligibility for retirement (see Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for a
discussion of the Company’s retirement plan). If the Company had recorded compensation cost based
on retirement eligibility, the increase to compensation cost during the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004 would not have been material.

Under the provisions of SFAS 123(R), the Company is required to estimate the forfeiture of stock
options and recognize compensation cost net of the estimated forfeitures. The estimated
forfeitures included in compensation cost are adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures at the end of
the vesting period. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), option forfeitures were recognized as
they occurred. The forfeiture rate at December 31, 2006 was 1.9%. The application of estimated
forfeitures did not materially impact compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2006.

Variable Interest Entities under FIN 46(R)

The Company adopted the final provisions of FIN 46(R) as of January 1, 2004, which resulted in the
consolidation of one entity during 2004 from which the Company held a participating mortgage note.
As a result, the Company recognized a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in
January 2004 in the amount of $4,547, which increased earnings per common share – diluted by $0.06.
The Company did not hold an equity interest in this entity, and therefore 100% of the entity’s net
income or loss was recognized by the Company as minority interest in consolidated partnerships on
the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. In October 2004, the
Company received payment in full of the outstanding mortgage note. Upon note repayment, the
Company did not continue to hold a variable interest in this entity and therefore the Company
discontinued consolidating the entity under the provisions of FIN
46(R). Related interest income in
the year ended December 31, 2004 has been eliminated in consolidation.

F-13

Assets Held for Sale & Discontinued Operations

The Company follows SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”
(“SFAS 144”) which requires that the assets and liabilities of any communities which have been
sold, or otherwise qualify as held for sale, be presented separately in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. In addition, the results of operations for those assets that meet the definition of
discontinued operations are presented as such in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of
Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. Held for sale and discontinued operations
classifications are provided in both the current and prior years presented. Real estate assets
held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount or the fair value less the cost to
sell. Both the real estate assets and corresponding liabilities are presented separately in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Subsequent to classification of a community as held for
sale, no further depreciation is recorded. For those assets qualifying for classification as
discontinued operations, the community specific components of net income presented as discontinued
operations include net operating income, minority interest expense and interest expense, net. For
periods prior to the asset qualifying for discontinued operations under SFAS 144, the Company
reclassified the results of operations to discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS 144.
Subsequent to the reclassification to discontinued operations, the impact of assets classified as
discontinued operations on the statements of operations and other comprehensive income will include
depreciation. In addition, the net gain or loss (including any impairment loss) on the eventual
disposal of communities held for sale will be presented as discontinued operations when recognized.
A change in presentation for held for sale or discontinued operations will not have any impact on
the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company combines the operating,
investing and financing portions of cash flows attributable to discontinued operations with the
respective cash flows from continuing operations on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Interpretation No. 48,
“Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,” (“FIN
48”) which provides guidance for the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an
enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, “Accounting for Income
Taxes.” FIN 48 establishes a threshold for the recognition and measurement in financial statements
of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 is effective for all
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company is still assessing the impact and
disclosure requirements of FIN 48.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements,” which standardizes the
definition of fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures
about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that
require or permit fair value measurements, and accordingly, this statement does not require any new
fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for all fiscal years beginning after November
15, 2007. The Company does not believe that the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have any material
impact on its financial position or results of operations.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates
and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue
and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts in prior years’ financial statements to conform
to current year presentations.

F-14

2.

Interest Capitalized

The
Company capitalized interest during the development and redevelopment
of real estate assets in accordance with SFAS No. 34, “Capitalization of
Interest Cost.” Capitalized interest
associated with communities under development or redevelopment totaled $46,388 for 2006, $25,284
for 2005 and $20,566 for 2004.

3.

Notes Payable, Unsecured Notes and Credit Facility

The Company’s mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and variable rate unsecured credit facility
as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 are summarized below. The following amounts and discussion do not
include the construction loan payable related to a community classified as held for sale as of
December 31, 2006 (see Note 7, “Real Estate Disposition Activities”).

12-31-06

12-31-05

Fixed rate unsecured notes

(1)

$

2,153,078

$

1,809,182

Fixed rate mortgage notes payable — conventional and tax-exempt

234,272

239,025

Variable rate mortgage notes payable — conventional and tax-exempt

438,236

219,010

Total notes payable and unsecured notes

2,825,586

2,267,217

Variable rate unsecured credit facility

—

66,800

Total mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and unsecured credit facility

$

2,825,586

$

2,334,017

(1)

Balances at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 include $2,922 and $818 of debt
discount, respectively.

The following debt activity occurred during the year ended December 31, 2006:

•

The Company issued $34,000 of variable rate mortgage debt maturing in March 2011;

•

The Company issued $93,800 of variable rate tax-exempt debt maturing in November 2037;

•

The Company issued $48,500 of variable rate tax-exempt debt maturing in November 2039;

•

The Company issued $45,000 of variable rate tax-exempt debt maturing in July 2040;

•

The Company repaid $150,000 of unsecured notes with an annual interest rate of 6.8%,
pursuant to their scheduled maturity; and

•

The Company issued a total of $500,000 of unsecured notes a shelf registration
statement. The offering consisted of two separate tranches in the aggregate principal
amount of $250,000 each, with effective interest rates of 5.586% and 5.820%, maturing in
January 2012 and September 2016, respectively.

In the aggregate, secured notes payable mature at various dates from October 2008 through April
2043 and are secured by certain apartment communities and improved
land parcels (with a net carrying value of $954,612 as of
December 31, 2006). As of December 31, 2006, the Company has guaranteed approximately $67,395 of
mortgage notes payable held by wholly-owned subsidiaries; all such mortgage notes payable are
consolidated for financial reporting purposes. The weighted average interest rate of the Company’s
fixed rate mortgage notes payable (conventional and tax-exempt) was 6.8% at December 31, 2006 and
December 31, 2005. The weighted average interest rate of the Company’s variable rate mortgage
notes payable and its unsecured credit facility (as discussed on the following page), including the
effect of certain financing related fees, was 5.8% at December 31, 2006 and 5.5% at December 31,
2005.

F-15

Scheduled payments and maturities of mortgage notes payable and unsecured notes outstanding at
December 31, 2006 are as follows:

Unsecured

Stated

Secured notes

Secured notes

notes

interest rate of

Year

payments

maturities

maturities

unsecured notes


$

8,521

$

—

$

110,000

6.875

%

150,000

5.000

%


8,718

4,368

50,000

6.625

%

146,000

8.250

%


7,831

73,793

150,000

7.500

%


6,354

28,989

200,000

7.500

%


5,303

35,910

300,000

6.625

%

50,000

6.625

%


4,601

12,166

250,000

6.125

%

250,000

5.500

%


4,728

—

100,000

4.950

%


3,748

34,450

150,000

5.375

%


5,499

—

—

—


5,926

—

250,000

5.750

%

Thereafter

144,364

277,239

—

—

$

205,593

$

466,915

$

2,156,000

The Company’s unsecured notes contain a number of financial and other covenants with which the
Company must comply, including, but not limited to, limits on the aggregate amount of total and
secured indebtedness the Company may have on a consolidated basis and limits on the Company’s
required debt service payments.

The Company has entered into a $650,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility with a
syndicate of commercial banks. JPMorgan Chase Bank, Wachovia Bank,
N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. led
the syndication effort in varying capacities. There were no amounts outstanding under the current
facility and $38,713 outstanding in letters of credit on December 31, 2006. The Company had
$66,800 outstanding under the prior credit facility and $40,154 in letters of credit on December
31, 2005. Under the terms of the credit facility, the Company may elect to increase the facility
up to $1,000,000, provided that one or more banks (from the syndicate or otherwise) voluntarily
agree to provide the additional commitment. No member of the syndicate of banks can prohibit such
increase; such an increase in the facility will only be effective to the extent banks (from the
syndicate or otherwise) choose to commit to lend additional funds. The Company pays participating
banks, in the aggregate, an annual facility fee of approximately $813, which is subject to increase
in the event that the amount available on the facility is increased. The unsecured credit facility
bears interest at varying levels based on the London Interbank Offered
Rate (“LIBOR”), rating levels achieved on the Company’s unsecured notes and on a maturity schedule
selected by the Company. The current stated pricing is LIBOR plus 0.40% per annum. The stated
spread over LIBOR can vary from LIBOR plus 0.325% to LIBOR plus 1.00% based on credit conditions.
In addition, the unsecured credit facility includes a competitive bid option, which allows banks
that are part of the lender consortium to bid to make loans to the Company at a rate that is lower
than the stated rate provided by the unsecured credit facility for up to $422,500. The competitive
bid option may result in lower pricing than the stated rate if market conditions allow. The
Company had no amounts outstanding under this competitive bid option as of December 31, 2006. The
Company is subject to certain customary covenants under the unsecured credit facility, including,
but not limited to, maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios, a minimum fixed charges coverage
ratio and minimum unencumbered assets and equity levels. The credit facility matures in November
2011, assuming exercise of a one-year renewal option by the Company.

F-16

4.

Stockholders’ Equity

As of both December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had authorized for issuance 140,000,000 and
50,000,000 shares of common and preferred stock, respectively. As of
December 31, 2006, the
Company has the following series of redeemable preferred stock outstanding at a stated value of
$100,000. This series has no stated maturity and is not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory
redemptions.

Shares outstanding

Payable

Annual

Liquidation

Non-redeemable

Series

December 31, 2006

quarterly

rate

preference

prior to

H

4,000,000

March, June, September, December

8.70

%

$

25.00

October 15, 2008

Dividends on the preferred stock are cumulative from the date of original issue and are payable
quarterly in arrears on or before the 15th day of each month as stated in the table above. The
preferred stock is not redeemable prior to the date stated in the table above, but on or after the
stated date, may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company in whole or in part at a
redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends, if any.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company:

(i)

issued 614,692 shares of common stock in connection with stock options exercised;

(ii)

issued 308,345 shares of common stock to acquire an equal number of DownREIT limited
partnership units;

(iii)

issued 2,306 shares through the Company’s dividend reinvestment plan;

(iv)

issued 122,172 common shares in connection with stock grants;

(v)

issued 10,830 shares of common stock in connection with its
employee stock purchase plan;

(vi)

had 5,910 shares of restricted stock forfeited; and

(vii)

withheld 47,111 shares to satisfy employees’ tax withholding and other liabilities.

In addition, the Company granted 867,113 options for common stock to employees. As required under
SFAS No. 123(R), any deferred compensation related to the Company’s stock option and restricted
stock grants during the year ended December 31, 2006 is not reflected on the Company’s Consolidated
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006 or on the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity,
and will not be reflected until earned as compensation cost.

Dividends per common share were $3.12 for the year ended December 31, 2006, $2.84 for year ended
December 31, 2005, and $2.80 for the year ended December 31, 2004. The average dividend for all
non-redeemed preferred shares during 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $2.18 per share. No preferred shares
were redeemed in 2006, 2005 or 2004.

In 2004, the Company resumed its Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the “DRIP”). The
DRIP allows for holders of the Company’s common stock or preferred stock to purchase shares of
common stock through either reinvested dividends or optional cash payments. The purchase price per
share for newly issued shares of
common stock under the DRIP will be equal to the last reported sale price for a share of the
Company’s common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) on the applicable
investment date.

F-17

5.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

The Company enters into interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements (collectively, the
“Hedging Derivatives”) to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations on its variable rate,
tax-exempt bonds and its variable rate conventional secured debt (collectively, the “Hedged
Debt”). The Company has not entered into any interest rate hedge agreements for its conventional
unsecured debt and does not enter into derivative transactions for trading or other speculative
purposes. The following table summarizes the consolidated Hedging Derivatives at December 31, 2006
(dollars in thousands):

Interest

Interest

Rate Caps

Rate Swaps

Notional balance

$

196,500

$

65,759

Weighted average interest rate

(1)

5.7

%

6.3

%

Weighted average capped interest rate

7.7

%

n/a

Earliest maturity date

Mar-07

Aug-07

Latest maturity date

Apr-11

Jul-10

Estimated liability fair value

$

(78

)

$

(3,084

)

(1)

For interest rate caps, this represents the weighted average interest rate on the
debt.

The Company has determined that its Hedging Derivatives qualify as effective cash flow hedges under
SFAS No. 133, resulting in the Company recording the effective portion of cumulative changes in the
fair value of the Hedging Derivatives in other comprehensive income. Amounts recorded in other
comprehensive income will be reclassified into earnings in the periods in which earnings are
affected by the hedged cash flow. To adjust the Hedging Derivatives to their fair value, the
Company recorded unrealized gains in other comprehensive income of $891, $2,626 and $1,116 during
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These amounts will be reclassified
into earnings in conjunction with the periodic adjustment of the floating rates on the Hedged Debt,
in interest expense, net. The amount reclassified into earnings in 2006, as well as the estimated
amount included in accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2006, expected to be
reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months to offset the variability of cash flows of
the hedged items during this period are not material.

The Company assesses both at inception and on an on-going basis, the effectiveness of qualifying
cash flow hedges. Hedge ineffectiveness, reported as a component of General and Administrative
expenses, did not have a material impact on earnings of the Company for any prior period, and the
Company does not anticipate that it will have a material effect in the future. The fair values of
the Hedging Derivatives are included in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Derivative financial instruments expose the Company to credit risk in the event of nonperformance
by the counterparties under the terms of the Hedging Derivatives. The Company minimizes its credit
risk on these transactions by dealing with major, creditworthy financial institutions which have an
A+ or better credit rating by the Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group. As part of its on-going control
procedures, the Company monitors the credit ratings of counterparties and the exposure of the
Company to any single entity, thus minimizing credit risk concentration. The Company believes the
likelihood of realizing losses from counterparty non-performance is remote.

6.

Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities

The Company accounts for its investments in unconsolidated real estate entities that are not
considered variable interest entities under FIN 46(R) in accordance with EITF Issue No. 04-5, SOP
78-9 and APB 18, and EITF Topic D-46.

During 2006, the Company engaged in the following transactions impacting our investments in
unconsolidated real estate entities.

•

Town Run Associates —

In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company purchased its partner’s
interest in Avalon Run for $58,500. Town Run Associates was formed as a general
partnership in November 1994 to develop, own and operate Avalon Run, a 426 apartment-home
community located in Lawrenceville, New Jersey. Avalon Run is currently a wholly-owned
community and has since been consolidated for financial reporting purposes.

F-18

•

Avalon Terrace, LLC

— In December 2006, the Company and its joint venture partner sold
Avalon Bedford to an unrelated third party for a sales price of $79,100. The Company’s
share of the gain calculated in accordance with GAAP was $6,609 and
is included in equity income of unconsolidated entities on the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other
Comprehensive Income. The Company acquired
Avalon Bedford, a 368 apartment-home community located in Stamford, Connecticut in December
1998. In May 2000, the Company transferred Avalon Bedford to Avalon Terrace, LLC and
subsequently admitted a joint venture partner, while retaining a 25% ownership interest in
this limited liability company for an investment of $5,394 and a right to 50% of cash flow
distributions after achievement of a threshold return.

As of
December 31, 2006, the Company had investments in the following real estate entities:

•

Town Grove, LLC

— The limited liability
corporation was formed in December 1997 to
develop, own and operate Avalon Grove, a 402 apartment-home community located in Stamford,
Connecticut. Since formation of this venture, the Company has
invested $12,600, and
following a preferred return on all contributed equity (which was achieved in 2006), has a
50% ownership and a 50% cash flow and residual economic interest. The Company is
responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Avalon Grove community and is the
management agent subject to the terms of a management agreement. The development of Avalon
Grove was funded through contributions from the Company and the other venture partner, and
therefore Avalon Grove is not subject to any outstanding debt as of December 31, 2006.
This community is unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes and is accounted for
under the equity method.

•

Arna Valley View LP

— In connection with the municipal approval process for the
development of a consolidated community, the Company agreed to participate in the formation
of a limited partnership in February 1999 to develop, finance, own and operate Arna Valley
View, a 101 apartment-home community located in Arlington, Virginia. This community has
affordable rents for 100% of apartment homes related to the tax-exempt bond financing and
tax credits used to finance construction of the community. A subsidiary of the Company is
the general partner of the partnership with a 0.01% ownership interest. The Company is
responsible for the day-to-day operations of the community and is the management agent
subject to the terms of a management agreement. As of December 31, 2006, Arna Valley View
has $5,793 of variable rate, tax-exempt bonds outstanding, which mature in June 2032. In
addition, Arna Valley View has $4,834 of 4% fixed rate county bonds outstanding that mature
in December 2030. Arna Valley View’s debt is neither
guaranteed by, nor recoursed to the
Company. Due to the Company’s limited ownership in this venture and the terms of the
management agreement regarding the rights of the limited partners, it is accounted for
using the cost method.

•

CVP I, LLC

– In February 2004, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with
an unrelated third-party for the development of Avalon Chrystie Place, a 361 apartment-home
community located in New York, New York, for which construction was completed in late 2005.
The Company has contributed $6,270 to this joint venture and holds a 20% equity interest
(with a right to 50% of distributions after achievement of a threshold return, which was
not achieved in 2006). The Company is the managing member of CVP I, LLC, however property
management services at the community are performed by an unrelated third party. In
connection with the construction management services that the Company provided to CVP I,
LLC during the development of Avalon Chrystie Place, the Company provided a construction
completion guarantee to the construction loan lender in order to fulfill their standard
financing requirements related to the construction financing. Upon completion of the
construction of
Avalon Chrystie Place in 2006, the Company was released from all obligations associated with
this guarantee.

As of December 31, 2006, CVP I, LLC has tax-exempt variable rate bonds in the amount of
$117,000 outstanding, which have a permanent credit enhancement and mature in February 2036.
The Company has guaranteed, under limited circumstance, the repayment to the credit
enhancer of any advance in fulfillment of CVP I, LLC’s repayment obligations under the bonds.
The Company has also guaranteed the credit enhancer that CVP I, LLC will obtain a final
certificate of occupancy for the project overall once tenant improvements related to a
retail tenant are complete, which is expected in 2007.

F-19

F-20

MVP I, LLC
has a variable rate $94,400 secured construction loan, of which
$76,739 is outstanding as
of December 31, 2006 and which matures in September 2010, assuming exercise of two one-year
extensions. In conjunction with the construction management services that the Company
provided to MVP I, LLC, the Company has provided a construction
completion guarantee to the construction loan lender in order to fulfill their standard
financing requirements related to construction financing. Under the terms of the
guarantee, in the event of default, the Company would be required to make payment for any
excess cost to complete construction over remaining unused loan proceeds. The obligation
of the Company under this guarantee will terminate once all of the lender’s standard
completion requirements have been satisfied, which the Company expects to occur in 2007.
The estimated fair value of, and the Company’s  obligation under this guarantee,
both at inception and as of December 31, 2006 was not significant and
therefore no liability for this guarantee has been recorded by the
Company at December 31, 2006. This community is unconsolidated for financial reporting
purposes and is accounted for under the equity method.

•

AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P. (the “Fund”)

– In March 2005, the Company admitted
outside investors into the Fund, a private, discretionary investment vehicle, which will
acquire and operate communities in the Company’s markets. The Fund will serve, until March
16, 2008 or until 80% of its committed capital is invested, as the principal vehicle
through which the Company will acquire apartment communities, subject to certain
exceptions. The Fund has nine institutional investors, including the
Company, and a combined equity
capital commitment of $330,000. A significant portion of the investments made in the Fund
by its investors are being made through AvalonBay Value Added Fund, Inc., a Maryland
corporation that qualifies as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the “Fund REIT”).
A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is the general partner of the Fund and has
committed $50,000 to the Fund and the Fund REIT, representing a 15.2% combined general
partner and limited partner equity interest, with $22,944 of this commitment funded as of
December 31, 2006. Under the Fund documents, the Fund has the ability to employ leverage
of up to 65% on a portfolio basis, which, if achieved, would enable the Fund to invest up
to approximately $940,000. Upon the admittance of the outside investors, the Fund held
four communities, containing a total of 879 apartment homes with an aggregate gross real
estate value of $112,852, that were acquired in 2004. Prior to the admittance of outside
investors, the Fund was directly or indirectly wholly-owned by the Company, and therefore
the revenues and expenses, and assets and liabilities of these four communities were
consolidated in the Company’s results of operations and financial position. However, upon
admittance of the outside investors in March 2005, the Company deconsolidated the revenue
and expenses, and assets and liabilities of these four communities and accounts for its
15.2% equity interest in the Fund under the equity method of accounting. The Company
received net proceeds of $87,948 as reimbursement for acquiring and warehousing these
communities. The Company
receives asset management fees, property management fees and redevelopment fees, as well as
a promoted interest if certain thresholds are met (which were not achieved in 2006).

As of December 31, 2006, the Fund owns the following 13 communities, subject to certain
mortgage debt. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, the Fund has $57,400 outstanding under
its variable rate credit facility, which matures in January 2008. The Company has not
guaranteed any of the Fund debt, nor does it have any obligation to fund this debt should
the Fund be unable to do so.

F-21

In addition, as part of the formation of the Fund, the Company has provided to one of the
limited partners a guarantee. The guarantee provides that, if, upon final liquidation of
the Fund, the total amount of all distributions to that partner during the life of the Fund
(whether from operating cash flow or property sales) does not equal the total capital
contributions made by that partner, then the Company will pay the partner an amount equal to
the shortfall, but in no event more than 10% of the total capital contributions made by the
partner (maximum of approximately $3,400 as of December 31, 2006). As of December 31, 2006,
the fair value of the real estate assets owned by the Fund is considered adequate to cover
such potential payment under a liquidation scenario. The estimated
fair value of, and the Company’s obligation under this guarantee, both at
inception and as of December 31, 2006 was not significant and
therefore the Company has not recorded any obligation for this guarantee as
of December 31, 2006.

F-22

The following is a combined summary of the financial position of the entities accounted for using
the equity method, as of the dates presented:

12-31-06

12-31-05

Assets:

Real estate, net

$

707,227

$

520,556

Other assets

55,716

40,485

Total assets

$

762,943

$

561,041

Liabilities and partners’ capital:

Mortgage notes payable and credit facility

$

510,784

$

332,760

Other liabilities

33,505

26,745

Partners’ capital

218,654

201,536

Total liabilities and partners’ capital

$

762,943

$

561,041

The following is a combined summary of the operating results of the entities accounted for using
the equity method, for the years presented:

For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

Rental income

$

67,207

$

35,826

$

21,148

Operating and other expenses

(31,281

)

(19,582

)

(8,291

)

Gain on Sale of  Communities

26,661

—

—

Interest expense, net

(23,142

)

(7,648

)

(1,786

)

Depreciation expense

(18,054

)

(8,482

)

(4,003

)

Net income

$

21,391

$


$

7,068

In March 2005, the Company purchased its joint venture partner’s 75% interest in AvalonBay
Redevelopment, LLC, the limited liability company that owns Avalon on the Sound, which was
developed through the joint venture in 2001. Prior to December 31, 2004, the Company had a
repurchase option for Avalon on the Sound and accounted for its investment as a profit-sharing
arrangement as required by SFAS No. 66, “Accounting for Sales of Real Estate.” The income
allocated to the controlling partner is shown as venture partner interest in profit-sharing on the
Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The repurchase option expired in December 2004, and therefore as of December
31, 2004 and for the three months ended March 31, 2005, the Company accounted for its 25% interest
in Avalon on the Sound under the equity method of accounting. Due to the purchase of the remaining
75% equity interest, this entity was consolidated as of April 1, 2005.

In conjunction with the acquisition and development of the investments in unconsolidated entities,
the Company incurred costs in excess of its equity in the underlying net assets of the respective
investments. These costs represent $7,491 at December 31, 2006
and $8,806 at December 31, 2005 of
the respective investment balances.

F-23

Investments in Unconsolidated Non-Real Estate Entities

In February 2005, the Company sold its interest in a technology venture that was accounted for
under the cost method. As a result of this transaction, the Company received net proceeds of
approximately $6,700 and recognized a gain on the sale of this investment of $6,252, which is
reflected in equity in income of unconsolidated entities on the accompanying Consolidated Statement
of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2005. Under the terms
of the sale, certain proceeds were escrowed to secure the purchaser’s rights to indemnification.
Any amounts not used for this purpose were distributed to the former investors in the venture in
2006. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recognized $433 for the final installment
of the gain on this sale upon release of this escrow.

The following is a summary of the Company’s equity in income of unconsolidated entities for the
years presented:

For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

Town Grove, LLC

$

1,457

$

1,286

$


CVP I, LLC

(68

)

(339

)

—

Town Run Associates




Avalon Terrace, LLC

6,736


(28

)

MVP I, LLC

(662

)

(57

)

—

AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P.

(799

)

(341

)

—

AvalonBay Redevelopment, LLC

—


—

Rent.com


6,252


Constellation Real Technologies


—

—

Total

$

7,455

$

7,198

$

1,100

7.

Real Estate Disposition Activities

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company sold four communities, containing a total of
1,036 apartment homes, including one community that was previously held by a joint venture entity
(see Note 6, “Investments in Unconsolidated Entities”). These communities were sold for a gross
sales price of approximately $261,850, resulting in net proceeds of $218,492 and a GAAP gain of
$104,020. Details regarding the community asset sales are summarized in the following table:

Period

Apartment

Gross sales

Net

Community Name

Location

of sale

homes

Debt

price

proceeds

Avalon Estates

Boston, MA

Q106


—

34,550

33,563

Avalon Cupertino

San Jose, CA

Q106


—

88,000

86,602

Avalon Corners

Stamford, CT

Q206


—

60,200

58,248

Avalon Bedford

(1)

Stamford, CT

Q406


37,200

79,100

40,079

Total of all 2006 asset sales

1,036

$

37,200

$

261,850

$

218,492

Total of all 2005 asset sales

1,305

$

—

$

351,450

$

344,185

Total of all 2004 asset sales

1,360

$

38,735

$

241,050

$

210,001

(1)

The Company held a 25% ownership interest and right to 50% of cash flow
distributions after achievement of a threshold return for this community

As of December 31, 2006, the Company had one community, Avalon Del Rey, that qualified as held
for sale under the provisions of SFAS No. 144. In 2006, the
Company admitted a third-party partner
into the joint venture entity that owns Avalon Del Rey (see Note 6, “Investments in Unconsolidated
Entities”). However, due to the operating guarantee provided to the joint venture partner, the
Company will account for its investment under the deposit method as required by SFAS No. 66,
“Accounting for Sales of Real Estate.” As a result, the Company has classified the real estate
assets (which are net of an impairment charge taken on the land in 2002, as well as accumulated
depreciation recorded through December 31, 2006) and the related liabilities for Avalon Del Rey as
held for sale, as separate captions in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, due to the continuing involvement of the Company
through its 30% ownership interest and its role as the managing member in the venture, Avalon Del
Rey has been and will continue to be reported as a component of continuing operations on the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-24

Also, in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 144, the operations for any communities sold
from January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006 have been presented as discontinued operations in
the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Accordingly, certain reclassifications have
been made in prior periods to reflect discontinued operations consistent with current period
presentation.

The following is a summary of income from discontinued operations for the periods presented:

For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

Rental income

$

1,787

$

26,867

$

48,018

Operating and other expenses

(639

)

(8,684

)

(15,646

)

Interest expense, net

—

—

(525

)

Minority interest expense

—

—

(37

)

Depreciation expense

—

(3,241

)

(10,676

)

Income from discontinued operations

$

1,148

$

14,942

$

21,134

The Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets include other assets (excluding net real estate) of
$1,558 and $1,599, and other liabilities of $42,985 and $38,352 as of December 31, 2006 and
December 31, 2005, respectively, relating to real estate assets sold or held for sale.

The Company sold three parcels of land, one located in Jersey City, New Jersey, one in Danvers,
Massachusetts, and one in Bedford, Massachusetts, for an aggregate gross sales price of $19,635 and
an aggregate GAAP gain of $13,519. The Company had gains on the Sales of land parcels of $4,479
in 2005, and $1,138 in 2004.

8.

Commitments and Contingencies

Employment Agreements and Arrangements

As of December 31, 2006, the Company had employment agreements with four executive officers. The
employment agreements provide for severance payments and generally provide for accelerated vesting
of stock options and restricted stock in the event of a termination of employment (except for a
termination by the Company with cause or a voluntary termination by the employee). The current
terms of these agreements end on dates that vary between December 2007 and November 2008. The
employment agreements provide for one-year automatic renewals (two years in the case of the Chief
Executive Officer (“CEO”)) after the initial term unless an advance notice of non-renewal is
provided by either party. Upon a notice of non-renewal by the Company, each of the officers may
terminate his employment and receive a severance payment.

F-25

Upon a change in control, the
agreements provide for an automatic extension of up to three years from the date of the change in
control. The employment agreements provide for base salary and incentive compensation in the form
of cash awards, stock options and stock grants subject to the discretion of, and attainment of
performance goals established by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

The Company’s stock incentive plan, as described in Note 10, “Stock-Based Compensation Plans,”
provides that upon an employee’s Retirement (as defined in the plan documents) from the Company,
all outstanding stock options and restricted shares of stock held by the employee will vest, and
the employee will have up to 12 months to exercise any options held upon retirement. Under the
plan, Retirement means a termination of employment, other than for cause, after attainment of age
50, provided that (i) the employee has worked for the Company for at least 10 years, (ii) the
employee’s age at Retirement plus years of employment with the Company equals at least 70, (iii)
the employee provides at least six months written notice of his intent to retire, and (iv) the
employee enters into a one year non-compete and employee non-solicitation agreement.

The Company also has an Officer Severance Program (the “Program”) for the benefit of those officers
of the Company who do not have employment agreements. Under the Program, in the event an officer
who is not otherwise covered by a severance arrangement is terminated (other than for cause) within
two years following a change in control (as defined) of the Company, such officer will generally
receive a cash lump sum payment equal to the sum of such officer’s base salary and cash bonus, as
well as accelerated vesting of stock options and restricted stock. Costs related to the Company’s
employment agreements and the Program are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting
for Contingencies,” and therefore are recognized when considered by management to be probable and
estimable.

Construction and Development Contingencies

In connection with the pursuit of a Development Right in Pleasant Hill, California,
$125,000 in bond financing was issued by the Contra Costa County Redevelopment Agency (the
“Agency”) in connection with the possible future construction of a multifamily rental community by
PHVP I, LLC. The bond proceeds were immediately invested in their entirety in a guaranteed
investment contract (“GIC”) administered by a trustee. This Development Right is planned as a
mixed-use development, with residential, for-sale, retail and office components. The bond proceeds
will remain in the GIC until at least June 1, 2007, but no later than December 5, 2007, at which
time a loan will be made to PHVP I, LLC to fund construction of the multifamily portion of the
development, or the bonds will be redeemed by the Agency. Although the Company does not have any
equity or economic interest in PHVP I, LLC at this time, the Company holds an option to make a
capital contribution to PHVP I, LLC in exchange for a 99% general partner interest in the entity.
Should the Company decide not to exercise this option, the bonds will be redeemed, and a loan will
not be made to PHVP I, LLC. The bonds are payable from the proceeds of the GIC and are
non-recourse to both PHVP I, LLC and to the Company. There is no loan payable outstanding by PHVP
I, LLC as of December 31, 2006.

In addition, as part of providing construction management services to PHVP I, LLC for the
construction of a public garage, the Company has provided a construction completion guarantee to
the related lender in order to fulfill their standard financing requirements related to the garage
construction financing. The Company’s obligations under this guarantee will terminate following construction
completion of the garage once all of the lender’s standard completion requirements have been
satisfied, which the Company currently expect to occur in 2008. In the third quarter of 2006, significant
modifications were requested by the local transit authority to change the garage structure design. The Company does not believe that the requested design changes will impact the construction schedule.
However, it is expected that these changes will increase the original budget by an amount up to
$5,000. The Company believe that substantially all potential additional amounts are reimbursable from
unrelated third parties. At this time, the Company does not believe
that it is probable that it will incur any
additional costs. The estimated fair value of, and the Company’s obligation
under this guarantee, both at inception and as of December 31, 2006
was not significant and therefore the Company has not recorded any obligation
for this guarantee as of December 31, 2006.

F-26

Legal Contingencies

The Company is currently involved in litigation alleging that 100 communities currently or formerly
owned by us violate the accessibility requirements of the Fair Housing Act and the Americans with
Disabilities Act. The lawsuit, Equal Rights Center v. AvalonBay
Communities, Inc., was filed on
September 23, 2005 in the federal district court in Maryland. The plaintiff seeks compensatory and
punitive damages in unspecified amounts as well as injunctive relief (such as modification of
existing communities), an award of attorneys’ fees, expenses and costs of suit. The Company has
filed a motion to dismiss all or parts of the suit, which has not been ruled on yet by the court.
The Company cannot predict or determine the outcome of this lawsuit, nor is it reasonably possible
to estimate the amount of loss, if any, that would be associated with an adverse decision.

During
2006, the Company determined that contaminated soil from imported
fill was delivered to its
Avalon Lyndhurst development site by third parties. The contaminants exceeded allowable levels for
residential use under New Jersey state and local regulations. The remediation effort is
substantially complete. The Company has estimated that the net cost associated with this
remediation effort after considering insurance proceeds received to date, including costs
associated with construction delays, is expected to be approximately $7,500. The Company is
pursuing the recovery of these additional net costs through its insurance as well as from the third
parties involved, but no assurance can be given as to the amount or timing of reimbursements to the
Company. The Company is recording these incremental costs as they are incurred, and potential
recoveries as they become certain or are received. Although the estimated costs to complete
construction of this community exceed the original construction budget, the Company does not expect
that, upon completion, there will be an impairment in value of this asset which would require a
write down in the carrying value. The Company will continue to review this assessment based on
changes in circumstances or market conditions.

In
addition, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of
business. These matters are frequently covered by insurance. If it has been determined that a loss is
probable to occur, the estimated amount of the loss is expensed in the financial statements. While
the resolution of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty,
management currently believes the final
outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or
results of operations of the Company. However, if these matters are
resolved unfavorably, they may have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position and results of operations.

Lease Obligations

The Company owns nine apartment communities which are located on land subject to land leases
expiring between November 2028 and March 2142. In addition, the Company leases certain office space.
These leases are accounted for as operating leases under SFAS No. 13, “Accounting for Leases.”
These leases have varying escalation terms, and three of these leases have purchase options
exercisable between 2006 and 2052. The Company incurred costs of $4,231, $4,486 and $4,399 in the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, related to these leases.

The following table details the future minimum lease payments under the Company’s current leases:

Payments due by period






Thereafter

$8,045

$8,288

$8,123

$8,091

$8,065

$1,828,108

9.

Segment Reporting

The Company’s reportable operating segments include Established Communities, Other Stabilized
Communities, and Development/Redevelopment Communities. Annually as of January 1

st

, the
Company determines which of its communities fall into each of these categories and maintains that
classification, unless disposition plans regarding a community change, throughout the year for the
purpose of reporting segment operations.

•

Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities)

are communities where a
comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as
these communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the
beginning of the prior year. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Established
Communities are communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, had
stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of January 1, 2005, are not conducting or
planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities and are not held for sale or
planned for disposition within the current year. A community is considered to have
stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii)
the one-year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment.

F-27

•

Other Stabilized Communities

includes all other completed communities that have
stabilized occupancy, as defined above. Other Stabilized Communities do not include
communities that are conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment
activities within the current year.

•

Development/Redevelopment Communities

consists of communities that are under
construction and have not received a final certificate of occupancy, communities where
substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current year
and communities under lease-up, that had not reached stabilized occupancy, as defined
above, as of January 1, 2006.

In addition, the Company owns land held for future development and has other corporate assets that
are not allocated to an operating segment.

SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,” requires that
segment disclosures present the measure(s) used by the chief operating decision maker for purposes
of assessing such segments’ performance. The Company’s chief operating decision maker is comprised
of several members of its executive management team who use Net Operating Income (“NOI”) as the
primary financial measure for Established Communities and Other Stabilized Communities. NOI is
defined by the Company as total revenue less direct property operating expenses. Although the
Company considers NOI a useful measure of a community’s or communities’ operating performance, NOI
should not be considered an alternative to net income or net cash flow from operating activities,
as determined in accordance with GAAP. NOI excludes a number of income and expense categories as
detailed in the reconciliation of NOI to net income.

A reconciliation of NOI to net income for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is as
follows:

For the year ended

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

Net income

$

278,399

$

322,378

$

219,745

Indirect operating expenses, net of corporate income

28,809

26,675

26,612

Investments and investment management

7,033

4,834

4,690

Interest expense, net

111,046

127,099

131,103

General and administrative expense

24,767

25,761

18,074

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

(7,455

)

(7,198

)

(1,100

)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships


1,481


Venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

—

1,178

Depreciation expense

162,896

158,822

151,991

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

—

(4,547

)

Gain on sale of real estate assets

(110,930

)

(199,766

)

(122,425

)

Income from discontinued operations

(1,148

)

(14,942

)

(21,134

)

Net operating income

$

493,990

$

445,144

$

404,337

The primary performance measure for communities under development or redevelopment depends on the
stage of completion. While under development, management monitors actual construction costs
against budgeted costs as well as lease-up pace and rent levels compared to budget.

The table on the following page provides details of the Company’s segment information as of the
dates specified. The segments are classified based on the individual community’s status as of the
beginning of the given calendar year. Therefore, each year the composition of communities within
each business segment is adjusted. Accordingly, the amounts between years are not directly
comparable. The accounting policies applicable to the operating segments described above are the
same as those described in Note 1, “Organization and Significant Accounting Policies.” Segment
information for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 has been adjusted for the
communities that were sold from January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006 as described in Note 7,
“Real Estate Disposition Activities.”

F-28

Total

% NOI change

Gross

revenue

NOI

from prior year

real estate (1)

For the year ended December 31, 2006

Established

Northeast

$

204,374

$

137,379

5.1

%

$

1,263,190

Mid-Atlantic

100,462

72,033

12.5

%

591,996

Midwest

11,478

7,121

7.4

%

92,408

Pacific Northwest

33,103

21,819

13.0

%

316,089

Northern California

153,151

107,135

11.6

%

1,441,418

Southern California

57,632

41,572

9.1

%

373,421

Total Established

560,200

387,059

9.1

%

4,078,522

Other Stabilized

93,878

59,432

n/a

865,338

Development / Redevelopment

76,356

47,499

n/a

1,324,929

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

209,568

Non-allocated (2)

6,866

n/a

n/a

35,183

Total

$

737,300

$

493,990

10.9

%

$

6,513,540

For the year ended December 31, 2005

Established

Northeast

$

167,636

$

111,734

3.5

%

$

1,062,981

Mid-Atlantic

68,575

48,613

3.9

%

387,801

Midwest

11,113

6,627

7.1

%

91,755

Pacific Northwest

30,080

19,312

8.0

%

315,331

Northern California

146,432

99,769

3.5

%

1,489,363

Southern California

48,800

35,319

6.7

%

331,315

Total Established

472,636

321,374

4.2

%

3,678,546

Other Stabilized

77,552

50,621

n/a

653,399

Development / Redevelopment

116,144

73,149

n/a

1,158,482

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

179,739

Non-allocated (2)

4,348

n/a

n/a

30,741

Total

$

670,680

$

445,144

10.1

%

$

5,700,907

For the year ended December 31, 2004

Established

Northeast

$

135,059

$

89,547

(2.5

%)

$

722,482

Mid-Atlantic

51,390

36,316

(0.2

%)

273,774

Midwest

10,734

6,188

6.8

%

91,121

Pacific Northwest

28,836

17,874

1.1

%

314,717

Northern California

126,196

87,067

(5.9

%)

1,270,848

Southern California

56,124

39,634

1.8

%

401,204

Total Established

408,339

276,626

(1.2

%)

3,074,146

Other Stabilized

111,894

71,744

n/a

1,068,859

Development / Redevelopment

93,096

55,967

n/a

1,019,396

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

156,350

Non-allocated (2)


n/a

n/a

27,401

Total

$

613,844

$

404,337

9.7

%

$

5,346,152

(1)

Does not include gross real estate assets for discontinued
operations of $65,075, $202,261
and $350,992 as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively.

(2)

Revenue represents third-party management, accounting and developer fees and miscellaneous
income which are not allocated to a reportable segment.

F-29

10.

Stock-Based Compensation Plans

The Company has a stock incentive plan (the “1994 Plan”), which was amended and restated on
December 8, 2004, and amended on February 9, 2006 and December 6, 2006. Individuals who are
eligible to participate in the 1994 Plan include officers, other associates, outside directors and
other key persons of the Company and its subsidiaries who are responsible for or contribute to the
management, growth or profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries. The 1994 Plan authorizes
(i) the grant of stock options that qualify as incentive stock options (“ISOs”) under Section 422
of the Internal Revenue Code, (ii) the grant of stock options that do not so qualify, (iii) grants
of shares of restricted and unrestricted common stock, (iv) grants of deferred stock awards, (v)
performance share awards entitling the recipient to acquire shares of common stock and (vi)
dividend equivalent rights.

Shares of
common stock of 1,791,861, 2,066,308 and 2,311,249 were available for future option or
restricted stock grant awards under the 1994 Plan as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Annually on January 1

st

, the maximum number available for issuance under
the 1994 Plan is increased by between 0.48% and 1.00% of the total number of shares of common stock
and DownREIT units actually outstanding on such date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum
number of shares of stock for which ISOs may be issued under the 1994 Plan shall not exceed
2,500,000 and no awards shall be granted under the 1994 Plan after May 11, 2011. Options and
restricted stock granted under the 1994 Plan vest and expire over varying periods, as determined by
the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

Before the Merger, Avalon had adopted its 1995 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Avalon 1995 Incentive
Plan”). Under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan, a maximum number of 3,315,054 shares (or 2,546,956
shares as adjusted for the Merger) of common stock were issuable, plus any shares of common stock
represented by awards under Avalon’s 1993 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the “Avalon 1993 Plan”)
that were forfeited, canceled, reacquired by Avalon, satisfied without the issuance of common stock
or otherwise terminated (other than by exercise). Options granted to officers, non-employee
directors and associates under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan generally vested over a three-year
term, expire ten years from the date of grant and are exercisable at the market price on the date
of grant.

In connection with the Merger, the exercise prices and the number of options under the Avalon 1995
Incentive Plan and the Avalon 1993 Plan were adjusted to reflect the equivalent Bay shares and
exercise prices based on the 0.7683 share conversion ratio used in the Merger. Officers,
non-employee directors and associates with Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan or Avalon 1993 Plan options
may exercise their adjusted number of options for the Company’s common stock at the adjusted
exercise price. As of June 4, 1998, the date of the Merger, options and other awards ceased to be
granted under the Avalon 1993 Plan or the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan. Accordingly, there were no
options to purchase shares of common stock available for grant under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan
or the Avalon 1993 Plan at December 31, 2006, 2005 or 2004.

F-30

Information with respect to stock options granted under the 1994 Plan, the Avalon 1995 Incentive
Plan and the Avalon 1993 Plan is as follows:

Weighted

Avalon 1995

Weighted

average

and Avalon

average

1994 Plan

exercise price

1993 Plan

exercise price

shares

per share

shares

per share

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2003

2,979,265

$

39.57

473,962

$

37.32

Exercised

(1,167,679

)

39.06

(287,700

)

37.05

Granted

545,809

50.71

—

—

Forfeited

(80,577

)

43.98

—

—

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2004

2,276,818

$

42.39

186,262

$

36.23

Exercised

(743,524

)

41.89

(159,638

)

37.82

Granted

725,988

70.09

—

—

Forfeited

(29,504

)

55.66

—

—

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2005

2,229,778

$

51.40

26,624

$

37.09

Exercised

(592,308

)

50.09

(22,384

)

37.15

Granted

867,113

99.28

—

—

Forfeited

(17,344

)

79.72

—

—

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2006

2,487,239

$

69.65

4,240

$

36.81

Options Exercisable:

December 31, 2004

1,366,009

$

39.72

186,262

$

38.15

December 31, 2005

1,158,591

$

42.45

26,624

$

37.09

December 31, 2006

1,041,360

$

47.99

4,240

$

36.81

For options outstanding at December 31, 2006 under the 1994 Plan, 350,919 options had exercise
prices ranging between $31.50 and $39.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.0
years, 300,697 options had exercise prices ranging between $40.00 and $49.99 and a weighted average
remaining contractual life of 4.7 years, 336,181 options had exercise prices between $50.00 and
$59.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 7.1 years, 637,142 options had exercise
prices ranging between $69.93 and $79.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.1
years, 851,800 options had exercise prices ranging between $81.42 and $99.99 and a weighted average
remaining contractual life of 9.1 years, and 10,500 options had exercise prices between $103.00 and
$123.03 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of
9.5 years. Options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2006 for the Avalon 1993 and Avalon 1995
Plans had exercise prices ranging from $35.31
to $37.66 and a weighted average contractual life of approximately
one year and an intrinsic value of $395.
Options outstanding under the 1994 Plan at December 31, 2006 had an intrinsic value of $153,922.
Options exercisable at December 31, 2006 under the
1994 plan had a weighted average contractual life of 5.3 years and an
intrinsic value of $85,454. The intrinsic value of options exercised
during 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $49,440, $80,271 and $133,003, respectively.

The weighted average fair value of the options granted during 2006 is estimated at $11.47 per share
on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted
average assumptions: dividend yield of 5.0% over the expected life of the option, volatility of
17.61%, risk-free interest rates of 4.55% and an expected life of approximately 7 years. The
weighted average fair value of the options granted during 2005 is estimated at $6.40 per share on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions: dividend yield of 5.5% over the expected life of the option, volatility of 17.56%,
risk-free interest rates of 3.91% and an expected life of approximately 7 years. The weighted
average fair value of the options granted during 2004 is estimated at $3.87 per share on the date
of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions: dividend yield of 6.05% over the expected life of the option, volatility of 17.28%,
risk-free interest rates of 3.58% and an expected life of approximately 7 years. The cost related
to stock-based employee compensation for employee stock options included in the determination of
net income is based on estimated forfeitures for the given year. Estimated forfeitures are
adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures at the end of the vesting period.

The
Company issued restricted stock as part of its stock-based
compensation plan during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004. Compensation cost is recognized over
the requisite service period, which varies, but does not exceed five
years. The fair value of restricted stock is the closing stock price
on the date of the grant. Provisions of SFAS 123(R) require the
Company to recognize compensation cost taking into consideration
retirement eligibility. The cost related to stock-based compensation
for restricted stock included in the determination of net income is
based on actual forfeitures for the given year. Restricted stock
awards typically vest over a five year period with the exception of
accelerated vesting provisions, which are infrequent and occur on a
case by case basis. Restricted stock vesting during 2006 had fair
values ranging from $36.66 to $102.88 per share. The total fair value of shares vested was $7,655, $8,932, and $4,859
for the periods ended December 31, 2006, December 31, 2005 and
December 31, 2004 respectively.

F-31

Total compensation cost recognized in income relating to deferred compensation for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $10,095, $4,292 and $2,593
respectively. Total capitalized compensation cost for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $4,014, $4,046 and $2,339 respectively. At December 31, 2006,
there was a total of $8,490 and $11,560 in unrecognized compensation cost for unvested stock
options and unvested restricted stock, respectively. The unrecognized compensation cost for stock
options does not take into account estimated forfeitures. The unrecognized compensation cost for
unvested stock options and restricted stock is expected to be recognized over a weighted average
period of 1.9 years and 2.5 years, respectively.

In October 1996, the Company adopted the 1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan (as
amended, the “ESPP”). Initially 1,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under
this plan. There are currently 789,312 shares remaining available for issuance under the plan.
Full-time employees of the Company generally are eligible to participate in the ESPP if, as of the
last day of the applicable election period, they have been employed by the Company for at least one
month. All other employees of the Company are eligible to participate
provided that, as of the
applicable election period they have been employed by the Company for
12 months. Under the
ESPP, eligible employees are permitted to acquire shares of the Company’s common stock through
payroll deductions, subject to maximum purchase limitations. The purchase period is a period of
seven months beginning each April 1 and ending each October 30. The purchase price for common
stock purchased under the plan is 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of the Company’s
common stock on the first day of the applicable purchase period or the last day of the applicable
purchase period. The offering dates, purchase dates and duration of purchase periods may be
changed, if the change is announced prior to the beginning of the affected date or purchase
period. The Company issued 10,830 shares, 13,372 shares and 14,476 shares and recognized
compensation expense of $173, $134 and $109 under the ESPP for the years ended December 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company accounts for transactions under the ESPP using the fair
value method prescribed under SFAS No. 123(R), as further discussed in Note 1, “Organization and
Significant Accounting Policies.”

11.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with various financial institutions and may at times
exceed the applicable Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation limit. The Company monitors credit
ratings of these financial institutions and the concentration of cash and cash equivalent balances
with any one financial institution and believes the likelihood of realizing material losses from
the excess of cash and cash equivalent balances over insurance limits is remote.

The following estimated fair values of financial instruments were determined by management using
available market information and established valuation methodologies, including discounted cash
flow. Accordingly, the estimates presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the
Company could realize on disposition of the financial instruments. The use of different market
assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value
amounts.

•

Cash equivalents, rents receivable, accounts and construction payable and accrued expenses, and other
liabilities are carried at their face amounts, which reasonably approximate their fair
values.

•

Bond indebtedness and notes payable with an aggregate
outstanding per amount of approximately
$2,829,000 and $2,268,000 had an estimated aggregate fair value of $2,940,000 and
$2,394,000 at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

•

The Company reports all derivative instruments at for value
in accordance with SFAS No. 133, as amended. See Note 5,
“Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” for
further discussions.

F-32

12.

Related Party Arrangements

Unconsolidated Entities

The Company manages unconsolidated real estate entities for which it receives asset management,
property management, development and redevelopment fee revenue. From these entities, the Company
received fees of $6,259, $4,304 and $604 in the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. These fees are included in management, development and other fees on the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income.

In addition, in connection with the construction management services that the Company provided to
MVP I, LLC, the entity that owns and developed Avalon at Mission Bay North II, the Company funds
certain construction costs that are expected to be reimbursed through construction financing within
30 to 60 days. Construction was completed in 2005, and depending on the timing of such funding,
the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets may reflect a corresponding receivable in prepaid
expenses and other assets or a corresponding liability in accrued expenses and other liabilities.
The Company has recorded receivables in the amounts of $5,654 as of December 31, 2006 and $6,653
as of December 31, 2005, from MVP I, LLC. The Company expects to be reimbursed through draws on a
construction loan within 30 to 60 days.

Director Compensation

The 1994 Plan provides that directors of the Company who are also employees receive no additional
compensation for their services as a director. On May 14, 2003, the Company’s Board of Directors
approved an amendment to the 1994 Plan pursuant to which each non-employee director would receive,
following the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and each annual meeting thereafter, (i) a number
of shares of restricted stock (or deferred stock awards) having a value of $100 based on the last
reported sale price of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) on the fifth
business day following the prior year’s annual meeting and (ii) $30 cash, payable in quarterly
installments of $7.5. A non-employee director may elect to receive all or a portion of such cash
payment in the form of a deferred stock award. In addition, the Lead Independent Director receives
an annual fee of $30 payable in equal monthly installments of $2.5. In February 2006, the
Company’s Board of Directors approved another amendment to the 1994 Plan under which (i) following
the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders the cash payment was adjusted to $40, payable in
quarterly installments of $10 and (ii) following the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the
number of shares of restricted stock (or deferred stock awards) will be calculated based on the
closing price on the day of the award (rather than the closing price on the award date of the prior
year). The Company recorded non-employee director compensation expense relating to the restricted
stock grants, deferred stock awards and stock options in the amount of $1,013, $966 and $940 in the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively as a
component of general and administrative expenses. Deferred compensation relating to these
restricted stock grants, deferred stock awards and stock options was $778 and $579 on December 31,
2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively.

F-33

13.

Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

The following summary represents the quarterly results of operations for the years ended December
31, 2006 and 2005:

For the three months ended

3-31-06

6-30-06

9-30-06

12-31-06

Total revenue

$

175,158

$

180,675

$

187,667

$

193,800

Income from continuing operations

(1)

$

47,582

$

37,906

$

45,076

$

49,276

Income from discontinued operations

(1)

$

66,495

$

32,063

—

—

Net income available to common stockholders

$

111,902

$

67,794

$

42,901

$

47,101

Net income
per common share — basic

(2)

$

1.52

$

0.91

$

0.58

$

0.63

Net income
per common share — diluted

(2)

$

1.49

$

0.90

$

0.57

$

0.62

For the three months ended

3-31-05

6-30-05

9-30-05

12-31-05

Total revenue

$

161,245

$

165,586

$

170,751

$

173,098

Income from continuing operations

(1)

$

27,861

$

29,977

$

26,885

$

27,426

Income from discontinued operations

(1)

$

41,749

$

26,934

$

72,243

$

69,303

Net income available to common stockholders

$

67,435

$

54,736

$

96,953

$

94,554

Net income
per common share — basic

(2)

$

0.93

$

0.75

$

1.32

$

1.29

Net income
per common share — diluted

(2)

$

0.92

$

0.74

$

1.30

$

1.26

(1)

Amounts may not equal previously reported results due to
reclassification between income from continuing operations and income
from discontinued operations.

(2)

Amounts may not equal full year results due to rounding.

14.

Subsequent Events

In January 2007, the Company filed a new shelf registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, allowing the Company to sell an undetermined number or amount of certain debt
and equity securities as defined in the prospectus. In addition, in conjunction with its inclusion
in the S&P 500 Index in January 2007, the Company issued 4,600,000 shares of its common stock at
$129.30 per share. Net proceeds in the amount of approximately $594,000 will be used for general
corporate purposes.

In January 2007, the Company purchased a parcel of land located in New York, NY for $70,000. The
Company expects to begin construction on this parcel of a 628
apartment-home community in the
fourth quarter of 2007.

In January 2007, the Fund acquired Centerpoint, a newly constructed high-rise tower and separate,
recently renovated historic mid-rise buildings located within a single downtown city block of
Baltimore, MD. Centerpoint was acquired for a purchase price of $78,500. The community contains a
total of 392 apartment homes and approximately 33,000 square feet of retail space.

F-34

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion /

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

Acquisition

Current Communities

Avalon at Bedford Center

4,238

20,477


4,238

20,478

24,716


23,953

—


Avalon at Center Place

—

26,816

1,928

—

28,744

28,744

9,561

19,183

—

1991/1997

Avalon at Crane Brook

12,381

42,298


12,381

42,400

54,781

3,569

51,212

33,535


Avalon at Faxon Park

1,136

14,001


1,136

14,521

15,657

4,540

11,117

—


Avalon at Flanders Hill

3,572

33,504


3,572

33,630

37,202

5,198

32,004

21,245


Avalon at Lexington

2,124

12,599

1,311

2,124

13,910

16,034

5,898

10,136

12,467


Avalon at Newton Highlands

11,038

45,527


11,038

45,626

56,664

5,385

51,279

37,650


Avalon at Prudential Center

25,811

104,399

26,443

25,811

130,842

156,653

34,972

121,681

—

1968/1998

Avalon at Stevens Pond

10,704

43,506


10,704

43,581

54,285

5,005

49,280

—


Avalon at The Pinehills I

3,623

16,292


3,623

16,320

19,943

1,361

18,582

—


Avalon Essex

5,230

16,303


5,230

16,587

21,817

4,105

17,712

—


Avalon Ledges

2,627

33,443


2,627

33,740

36,367

5,515

30,852

18,635


Avalon Oaks

2,129

18,656


2,129

19,128

21,257

5,357

15,900

17,205


Avalon Oaks West

3,303

13,467


3,303

13,541

16,844

2,430

14,414

17,036


Avalon Orchards

2,975

18,037


2,975

18,175

21,150

3,134

18,016

19,883


Avalon Summit

1,743

14,670


1,743

15,602

17,345

5,747

11,598

—

1986/1996

Avalon West


9,881



10,389

11,332

3,702

7,630

8,179


Essex Place

4,643

19,007


4,643

19,084

23,727

1,571

22,156

—


Avalon at Greyrock Place

13,819

56,499


13,819

56,574

70,393

8,883

61,510

—


Avalon Danbury

4,905

30,520


4,905

30,549

35,454

1,573

33,881

—


Avalon Darien

6,922

34,594


6,922

34,597

41,519

3,857

37,662

—


Avalon Gates

4,414

31,268

1,423

4,414

32,691

37,105

10,820

26,285

—


Avalon Glen

5,956

23,993

2,194

5,956

26,187

32,143

11,465

20,678

—


Avalon Haven

1,264

12,491


1,264

12,723

13,987

3,066

10,921

—


Avalon Milford I

8,746

22,695

(0

)

8,746

22,695

31,441

1,931

29,510

—


Avalon New Canaan

4,835

19,485


4,835

19,529

24,364

3,172

21,192

—


Avalon on Stamford Harbor

10,836

51,989


10,836

52,050

62,886

8,328

54,558

—


Avalon Orange

2,108

19,983


2,108

19,988

22,096

1,282

20,814

—


Avalon Springs

2,116

14,664


2,116

15,078

17,194

5,105

12,089

—


Avalon Valley

2,277

23,781


2,277

24,033

26,310

6,525

19,785

—


Avalon Walk I & II

9,102

48,796

7,563

9,102

56,359

65,461

21,389

44,072

—

1992/1994

Avalon at Glen Cove South

7,871

59,969


7,871

60,031

67,902

5,150

62,752

—


Avalon Commons

4,679

28,509


4,679

29,036

33,715

9,454

24,261

—


Avalon Court

9,228

50,021


9,228

50,594

59,822

14,172

45,650

—

1997/2000

Avalon Pines I

6,178

40,564

(205

)

6,178

40,359

46,537

2,625

43,912

—


Avalon Pines II

2,943

20,923


2,943

20,923

23,866


23,310

—


Avalon Towers

3,118

12,709

5,451

3,118

18,160

21,278

6,102

15,176

—

1990/1995

Avalon at Edgewater

14,529

60,240


14,529

60,685

75,214

11,184

64,030

—


Avalon at Florham Park

6,647

34,909


6,647

35,169

41,816

7,842

33,974

—


Avalon Cove

8,760

82,442

1,670

8,760

84,112

92,872

28,326

64,546

—


Avalon at Freehold

4,116

30,514


4,116

30,632

34,748

5,527

29,221

—


F-35

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion /

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

Acquisition

Avalon Run

13,060

45,855

1,130

13,060

46,985

60,045


59,900

—


Avalon Run East

1,579

14,668


1,579

14,779

16,358

5,232

11,126

—


Avalon Run East II

6,765

45,377


6,765

45,379

52,144

3,409

48,735

—


Avalon Watch

5,585

22,394

2,159

5,585

24,553

30,138

11,357

18,781

—


Avalon Bowery Place

18,668

70,739


18,668

70,909

89,577


89,144

93,800


Avalon Gardens

8,428

45,660

1,024

8,428

46,684

55,112

14,590

40,522

—


Avalon Green

1,820

10,525


1,820

11,423

13,243

4,361

8,882

—


Avalon on the Sound

—

116,231


—

117,098

117,098

18,931

98,167

—


Avalon Riverview I

—

94,166


—

94,561

94,561

14,611

79,950

—


Avalon View

3,529

14,140

1,598

3,529

15,738

19,267

6,871

12,396

15,980


Avalon Willow

6,207

40,791


6,207

41,307

47,514

10,373

37,141

—


The Avalon

2,889

28,324


2,889

28,467

31,356

7,457

23,899

—


Avalon at Fairway Hills I
& II

4,147

16,599

2,025

4,147

18,624

22,771

7,546

15,225

11,500

1987/1996

Avalon at Fairway Hills III

4,465

17,864

7,024

4,465

24,888

29,353

7,301

22,052

—

1987/1996

Avalon at Symphony Glen

1,594

6,384

1,377

1,594

7,761

9,355

3,875

5,480

9,780


Avalon Landing

1,849

7,409


1,849

8,339

10,188

3,460

6,728

5,903

1984/1995

Southgate Crossing

7,207

29,151


7,207

29,151

36,358


36,155

—


AutumnWoods

6,096

24,400

2,705

6,096

27,105

33,201

8,858

24,343

—

1989/1996

Avalon at Arlington Square

22,041

90,296


22,041

90,568

112,609

17,183

95,426

—


Avalon at Ballston
Washington

7,291

29,177

1,642

7,291

30,819

38,110

13,310

24,800

—


Avalon at Cameron Court

10,292

32,930


10,292

33,241

43,533

10,421

33,112

—


Avalon at Decoverly

6,157

24,800

1,341

6,157

26,141

32,298

10,160

22,138

—

1991/1995

Avalon at Foxhall

6,848

27,614

9,926

6,848

37,540

44,388

13,727

30,661

—


Avalon at Gallery Place I

9,084

39,731


9,084

39,789

48,873

5,138

43,735

—


Avalon at Grosvenor Station

24,751

57,331


24,751

57,406

82,157

5,649

76,508

—


Avalon at Providence Park

2,152

8,907


2,152

9,528

11,680

3,207

8,473

—

1988/1997

Avalon at Rock Spring

—

46,003


—

46,260

46,260

6,524

39,736

—


Avalon at Traville

14,360

55,382


14,360

55,387

69,747

5,504

64,243

—


Avalon Crescent

13,851

43,397


13,851

43,750

57,601

14,666

42,935

—


Avalon Fields I & II

4,047

18,553


4,047

18,731

22,778

6,712

16,066

10,483


Avalon Knoll

1,528

6,136

1,731

1,528

7,867

9,395

3,795

5,600

11,957


Avalon Arlington Heights

9,728

39,661

6,468

9,728

46,129

55,857

8,787

47,070

—

1987/2000

Avalon at Danada Farms

7,535

30,623


7,535

31,437

38,972

9,721

29,251

—


Avalon at Stratford Green

4,326

17,569


4,326

17,838

22,164

5,520

16,644

—


Avalon at West Grove

5,149

20,656

5,467

5,149

26,123

31,272

8,324

22,948

—


Avalon at Bear Creek

6,786

27,154


6,786

28,071

34,857

8,297

26,560

—


Avalon Bellevue

6,664

24,119


6,664

24,198

30,862

5,264

25,598

—


Avalon Belltown

5,644

12,733


5,644

12,800

18,444

2,555

15,889

—


Avalon Brandemoor

8,630

36,679


8,630

37,016

45,646

7,565

38,081

—


Avalon HighGrove

7,569

32,041


7,569

32,310

39,879

6,991

32,888

—


Avalon ParcSquare

3,789

15,143


3,789

15,456

19,245

3,631

15,614

—


Avalon Redmond Place

4,558

17,568

4,283

4,558

21,851

26,409

7,181

19,228

—

1991/1997

Avalon RockMeadow

4,777

19,726


4,777

20,029

24,806

4,656

20,150

—


F-36

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion /

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

Acquisition

Avalon WildReed

4,253

18,676


4,253

18,842

23,095

4,343

18,752

—


Avalon Wynhaven

11,412

41,142


11,412

41,432

52,844

8,424

44,420

—


Avalon at Union Square

4,249

16,820

1,512

4,249

18,332

22,581

5,654

16,927

—

1973/1996

Avalon at Willow Creek

6,581

26,583

3,048

6,581

29,631

36,212

8,958

27,254

—

1985/1994

Avalon Dublin

5,276

19,642

2,948

5,276

22,590

27,866

6,574

21,292

—

1989/1997

Avalon Fremont

10,746

43,399

2,467

10,746

45,866

56,612

13,721

42,891

—


Avalon Pleasanton

11,610

46,552

4,188

11,610

50,740

62,350

15,564

46,786

—

1988/1994

Waterford

11,324

45,717

4,645

11,324

50,362

61,686

15,675

46,011

33,100

1985/1986

Avalon at Cedar Ridge

4,230

9,659

12,657

4,230

22,316

26,546

6,810

19,736

—

1972/1997

Avalon at Diamond Heights

4,726

19,130

1,471

4,726

20,601

25,327

6,290

19,037

—

1972/1994

Avalon at Mission Bay North

13,814

78,452


13,814

78,998

92,812

10,517

82,295

—


Avalon at Nob Hill

5,403

21,567

1,101

5,403

22,668

28,071

6,750

21,321

20,800

1990/1995

Avalon Foster City

7,852

31,445

4,291

7,852

35,736

43,588

10,340

33,248

—

1973/1994

Avalon Pacifica

6,125

24,796

1,244

6,125

26,040

32,165

7,775

24,390

17,600

1971/1995

Avalon Sunset Towers

3,561

21,321

3,896

3,561

25,217

28,778

8,140

20,638

—

1961/1996

Avalon Towers by the Bay

9,155

57,624


9,155

57,851

67,006

14,606

52,400

—


Crowne Ridge

5,982

16,885

10,196

5,982

27,081

33,063

8,283

24,780

—

1973/1996

Avalon at Blossom Hill

11,933

48,247

1,880

11,933

50,127

62,060

14,967

47,093

—


Avalon at Cahill Park

4,760

47,600


4,760

47,810

52,570

7,528

45,042

—


Avalon at Creekside

6,546

26,301

10,576

6,546

36,877

43,423

10,485

32,938

—

1962/1997

Avalon at Foxchase I & II

11,340

45,532

3,798

11,340

49,330

60,670

15,288

45,382

26,400

1988/1987

Avalon at Parkside

7,406

29,823


7,406

30,812

38,218

9,257

28,961

—

1991/1996

Avalon at Pruneyard

3,414

15,469

13,258

3,414

28,727

32,141

9,002

23,139

—

1968/1997

Avalon at River Oaks

8,904

35,121


8,904

36,105

45,009

10,635

34,374

—

1990/1996

Avalon Campbell

11,830

47,828


11,830

48,284

60,114

14,365

45,749

38,800


Avalon Mountain View

9,755

39,393

2,461

9,755

41,854

51,609

12,634

38,975

18,300


Avalon on the Alameda

6,119

50,230


6,119

50,387

56,506

13,929

42,577

—


Avalon Rosewalk

15,814

62,028

1,522

15,814

63,550

79,364

18,233

61,131

—

1997/1999

Avalon Silicon Valley

20,713

99,573

1,837

20,713

101,410

122,123

29,967

92,156

—


Avalon Towers on the
Peninsula

9,560

56,136


9,560

56,192

65,752

9,588

56,164

—


Countrybrook

9,384

34,958

4,448

9,384

39,406

48,790

11,872

36,918

15,990

1985/1996

San Marino

6,607

26,673

1,737

6,607

28,410

35,017

8,616

26,401

—

1984/1988

Avalon at Media Center

22,483

28,104

25,874

22,483

53,978

76,461

15,382

61,079

—

1961/1997

Avalon at Warner Center

7,045

12,986

6,912

7,045

19,898

26,943

6,935

20,008

—

1979/1998

Avalon Camarillo

8,454

38,720

(0

)

8,454

38,720

47,174


46,308

—


Avalon at Glendale

—

40,248


—

40,248

40,248

4,757

35,491

—


Avalon Woodland Hills

23,828

40,372

7,873

23,828

48,245

72,073

16,163

55,910

—

1989/1997

The Promenade

14,052

56,827


14,052

56,951

71,003

8,957

62,046

31,495

1988/2002

Avalon Del Rey

6,541

58,535

(1

)

6,541

58,534

65,075


64,351

40,845


Avalon at Pacific Bay

4,871

19,745

7,680

4,871

27,425

32,296

8,256

24,040

—

1971/1997

Avalon at South Coast

4,709

16,063

4,718

4,709

20,781

25,490

6,554

18,936

—

1973/1996

Avalon Mission Viejo

2,517

9,257

2,238

2,517

11,495

14,012

3,521

10,491

7,635

1984/1996

Avalon Newport

1,975

3,814

4,563

1,975

8,377

10,352

2,537

7,815

—

1956/1996

F-37

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion /

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

Acquisition

Avalon Santa Margarita

4,607

16,911

2,843

4,607

19,754

24,361

6,055

18,306

—

1990/1997

Avalon at Cortez Hill

2,768

20,134

11,654

2,768

31,788

34,556

9,344

25,212

—

1973/1998

Avalon at Mission Bay

9,922

40,633

15,726

9,922

56,359

66,281

16,313

49,968

—

1969/1997

Avalon at Mission Ridge

2,710

10,924

8,787

2,710

19,711

22,421

6,021

16,400

—

1960/1997

$

921,900

$

4,356,642

$

312,294

$

921,900

$

4,668,936

$

5,590,836

$

1,076,823

$

4,514,013

$

596,203

Development Communities

Avalon Decoverly II

3,364

14,864

11,195

3,364

26,059

29,423


29,291

—

Avalon at Dublin Station

—


42,334

—

42,351

42,351

—

42,351

—

Avalon at Glen Cove North

—


27,030

—

27,137

27,137

—

27,137

—

Avalon at Lexington Hills

—


22,559

—

22,611

22,611

—

22,611

—

Avalon Acton

—

—

16,672

—

16,672

16,672

—

16,672

45,000

Avalon
Bowery Place II

—


14,966

—

15,007

15,007

—

15,007

48,500

Avalon Chestnut Hill

10,626

34,527

14,773

10,626

49,300

59,926


59,703

—

Avalon Danvers

—


46,306

—

46,433

46,433

—

46,433

—

Avalon Encino

—


22,833

—

22,871

22,871

—

22,871

—

Avalon Lyndhurst

—


63,941

—

64,226

64,226

—

64,226

—

Avalon Meydenbauer

—


35,942

—

36,089

36,089

—

36,089

—

Avalon on the Sound II

—


102,002

—

102,073

102,073

—

102,073

—

Avalon Riverview North

—


85,765

—

85,814

85,814

—

85,814

—

Avalon Shrewsbury

3,258

19,798

10,487

3,258

30,285

33,543


33,320

—

Avalon Wilshire

—


38,116

—

38,338

38,338

—

38,338

—

Avalon Woburn

3,320

10,125

47,832

3,320

57,957

61,277


61,193

—

Avalon Canoga Park

—


14,012

—

14,031

14,031

—

14,031

—

$

20,568

$

80,490

$

616,764

$

20,568

$

697,254

$

717,822

$


$

717,160

$

93,500

Land held for development

209,568

—

—

209,568

—

209,568

—

209,568

23,650

Corporate Overhead

22,327

13,370

24,692

22,327

38,062

60,389

23,073

37,316

2,153,078

$

1,174,363

$

4,450,502

$

953,750

$

1,174,363

$

5,404,252

$

6,578,615

$

1,100,558

$

5,478,057

$

2,866,431

F-38

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in thousands)

Amounts include real estate assets held for sale.

Depreciation of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. building, improvements, upgrades and furniture,
fixtures and equipment (FF&E) is calculated over the following useful lives, on a straight line
basis:

Building — 30 years

Improvements, upgrades and FF&E — not to exceed 7 years

The aggregate cost of total real estate for Federal income tax purposes was approximately
$6,579,000 at December 31, 2006.

The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are as
follows:

Years ended December 31,




Balance, beginning of period

$

5,903,168

$

5,697,144

$

5,431,757

Acquisitions, construction costs and improvements

825,981

528,118

520,643

Dispositions, including impairment loss on
planned dispositions

(150,534

)

(322,094

)

(255,256

)

Balance, end of period

$

6,578,615

$

5,903,168

$

5,697,144

The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, are
as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Balance, beginning of period

$

957,380

$

819,319

$

695,368

Depreciation, including discontinued operations

162,896

162,063

162,667

Dispositions

(19,718

)

(24,002

)

(38,716

)

Balance, end of period

$

1,100,558

$

957,380

$

819,319

F-39