10-K


w50312e10vk.htm

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

e10vk

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007

Commission file number 1-12672

AVALONBAY
COMMUNITIES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Maryland

77-0404318

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization)

Identification No.)

2900 Eisenhower Avenue, Suite 300

Alexandria, Virginia 22314

(Address of principal executive office)

(703) 329-6300

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

8.70% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,

par value $.01 per share

(Title of each class)

New York Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange

(Name of each exchange on which registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding twelve (12) months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated
filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

ý

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Smaller reporting company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes

o

No

ý

The aggregate market value of the Registrant’s Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant, as of June 30, 2007 was $9,281,643,046.

The number of shares of the registrant’s Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, outstanding as of
January 31, 2008 was 76,845,045.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s Proxy Statement for
the 2008 annual meeting of
stockholders, a definitive copy of which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the year
end of the year covered by this Form 10-K, are incorporated by reference herein as portions of Part
III of this Form 10-K.


PAGE

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS


ITEM 1a.

RISK FACTORS


ITEM 1b.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS


ITEM 2.

COMMUNITIES


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS


ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS

OF OPERATIONS


ITEM 7a.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
MARKET RISK


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
ON ACCOUNTING AND

FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE


ITEM 9a.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES


ITEM 9b.

OTHER INFORMATION


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE


ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
AND MANAGEMENT AND

RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS


ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR

INDEPENDENCE


ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


SIGNATURES


PART I

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our actual results
could differ materially from those set forth in each forward-looking statement. Certain factors
that might cause such a difference are discussed in this report, including in the section entitled
“Forward-Looking Statements” on page 55 of this Form 10-K. You should also review Item 1a., “Risk
Factors,” for a discussion of various risks that could adversely affect us.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the “Company,” which term, unless the context otherwise requires,
refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries) is a Maryland corporation
that has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax
purposes. We engage in the development, redevelopment, acquisition, ownership and operation of
multifamily communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. These
barriers-to-entry generally include a difficult and lengthy entitlement process with local
jurisdictions and dense urban or suburban areas where zoned and entitled land is in limited supply.
Our markets are located in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern
and Southern California regions of the United States. We focus on these markets because we believe
that over the long term, a limited new supply of apartment homes and lower housing affordability in
these markets will result in larger increases in cash flows relative to other markets. In addition
to increasing the rental revenues of our operating assets, we believe these market attributes will
increase the value of our operating assets and enable us to create additional value through the
development and selective acquisition of multifamily housing.

At January 31, 2008, we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in:

•

163 operating apartment communities containing 45,932 apartment homes in ten states
and the District of Columbia, of which (i) 12 communities containing 4,006 apartment
homes were redevelopment communities, discussed below and (ii) 20 communities
containing 4,229 apartment homes were held by the Fund (as defined
below) which we manage and in which we own a 15.2% equity interest;

•

21 communities under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate of 6,816
apartment homes when completed; and

•

rights to develop an additional 48 communities that, if developed in the manner
expected, will contain an estimated 13,656 apartment homes.

We generally obtain ownership in an apartment community by developing a new community on vacant
land or by acquiring an existing community. In selecting sites for development or acquisition, we
favor locations that are near expanding employment centers and convenient to transportation,
recreation areas, entertainment, shopping and dining.

Our real estate investments consist of the following reportable segments: Established Communities,
Other Stabilized Communities and Development/Redevelopment Communities. Established Communities
are generally operating communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes and that
were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior
year. Other Stabilized Communities are generally all other operating communities that have
stabilized occupancy and operating expenses during the current year, but that had not achieved
stabilization as of the beginning of the prior year. Development/ Redevelopment Communities
consist of communities that are under construction, communities where substantial redevelopment is
in progress or is planned to begin during the current year and communities under lease-up. A more
detailed description of these segments and other related information can be found in Note 9,
“Segment Reporting,” of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.


Our principal financial goal is to increase long-term stockholder value by successfully and
cost-effectively developing, redeveloping, acquiring, owning and operating high-quality communities
in our selected markets that contain features and amenities desired by residents, as well as by
providing our residents with efficient and effective
service. To help fulfill this goal, we regularly (i) monitor our investment allocation by
geographic market and product type, (ii) develop, redevelop and acquire apartment communities in
high barrier-to-entry markets with growing or high potential for demand and high for-sale housing
costs, (iii) selectively sell apartment communities that no longer meet our long-term strategy or
when opportunities are presented to realize a portion of the value created through our investment
and redeploy the proceeds from those sales, and (iv) endeavor to maintain a capital structure that
is aligned with our business risks such that we maintain continuous access to cost-effective
capital. Our long-term strategy is to more deeply penetrate the high barrier-to-entry markets in
our chosen regions with a broad range of products and services and an intense focus on our
customer. A substantial majority of our current communities are upscale, which generally command
among the highest rents in their markets. However, we also pursue the ownership and operation of
apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and price points, consistent with
our goal of offering a broad range of products and services.

During the
three years ended December 31, 2007, excluding acquisition for
the Fund, we acquired two apartment communities and executed
the buyout of our partner’s 75% interest in a joint venture that owns an apartment community. All
three communities’ financial results are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. During the
same three-year period, we disposed of 15 apartment communities, disposed of one investment in a
real estate joint venture and completed the development of 21 apartment communities and the
redevelopment of 10 apartment communities, including communities we
redeveloped for the Fund (as defined below). In
anticipation of favorable apartment fundamentals and to help position us for future growth, we
increased our construction volume during 2007 (as measured by total projected capitalized cost at
completion) and continued to secure new development opportunities, including the acquisition of
land for future development. We also increased our investments in apartment communities through an
institutional discretionary investment fund, AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P. (the “Fund”), which
we manage and in which we own a 15% interest. To create value, the Fund acquired
communities with the objective of either redeveloping or
repositioning them, or taking advantage of
market cycle timing and improved operating performance. Since its inception in March 2005, the
Fund has acquired 20 communities. A more detailed description of the Fund and its investment
activity can be found in the discussion under Item I. “Business – General – Financing
Strategy” and Note 6, “Investments in Real Estate Entities” of the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8 of this report. As a result of strong capital flows to the industry, we also
continued to dispose of assets at prices that provided significant realized gains.

In 2008, we expect additional new development starts to be in the range of $900,000,000 to
$1,100,000,000, measured at total projected cost of completion, and anticipate an increase in our
redevelopment activity for both wholly-owned assets and assets of the Fund. We also anticipate
asset sales in the range of $700,000,000 to $1,000,000,000, dependent on strategic and value
realization opportunities. The level of development, acquisition and disposition activity,
however, is heavily influenced by capital market conditions, including prevailing interest rates.
A further discussion of our development, redevelopment, disposition, acquisition, property
management and related strategies follows.


Development Strategy.

We select land for development and follow established procedures that we
believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. As one of the largest developers of
multifamily apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States, we
identify development opportunities through local market presence and access to local market
information achieved through our regional offices. In addition to our principal executive office
in Alexandria, Virginia, we also maintain regional offices and administrative or specialty offices
in or near the following cities:

•

Boston, Massachusetts;

•

Chicago, Illinois;

•

Long Island, New York;

•

Los Angeles, California;

•

New York, New York;

•

Newport Beach, California;

•

San Francisco, California;

•

San Jose, California;

•

Seattle, Washington;

•

Shelton, Connecticut;

•

Virginia Beach, Virginia; and

•

Woodbridge, New Jersey.

After selecting a target site, we usually negotiate for the right to acquire the site either
through an option or a long-term conditional contract. Options and long-term conditional contracts
allow us to acquire the target site shortly before the start of construction, which reduces
development-related risks and preserves capital. However, as a result of the recent competitive
market conditions for land suitable for development, we recently have acquired and held land prior
to construction for extended periods while entitlements are obtained, or acquired land zoned for
uses other than residential with the potential for rezoning. We currently own land that is held
for development with an aggregate carrying basis under U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (“GAAP”) of $288,423,000 on which we have not
yet commenced construction.

Except for
certain mid-rise and high-rise apartment communities where we may elect to use third-party general
contractors or construction managers, when we start construction we act as our own general
contractor and construction manager. We generally perform these functions directly (although we
may use a wholly-owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and for the joint ventures and partnerships
of which we are a member or a partner. We believe this enables us to achieve higher construction
quality, greater control over construction schedules and significant cost savings. Our
development, property management and construction teams monitor construction progress to ensure
high-quality workmanship and a smooth and timely transition into the leasing and operating phase.

When there is increased competition for desirable development opportunities, we will in some cases
be engaged in more complicated development pursuits. For example, at times we have acquired and
may in the future acquire existing commercial buildings with the intent to pursue rezoning, tenant
terminations or expirations and demolition of the existing structures. During the period that we
hold these buildings for future development, the net revenue from these operations, which we
consider to be incidental, is accounted for as a reduction in our investment in the development
pursuit and not as net income. We have also participated, and may in the future participate, in
master planned or other large multi-use developments where we commit to build infrastructure (such
as roads) to be used by other participants or commit to act as construction manager or general
contractor in building structures or spaces for third parties (such as municipal garages or parks).
Costs we incur in connection with these activities may be accounted for as additional invested
capital in the community or we may earn fee income for providing these services. Particularly with
large scale, urban in-fill developments, we may engage in significant environmental remediation
efforts to prepare a site for construction.

Throughout this report, the term “development” is used to refer to the entire property development
cycle, including pursuit of zoning approvals, procurement of architectural and engineering designs
and the construction process. References to “construction” refer to the actual construction of the
property, which is only one element of the development cycle.


Redevelopment Strategy

. When we undertake the redevelopment of a community, our goal is to
renovate and/or rebuild an existing community so that our total investment is generally below
replacement cost and the community is well positioned in the market to achieve attractive returns
on our capital. We have established procedures to reduce
both the cost and risks of redevelopment. Our redevelopment teams, which include key
redevelopment, construction and property management personnel, monitor redevelopment progress. We
believe we achieve significant cost savings by acting as our own general contractor. More
importantly, this helps to ensure high-quality design and workmanship and a smooth and timely
transition into the lease-up and restabilization phase.

Throughout this report, the term “redevelopment” is used to refer to the entire redevelopment
cycle, including planning and procurement of architectural and engineering designs, budgeting and
actual renovation work. The actual renovation work is referred to as “reconstruction,” which is
only one element of the redevelopment cycle.

Disposition Strategy.

We sell assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market
conditions are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and
acquire communities and to rebalance our portfolio across geographic regions. This also allows us
to realize a portion of the value created through our investments, and provides additional
liquidity. We are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising
that amount of capital externally by issuing debt or equity securities. When we decide to sell a
community, we solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual assets and
consider the sales price of each proposal.

Acquisition Strategy.

Our core competencies in development and redevelopment discussed above allow
us to be selective in the acquisitions we target. Acquisitions allow us to achieve rapid
penetration into markets in which we desire an increased presence. Acquisitions (and dispositions)
also help us achieve our desired product mix or rebalance our portfolio. In 2005 we formed the
Fund, which since then has served as the exclusive vehicle through which we acquired additional
investments in apartment communities, subject to limited exceptions. At December 31, 2007, the
Fund had invested $777,568,000. We expect that the Fund will invest approximately $46,000,000 of
additional funds to redevelop the assets acquired, at which time the Fund will become fully
invested. We are exploring various potential sources and vehicles for funding future acquisitions
after the Fund is fully invested.

Property Management Strategy

. We expect to increase operating income through innovative, proactive
property management that will result in higher revenue from
communities while constraining operating
expenses. Our principal strategies to maximize revenue include:

•

strong focus on resident satisfaction;

•

staggering lease terms such that lease expirations are better matched to traffic
patterns;

•

balancing high occupancy with premium pricing, and increasing rents as market
conditions permit; and

•

managing community occupancy for optimal rental revenue levels.

Constraining
growth in operating expenses is another way in which we expect to increase earnings growth.
Growth in our portfolio and the resulting increase in revenue allows for fixed operating costs to
be spread over a larger volume of revenue, thereby increasing operating margins. We control
operating expenses in a variety of ways, which include the following, among others:

On-site property management teams receive bonuses based largely upon the net operating income
produced at their respective communities. We use and continuously seek ways to improve technology
applications to help manage our communities, believing that the accurate collection of financial
and resident data will enable us to maximize revenue and control costs through careful leasing
decisions, maintenance decisions and financial management.


We generally manage the operation and leasing activity of our communities directly (although we may
use a wholly-
owned subsidiary) both for ourselves and the joint ventures and partnerships of which we are a
member or a partner.

From time to time, we also pursue or arrange ancillary services for our residents to provide
additional revenue sources or increase resident satisfaction. In general, as a REIT we cannot
directly provide services to our tenants that are not customarily provided by a landlord, nor can
we share in the income of a third party that provides such services. However, we can provide such
non-customary services to residents or share in the revenue from such services if we do so through
a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” which is a subsidiary that is treated as a “C corporation” and is
therefore subject to federal income taxes.

Financing Strategy.

We have consistently maintained, and intend to continue to maintain, a capital
structure that provides us with flexibility in meeting the financial obligations and opportunities
presented by our real estate development and ownership business. At December 31, 2007, our
debt-to-total market capitalization was 30.3%, and our long-term floating rate debt, which includes
amounts outstanding on our variable rate unsecured credit facility, was 10.2% of total market
capitalization. Total market capitalization reflects the aggregate of the market value of our
common stock, the market value of our operating partnership units outstanding (based on the market
value of our common stock), the liquidation preference of our preferred stock and the outstanding
principal amount of our debt. We believe that debt-to-total market capitalization can be one
useful measure of a real estate operating company’s long-term liquidity and balance sheet strength,
because it shows an approximate relationship between a company’s total debt and the current total
market value of its assets based on the current price at which the company’s common stock trades.
However, because debt-to-total market capitalization changes with fluctuations in our stock price,
which occur regularly, our debt-to-total market capitalization may change even when our earnings
and debt levels remain stable.

We estimate that a portion of our short-term liquidity needs will be met from retained operating
cash, borrowings under our variable rate unsecured credit facility and sales of current operating
communities. If required to meet the balance of our current or anticipated liquidity needs, we
will borrow funds under our existing unsecured credit facility, sell existing communities or land
and/or issue additional debt or equity securities. A determination to engage in an equity or debt
offering depends on a variety of factors such as general market and economic conditions, including
interest rates, our short and long term liquidity needs, the adequacy of our expected liquidity
sources, the relative costs of debt and equity capital, and growth opportunities. A summary of
debt and equity activity for the last three years is reflected on our Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.

We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures (including
limited liability companies) or partnerships through which we would own an indirect economic
interest of less than 100% of the community or communities owned directly by such joint venture or
partnership. Our decision whether to hold an apartment community in fee simple or to have an
indirect interest in the community through a joint venture or partnership is based on a variety of
factors and considerations, including: (i) the economic and tax terms required by a seller of land
or of a community, who may prefer that (or who may require less payment if) the land or community
is contributed to a joint venture or partnership; (ii) our desire to diversify our portfolio of
communities by market, submarket and product type; (iii) our desire at times to preserve our
capital resources to maintain liquidity or balance sheet strength; and (iv) our projection, in some
circumstances, that we will achieve higher returns on our invested capital or reduce our risk if a
joint venture or partnership vehicle is used. Investments in joint ventures or partnerships are
not limited to a specified percentage of our assets. Each joint venture or partnership agreement
is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole
discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture or
partnership agreement.

Since its inception in 2005, the Fund has served as the principal vehicle through which we have
invested in the acquisition of apartment communities, subject to certain exceptions. These
exceptions included significant individual asset and portfolio acquisitions, properties acquired in
tax-deferred transactions and acquisitions that are inadvisable or inappropriate for the Fund. The
Fund does not restrict our development activities, and will terminate after a term of eight years,
subject to two one-year extensions. The Fund has nine institutional investors, including us, with
a combined equity capital commitment of $330,000,000. A significant portion of the investments
made in the Fund by its investors are being made through AvalonBay Value Added Fund, Inc., a
Maryland corporation that qualifies as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the “Fund REIT”). A
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is the general partner of the Fund and has committed
$50,000,000 to the Fund and the Fund REIT (of
which approximately $43,399,000 has been invested as
of January 31, 2008) representing a 15.2% combined general
partner and limited partner equity interest. As of January 31, 2008, the Fund had invested
$779,318,000, with an additional expected net investment of $39,000,000 to redevelop the assets acquired.
We are exploring various potential sources and vehicles for funding future acquisitions after the
Fund is fully invested.


In addition, we may, from time to time, offer shares of our equity securities, debt securities or
options to purchase stock in exchange for property.

Other Strategies and Activities

. While we emphasize equity real estate investments in rental
apartment communities, we have the ability to invest in other types of real estate, mortgages
(including participating or convertible mortgages), securities of other REITs or real estate
operating companies, or securities of technology companies that relate to our real estate
operations or of companies that provide services to us or our residents, in each case consistent
with our qualification as a REIT. On occasion, we own and lease retail space at our communities
when either (i) the highest and best use of the space is for retail (e.g., street level in an urban
area) or (ii) we believe the retail space will enhance the attractiveness of the community to
residents. As of December 31, 2007, we had a total of 405,122 square feet of rentable retail space
that produced gross rental revenue in 2007 of $7,790,000 (1.0% of total revenue). If we secure a
development right and believe that its best use, in whole or in part, is to develop the real estate
with the intent to sell rather than hold the asset, we may, through a taxable REIT subsidiary,
develop real estate for sale. At present, through a taxable REIT subsidiary that is a 50% partner
in Aria at Hathorne, LLC, we have an economic interest in the development of 64 for-sale townhomes
at a total projected capital cost of $23,636,000 on a site that is adjacent to our Avalon Danvers
community and that is zoned for for-sale development. Any investment in securities of other
entities, and any development of real estate for sale, is subject to the percentage of ownership
limitations, gross income tests, and other limitations that must be observed for REIT
qualification.

We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of other
issuers and do not intend to do so. At all times we intend to make investments in a manner so as
to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes to the Internal Revenue Code (or
the Treasury Regulations), the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best
interest to qualify as a REIT.

Inflation and Deflation

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. In an inflationary
environment, this may allow us to realize increased rents upon renewal of existing leases or the
beginning of new leases. Short-term leases generally minimize our risk from the adverse effects of
inflation, although these leases generally permit residents to leave at the end of the lease term
and therefore expose us to the effect of a decline in market rents. In a deflationary rent
environment, we may be exposed to declining rents more quickly under these shorter-term leases.

Tax Matters

We filed an election with our 1994 federal income tax return to be taxed as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and intend to maintain our qualification as a REIT in
the future. As a qualified REIT, with limited exceptions, we will not be taxed under federal and
certain state income tax laws at the corporate level on our net income to the extent net income is
distributed to our stockholders. We expect to make sufficient distributions to avoid income tax at
the corporate level. While we believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT and we intend
to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT, there can be no
assurance that we will be successful in this regard. Qualification as a REIT involves the
application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which there
are limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety
of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.

Competition

We face competition from other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension and
investment funds, partnerships and investment companies and other REITs, to acquire and develop
apartment communities and acquire land for future development. As an owner and operator of
apartment communities, we also face competition for prospective residents from other operators
whose communities may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may
be perceived as a better value proposition given the quality, location and amenities that
the resident seeks. We also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale
or rent. Although we often compete against large sophisticated developers and operators for
development opportunities and for prospective residents, real estate developers and operators of
any size can provide effective competition for both real estate assets and potential residents.


Environmental and Related Matters

As a current or prior owner, operator and developer of real estate, we are subject to various
federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances and also could be liable to
third parties resulting from environmental contamination or noncompliance at our communities. For
some development communities, we undertake extensive environmental remediation to prepare the site
for construction, which could be a significant portion of our total construction cost.
Environmental remediation efforts could expose us to possible liabilities for accidents or improper
handling of contaminated materials during construction. These and other risks related to
environmental matters are described in more detail in Item 1a., “Risk Factors”.

Other Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.
You may read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
N.E., Washington, D.C. 20002. You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from
the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, you may read our SEC fillings at the offices of the
New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), which is located at 20 Board Street, New York, New York 10005.
Our SEC filings are available at the NYSE because our common stock and an outstanding series of
preferred stock are listed on the NYSE.

We
maintain a website at

www.avalonbay.com

. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant
to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge in the “Investor Relations”
section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or
furnished to the SEC. In addition, the charters of our Board’s Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, as well as our Corporate Governance
Guidelines and Code of Conduct, are available free of charge in that section of our website or by
writing to AvalonBay Communities, Inc., 2900 Eisenhower Avenue, Suite 300, Alexandria, Virginia
22314, Attention: Chief Financial Officer. To the extent required by the rules of the SEC and the New York
Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), we will disclose amendments and waivers relating to these documents in the same place on our website.

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of California in 1978. In 1995, we reincorporated
in the State of Maryland and have been focused on the ownership and operation of apartment
communities since that time. As of December 31, 2007, we had 1,898 employees.


ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS

Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse consequences, including those
described below. This Item 1a includes forward-looking statements. You should refer to our
discussion of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements on page 55.

Development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability.

We intend to continue to develop and redevelop apartment home communities. These activities can
include long planning and entitlement timelines and can involve complex and costly activities,
including significant environmental remediation or construction work in high-density urban areas.
These activities may be exposed to the following risks:

We project construction costs based on market conditions at the time we prepare our budgets, and
our projections include changes that we anticipate but cannot predict with certainty.
Construction costs have been increasing, particularly for materials such as steel, concrete and
lumber, and, for some of our Development Communities and Development Rights, the total
construction costs may be higher than the original budget. Total capitalized cost includes all
capitalized costs projected to be incurred to develop or redevelop a community, determined in
accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), including:


Costs to redevelop communities that have been acquired have, in some cases, exceeded our original
estimates and similar increases in costs may be experienced in the future. We cannot assure you
that market rents in effect at the time new development or redevelopment communities complete
lease-up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased construction or
reconstruction costs.

Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could hurt occupancy, rental rates or
operating expenses.

Local conditions in our markets significantly affect occupancy or rental rates at our communities.
The risks that may adversely affect conditions in those markets include the following:

Changes in applicable laws, or noncompliance with applicable laws, could adversely affect our
operations or expose us to liability.

We must operate our communities in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and
regulations, including landlord tenant laws and other laws generally applicable to business
operations. Noncompliance with laws could expose us to liability.

Compliance with changes in (i) laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions
existing on properties or the restrictions on discharges or other conditions, (ii) rent control or
rent stabilization laws or (iii) other governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies
affecting the use and operation of our communities, including changes to building codes and fire
and life-safety codes, may result in lower revenue growth or significant unanticipated
expenditures.

Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents.

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. Because these leases
generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental
revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer
terms.

Competition could limit our ability to lease apartment homes or increase or maintain rents.

Our apartment communities compete with other housing alternatives to attract residents, including
other rental apartments, condominiums and single-family homes that are available for rent, as well
as new and existing condominiums and single-family homes for sale. Competitive residential
housing in a particular area could adversely affect our ability to lease apartment homes and to
increase or maintain rental rates.

Attractive investment opportunities may not be available, which could adversely affect our
profitability.

We expect that other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension funds, other
REITs and other well-capitalized investors, will compete with us to acquire existing properties
and to develop new properties. This competition could increase prices for properties of the type
we would likely pursue and adversely affect our profitability.


Insufficient cash flow could affect our debt financing and create refinancing risk.

We are subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow
will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. In this regard, we note
that we are required to annually distribute dividends generally equal to at least 90% of our REIT
taxable income, computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain,
in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT, and this requirement limits the amount of our
cash flow available to meet required principal and interest payments. The principal outstanding
balance on a portion of our debt will not be fully amortized prior to its maturity. Although we
may be able to repay our debt by using our cash flows, we cannot assure you that we will have
sufficient cash flows available to make all required principal payments. Therefore, we may need to
refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may
not be able to refinance existing debt or that a refinancing will not be done on as favorable
terms, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations.

Rising interest rates could increase interest costs and could affect the market price of our
common stock.

We currently have, and may in the future incur, variable interest rate debt. In addition, we
regularly seek access to both fixed and variable rate debt financing to repay maturing debt and to
finance our development and redevelopment activity. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, our
interest costs will also rise, unless we have made arrangements that hedge the risk of rising
interest rates. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers of our
common stock to demand a greater annual dividend yield, which could adversely affect the market
price of our common stock.

Bond financing and zoning compliance requirements could limit our income, restrict the use of
communities and cause favorable financing to become unavailable.

We have financed some of our apartment communities with obligations issued by local government
agencies because the interest paid to the holders of this debt is generally exempt from federal
income taxes and, therefore, the interest rate is generally more favorable to us. These
obligations are commonly referred to as “tax-exempt bonds” and generally must be secured by
communities. As a condition to obtaining tax-exempt financing, or on occasion as a condition to
obtaining favorable zoning in some jurisdictions, we will commit to make some of the apartments in
a community available to households whose income does not exceed certain thresholds (e.g., 50% or
80% of area median income), or who meet other qualifying tests. As of December 31, 2007,
approximately 4.7% of our apartment homes at current operating communities were under income
limitations such as these. These commitments, which may run without expiration or may expire
after a period of time (such as 15 or 20 years) may limit our ability to raise rents aggressively
and, in consequence, can also limit increases in the value of the communities subject to these
restrictions.

In addition, some of our tax-exempt bond financing documents require us to obtain a guarantee from
a financial institution of payment of the principal of, and interest on, the bonds. The guarantee
may take the form of a letter of credit, surety bond, guarantee agreement or other additional
collateral. If the financial institution defaults in its guarantee obligations, or if we are
unable to renew the applicable guarantee or otherwise post satisfactory collateral, a default will
occur under the applicable tax-exempt bonds and the community could be foreclosed upon.

Risks related to indebtedness.

We have a $1,000,000,000 revolving variable rate unsecured credit facility with JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., and Wachovia Bank, N.A., serving together as syndication agent and as banks, Bank of
America, N.A., serving as administrative agent, swing lender, issuing bank and a bank, Morgan
Stanley Bank, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, serving
collectively as documentation agent and as banks, and a syndicate of other financial institutions,
serving as banks. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of
indebtedness that may be incurred. Accordingly, subject to compliance with outstanding debt
covenants, we could incur more debt, resulting in an increased risk of default on our obligations
and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition
and results of operations.


The mortgages on those of our properties subject to secured debt, our unsecured credit facility
and the indentures under which a substantial portion of our debt was issued contain customary
restrictions, requirements and other limitations, as well as certain financial and operating
covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining compliance with these
restrictions could limit our flexibility. A default in these requirements, if uncured, could
result in a requirement that we repay indebtedness, which could severely affect our liquidity and
increase our financing costs.

Failure to generate sufficient revenue could limit cash flow available for distributions to
stockholders.

A decrease in rental revenue could have an adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions to
our stockholders. Significant expenditures associated with each community such as debt service
payments, if any, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs are generally not reduced
when circumstances cause a reduction in income from a community.

Debt financing may not be available and equity issuances could be dilutive to our stockholders.

Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt
and equity financing. Debt financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on favorable
terms. If we issue additional equity securities, the interests of existing stockholders could be
diluted.

Difficulty of selling apartment communities could limit flexibility.

Federal tax laws may limit our ability to earn a gain on the sale of a community (unless we own it
through a subsidiary which will incur a taxable gain upon sale) if we are found to have held,
acquired or developed the community primarily with the intent to resell the community, and this
limitation may affect our ability to sell communities without adversely affecting returns to our
stockholders. In addition, real estate in our markets can at times be hard to sell. These
potential difficulties in selling real estate in our markets may limit our ability to change or
reduce the apartment communities in our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or
other conditions.

Acquisitions may not yield anticipated results.

Subject to the requirements related to the Fund, we may in the future acquire apartment
communities on a select basis. Our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the
following risks:

•

an acquired property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment;
and

•

our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may
prove inaccurate.

Failure to succeed in new markets or in activities other than the development, ownership and
operation of residential rental communities may have adverse consequences.

We may from time to time commence development activity or make acquisitions outside of our
existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. As noted in the business description
above, we also own and lease retail space when a retail component represents the best use of the
space, as is often the case with large urban in-fill developments. Also as noted in the business
description above, through a taxable REIT subsidiary that is a joint venture partner, we have a
50% economic interest in a 64 townhome for-sale development with a total estimated capital cost at
completion of $23,636,000, on a site adjacent to one of our communities. We may engage or have an
interest in for-sale activity in the future. Our historical experience in our existing markets in
developing, owning and operating rental communities does not ensure that we will be able to
operate successfully in new markets, should we choose to enter them, or that we will be successful
in other activities. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets,
including an inability to evaluate accurately local apartment market conditions; an inability to
obtain land for development or to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities; an inability to
hire and retain key personnel; and lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting
procedures. We may be unsuccessful in owning and leasing retail space at our communities or in
developing real estate with the intent to sell.


Risks involved in real estate activity through joint ventures.

Instead of acquiring or developing apartment communities directly, at times we invest as a partner
or a co-venturer. Partnership or joint venture investments involve risks, including the
possibility that our partner might become insolvent or otherwise refuse to make capital
contributions when due; that we may be responsible to our partner for indemnifiable losses; that
our partner might at any time have business goals which are inconsistent with ours; and that our
partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or
requests. Frequently, we and our partner may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell
arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a
time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction.

Risks associated with an investment in and management of a discretionary investment fund

.

We have formed the Fund which, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, we manage as the general partner
and to which we have committed $50,000,000, representing an equity
interest of approximately 15%. This
presents risks, including the following:

If we were to employ a similar vehicle to fund acquisitions in the future, such vehicle could
present similar risks to us, or similar requirements that our acquisition activity be conducted
primarily through the vehicle.

Risk of earthquake damage.

As further described in Item 2., “Communities – Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses,” many of
our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. We
cannot assure you that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels.
In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the
affected community, as well as anticipated future revenue from that community. We would also
continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the
community. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial
condition and results of operations.

Insurance
coverage for earthquakes can be costly due to limited industry capacity. As a result, we
may experience shortages in desired coverage levels if market conditions are such that insurance
is not available.


A significant uninsured property or liability loss could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

In addition to the earthquake insurance discussed above, we carry commercial general liability
insurance, property insurance and terrorism insurance with respect to our communities on terms we
consider commercially reasonable. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses
arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either
uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s view, economically impractical. If
an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, we could
lose our capital invested in a community, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such
community. We would also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other
obligations related to the community. If an uninsured liability to a third party were to occur, we
would incur the cost of defense and settlement with, or court ordered damages to, that third
party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect
our business and our financial condition and results of operations.

We may incur costs and increased expenses to repair property damage resulting from inclement
weather.

Particularly in the Northeast and Midwest we are exposed to risks associated with inclement winter
weather, including increased costs for the removal of snow and ice as well as from delays in
construction. In addition, inclement weather could increase the need for maintenance and repair of
our communities.

We may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance.

Under various federal, state and local environmental and public health laws, regulations and
ordinances, we may be required, regardless of knowledge or responsibility, to investigate and
remediate the effects of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at our
properties (including in some cases natural substances such as methane and radon gas) and may be held
liable under these laws or common law to a governmental entity or to third parties for property,
personal injury or natural resources damages and for investigation and remediation costs incurred
as a result of the contamination. These damages and costs may be substantial and may exceed any
insurance coverage we have for such events. The presence of such substances, or the failure to
properly remediate the contamination, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or
rent the affected property.

In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the
government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of the contamination.

The development, construction and operation of our communities are subject to regulations and
permitting under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which regulate
matters including wetlands protection, storm water runoff and wastewater discharge. Noncompliance
with such laws and regulations may subject us to fines and penalties. We do not currently
anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result of noncompliance with these
laws.

Certain federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances govern the removal,
encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials (“ACMs”) when such materials are in
poor condition or in the event of renovation or demolition of a building. These laws and the
common law may impose liability for release of ACMs and may allow third parties to seek recovery
from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with exposure to ACMs.
We are not aware that any ACMs were used in the construction of the communities we developed.
ACMs were, however, used in the construction of several of the communities that we acquired. We
implement an operations and maintenance program at each of the communities at which ACMs are
detected. We do not currently anticipate that we will incur any material liabilities as a result
of the presence of ACMs at our communities.

We are aware that some of our communities have lead paint and have implemented an operations and
maintenance program at each of those communities. We do not currently anticipate that we will
incur any material liabilities as a result of the presence of lead paint at our communities.


All of our stabilized operating communities, and all of the communities that we are currently
developing or redeveloping, have been subjected to at least a Phase I or similar environmental
assessment, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water
sampling. These assessments, together with subsurface assessments conducted on some properties,
have not revealed, and we are not otherwise aware of, any environmental
conditions that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial
condition or results of operation. In connection with our ownership, operation and development of
communities, from time to time we undertake substantial remedial action in response to the
presence of subsurface or other contaminants, including contaminants in soil, groundwater and soil
vapor beneath or affecting our buildings. In some cases, an indemnity exists upon which we may be
able to rely if environmental liability arises from the contamination or remediation costs exceed
estimates. There can be no assurance, however, that all necessary remediation actions have been
or will be undertaken at our properties or that we will be indemnified, in full or at all, in the
event that environmental liability arises.

Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials,
particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of
time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to
remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years
that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or
other reactions. To help limit mold growth, we educate residents about the importance of adequate
ventilation and request or require that they notify us when they see mold or excessive moisture.
We have established procedures for promptly addressing and remediating mold or excessive moisture
from apartment homes when we become aware of its presence regardless of whether we or the resident
believe a health risk is presented. However, we cannot provide assurance that mold or excessive
moisture will be detected and remediated in a timely manner. If a significant mold problem arises
at one of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to
contain or remove the mold from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities
that may exceed any applicable insurance coverage.

Additionally, we have occasionally been involved in developing, managing, leasing and operating
various properties for third parties. Consequently, we may be considered to have been an operator
of such properties and, therefore, potentially liable for removal or remediation costs or other
potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances. We are not aware of any
material environmental liabilities with respect to properties managed or developed by us or our
predecessors for such third parties.

We cannot assure you that:

Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would
significantly reduce funds available for distribution to stockholders.

If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be subject to federal
income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative
minimum tax). In addition, unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions,
we would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years
following the year in which we lose our qualification. The additional tax liability resulting from
the failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds
available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, we would no longer be required to
make distributions to our stockholders. Thus, our failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair
our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our
common stock.


We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT, and we intend to operate in a manner
that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we are
qualified as a REIT, or that we will
remain qualified in the future. This is because qualification as a REIT involves the application
of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only
limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of
factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. In addition, future
legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly
change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT for
federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of this qualification.

Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our
income and property and on taxable income that we do not distribute to our shareholders. In
addition, we may engage in activities through taxable subsidiaries and will be subject to federal
income tax at regular corporate rates on the income of those subsidiaries.

The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our
company is limited by certain provisions of our charter and bylaws and by Maryland law.

There are provisions in our charter and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a
proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in
their best interests. These provisions include the following:

Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock
without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights, including voting rights,
of any series of preferred stock issued. The Board of Directors may issue preferred stock without
stockholder approval, which could allow the Board to issue one or more classes or series of
preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or a change in control.

To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in
value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer
individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To maintain this qualification,
and to otherwise address concerns about concentrations of ownership of our stock, our charter
generally prohibits ownership (directly, indirectly by virtue of the attribution provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code, or beneficially as defined in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act) by
any single stockholder of more than 9.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of any class or
series of our stock. In general, under our charter, pension plans and mutual funds may directly
and beneficially own up to 15% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of stock. Under
our charter, our Board of Directors may in its sole discretion waive or modify the ownership limit
for one or more persons. These ownership limits may prevent or delay a change in control and, as a
result, could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to realize a premium for their shares of
common stock.

Our bylaws provide that the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of all of the shares
entitled to be cast in the election of directors is required to elect a director. In a contested
election, if no nominee receives the vote of holders of a majority of all of the shares entitled
to be cast, the incumbent directors would remain in office. This requirement may prevent or delay
a change in control and, as a result, could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to realize
a premium for their shares of common stock.

As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to the provisions of the Maryland General Corporation
Law. Maryland law imposes restrictions on some business combinations and requires compliance with
statutory procedures before some mergers and acquisitions may occur, which may delay or prevent
offers to acquire us or increase the difficulty of completing any offers, even if they are in our
stockholders’ best interests. In addition, other provisions of the Maryland General Corporation
Law permit the Board of Directors to make elections and to take actions without stockholder
approval (such as classifying our Board such that the entire Board is not up for reelection
annually) that, if made or taken, could have the effect of discouraging or delaying a change in
control.

ITEM 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.


ITEM 2.

COMMUNITIES

Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities,
communities in various stages of development (“Development Communities”) and Development Rights as
defined below. Our current operating communities are further distinguished as Established
Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities and Redevelopment Communities. The
following is a description of each category:

Current Communities

are categorized as Established, Other Stabilized,
Lease-Up, or Redevelopment according to the following attributes:

•

Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities)

are
consolidated communities where a comparison of operating results from
the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities
were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the
beginning of the prior year. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the
Established Communities are communities that are consolidated for
financial reporting purposes, had stabilized occupancy and operating
expenses as of January 1, 2006, are not conducting or planning to
conduct substantial redevelopment activities and are not held for sale
or planned for disposition within the current year. A community is
considered to have stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i) attainment
of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion
of development or redevelopment.

•

Other Stabilized Communities

includes all other completed communities
that we own or have a direct or indirect ownership interest in, and that
have stabilized occupancy, as defined above. Other Stabilized
Communities do not include communities that are conducting or planning
to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year.

•

Lease-Up Communities

are communities where construction has been
complete for less than one year and where physical occupancy has not
reached 95%.

•

Redevelopment Communities

are communities where substantial
redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current
year. For communities that we wholly own, redevelopment is considered
substantial when capital invested during the reconstruction effort is
expected to exceed the lesser of $5,000,000 or 10% of the community’s
acquisition cost. The definition of substantial redevelopment may
differ for communities owned through a joint venture arrangement.

Development Communities

are communities that are under construction and
for which a certificate of occupancy has not been received. These communities
may be partially complete and operating.

Development Rights

are development opportunities in the early phase of the
development process for which we either have an option to acquire land or enter into
a leasehold interest, for which we are the buyer under a long-term conditional
contract to purchase land or where we own land to develop a new community. We
capitalize related pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new developments for
which we currently believe future development is probable.

In addition, we own approximately 60,000 square feet of office space in Alexandria,
Virginia, for our corporate office, with all other regional and administrative offices
leased under operating leases.


As of December 31, 2007, communities that we owned or held a direct or indirect interest in
were classified as follows:

Number of

Number of

communities

apartment homes

Current Communities

Established Communities:

Northeast


11,226

Mid-Atlantic


5,757

Midwest



Pacific Northwest


2,278

Northern California


8,109

Southern California


3,172

Total Established


31,429

Other Stabilized Communities:

Northeast


5,359

Mid-Atlantic


1,485

Midwest



Pacific Northwest



Northern California


1,149

Southern California


2,123

Total Other Stabilized


11,596

Lease-Up Communities



Redevelopment Communities


2,231

Total Current Communities


45,932

Development Communities


6,816

Development Rights


13,656

Our holdings under each of the above categories are discussed on the following pages.

Current Communities

Our Current Communities are primarily garden-style apartment communities consisting of two and
three-story buildings in landscaped settings. The Current Communities, as of January 31, 2008,
include 123 garden-style (of which 14 are mixed communities and include townhomes), 21 high-rise
and 19 mid-rise apartment communities. The Current Communities offer many attractive amenities
including some or all of the following:

Other features at various communities may include:

•

swimming pools;

•

fitness centers;

•

tennis courts; and

•

business centers.


We also have an extensive and ongoing maintenance program to keep all communities and apartment
homes substantially free of deferred maintenance and, where vacant, available for immediate
occupancy. We believe that the aesthetic appeal of our communities and a service oriented
property management team, focused on the specific needs of residents, enhances market appeal to
discriminating residents. We believe this will ultimately achieve higher rental rates and
occupancy levels while minimizing resident turnover and operating expenses.

Our Current Communities are located in the following geographic markets:

Number of

Number of apartment

Percentage of total

communities at

homes at

apartment homes at

1-31-07

1-31-08

1-31-07

1-31-08

1-31-07

1-31-08

Northeast



15,732

17,547

36.1

%

38.2

%

Boston, MA



4,490

5,788

10.3

%

12.6

%

Fairfield County, CT



3,812

3,812

8.8

%

8.3

%

Long Island, NY



1,621

1,732

3.7

%

3.8

%

Northern New Jersey



1,182

1,618

2.7

%

3.5

%

Central New Jersey



2,042

2,042

4.7

%

4.4

%

New York, NY



2,585

2,555

5.9

%

5.6

%

Mid-Atlantic



7,622

7,818

17.5

%

17.0

%

Baltimore, MD



1,987

1,987

4.6

%

4.3

%

Washington, DC



5,635

5,831

12.9

%

12.7

%

Midwest



1,952

1,952

4.5

%

4.2

%

Chicago, IL



1,952

1,952

4.5

%

4.2

%

Pacific Northwest



3,111

3,111

7.2

%

6.8

%

Seattle, WA



3,111

3,111

7.2

%

6.8

%

Northern California



9,366

9,546

21.5

%

20.8

%

Oakland-East Bay, CA



2,089

2,089

4.8

%

4.5

%

San Francisco, CA



2,489

2,489

5.7

%

5.4

%

San Jose, CA



4,788

4,968

11.0

%

10.8

%

Southern California



5,750

5,958

13.2

%

13.0

%

Los Angeles, CA



3,006

3,214

6.9

%

7.0

%

Orange County, CA



1,686

1,686

3.9

%

3.7

%

San Diego, CA



1,058

1,058

2.4

%

2.3

%



43,533

45,932

100.0

%

100.0

%

We manage and operate substantially all of our Current Communities. During the year ended December
31, 2007, we completed construction of 1,749 apartment homes in eight communities, acquired one
wholly-owned community containing 80 apartment homes and sold 982 apartment homes in four
communities. In addition, the Fund acquired 1,491 apartment homes in seven communities. The
average age of our Current Communities, on a weighted average basis according to number of
apartment homes, is 15.3 years. When adjusted to reflect redevelopment activity, as if
redevelopment were a new construction completion date, the average age of our Current Communities
is 9.7 years.

Of the Current Communities, as of January 31, 2008, we own:

•

a full fee simple, or absolute, ownership interest in 120 operating communities, 5 of
which are on land subject to land leases expiring in November 2028, December 2061, April
2095, September 2105, and March 2142;

•

a general partnership interest in 3 partnerships that each own a fee simple interest in
an operating community;

•

a general partnership interest and an indirect limited partnership interest in the Fund,
which owns a fee simple interest in 20 operating communities;

•

a general partnership interest in two partnerships structured as “DownREITs,” as
described more fully below, that own an aggregate of 12 communities;


•

a membership interest in 7 limited liability companies that each hold a fee simple
interest in an operating community, three of which are on land subject to land leases
expiring in February 2093, August 2100, and December 2103; and

•

a residual profits interest (with no ownership interest) in a limited liability company
to which an operating community was transferred upon completion of construction in the
second quarter of 2006.

We also hold, directly or through wholly owned subsidiaries, the full fee simple ownership interest
in 21 of the Development Communities, all of which are currently consolidated for financial
reporting purposes.

In our two partnerships structured as DownREITs, either AvalonBay or one of our wholly-owned
subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are one or more limited partners whose interest in
the partnership is represented by units of limited partnership interest. For each DownREIT
partnership, limited partners are entitled to receive an initial distribution before any
distribution is made to the general partner. Although the partnership agreements for each of the
DownREITs are different, generally the distributions per unit paid to the holders of units of
limited partnership interests have approximated our current common stock dividend amount. The
holders of units of limited partnership interest have the right to present all or some of their
units for redemption for a cash amount as determined by the applicable partnership agreement and
based on the fair value of our common stock. In lieu of a cash redemption by the partnership, we
may elect to acquire any unit presented for redemption for one share of our common stock or for
such cash amount. As of January 31, 2008, there were 64,019 DownREIT partnership units
outstanding. The DownREIT partnerships are consolidated for financial reporting purposes.


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/07



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

CURRENT COMMUNITIES

NORTHEAST

Boston, MA

Avalon at Lexington

Lexington, MA


230,280

16.1


1,163

98.5

%

96.5

%

95.9

%

1,784

1.48

16,271

Avalon Summit

Quincy, MA


216,509

8.0

1986/1996


96.7

%

96.0

%

95.5

%

1,279

1.39

17,582

Avalon at Faxon Park

Quincy, MA


175,649

8.3


1,027

95.9

%

95.9

%

96.3

%

1,604

1.50

15,675

Avalon at Prudential Center

Boston, MA


725,409

1.0

1968/1998


97.2

%

97.0

%

97.5

%

2,858

2.98

156,839

Avalon Ledges

Weymouth, MA


330,606

57.6


1,088

96.7

%

95.0

%

95.3

%

1,452

1.27

36,408

Avalon Orchards

Marlborough, MA


176,477

23.0


1,131

98.1

%

96.0

%

96.4

%

1,449

1.23

21,197

Avalon at Flanders Hill

Westborough, MA


299,425

62.0


1,069

96.4

%

96.0

%

95.4

%

1,438

1.29

37,447

Avalon at Newton Highlands (8)

Newton, MA


339,537

7.0


1,155

96.6

%

95.5

%

95.2

%

2,231

1.84

56,685

Avalon at The Pinehills I

Plymouth, MA


150,991

6.0


1,495

91.1

%

95.8

%

93.4

%

1,786

1.14

19,984

Avalon at Crane Brook

Danvers & Peabody, MA


410,076

20.0


1,060

97.9

%

95.7

%

95.5

%

1,347

1.22

54,807

Avalon at Center Place (11)

Providence, RI


222,834

1.2

1991/1997


91.6

%

92.8

%

93.8

%

2,245

2.10

29,182

Avalon Shrewsbury

Shrewsbury, MA


274,780

25.5


1,095

97.2

%

84.3

%

N/A

1,312

1.01

(3)

35,705

Avalon Woburn

Woburn, MA


486,091

56.0


1,090

98.0

%

61.4

%

N/A

1,471

0.83

81,410

Avalon Oaks

Wilmington, MA


229,452

22.5


1,125

96.1

%

95.4

%

95.1

%

1,477

1.25

21,272

Avalon Essex

Peabody, MA


198,478

11.1


1,289

97.4

%

96.5

%

97.3

%

1,577

1.18

21,864

Avalon Oaks West

Wilmington, MA


133,376

27.0


1,111

94.2

%

95.0

%

93.7

%

1,374

1.18

16,844

Avalon at Bedford Center

Bedford, MA


159,704

38.0


1,149

96.4

%

95.6

%

85.4

%(3)

1,756

1.46

24,805

Avalon Chestnut Hill

Chestnut Hill, MA


270,031

4.7


1,324

97.1

%

78.8

%

7.9

%

2,045

1.22

(3)

60,274

Essex Place

Peabody, MA


250,322

18.0



90.9

%

96.3

%(2)

97.8

%

1,089

1.20

(2)

27,155

Fairfield-New Haven, CT

Avalon Gates

Trumbull, CT


379,282

37.0


1,116

97.4

%

94.9

%

98.1

%

1,627

1.38

37,170

Avalon Glen

Stamford, CT


221,843

4.1



97.5

%

97.2

%

97.2

%

2,015

2.10

32,243

Avalon Springs

Wilton, CT


158,259

12.0


1,552

99.0

%

96.5

%

92.7

%

2,983

1.85

17,213

Avalon Valley

Danbury, CT


295,303

17.1


1,102

98.1

%

96.8

%

98.1

%

1,664

1.46

26,397

Avalon Haven

North Haven, CT


139,972

10.6


1,094

94.5

%

96.8

%

97.4

%

1,594

1.41

14,014

Avalon Orange

Orange, CT


161,795

9.6



94.6

%

95.1

%

97.9

%

1,499

1.48

22,096

Avalon on Stamford Harbor

Stamford, CT


323,587

12.1


1,002

94.7

%

97.5

%

97.6

%

2,502

2.44

62,891

Avalon New Canaan

New Canaan, CT


131,468

9.1


1,264

95.2

%

94.3

%

95.7

%

2,935

2.19

24,379

Avalon at Greyrock Place

Stamford, CT


314,600

3.0


1,028

95.8

%

97.5

%

97.9

%

2,272

2.15

70,454

Avalon Darien

Darien, CT


242,533

32.0


1,283

97.9

%

96.2

%

93.7

%

2,564

1.92

41,519

Avalon Milford I

Milford, CT


216,746

22.0



97.2

%

96.1

%

98.1

%

1,443

1.57

31,460

Avalon Walk I & II

Hamden, CT


435,426

38.4

1992/1994

1,003

91.9

%

88.3

%(2)

91.7

%

1,308

2.03

(2)

69,537

Avalon Danbury

Danbury, CT


235,320

36.0


1,006

95.3

%

95.5

%

94.5

%

1,666

1.58

35,515

Long Island, NY

Avalon Commons

Smithtown, NY


377,240

20.6


1,209

95.5

%

95.4

%

97.1

%

2,087

1.65

33,786

Avalon Towers

Long Beach, NY


124,611

1.3

1990/1995

1,143

94.5

%

96.8

%

97.7

%

3,491

2.96

21,326

Avalon Court

Melville, NY


596,942

35.4

1997/2000

1,208

92.5

%

95.3

%

96.3

%

2,470

1.95

59,922

Avalon at Glen Cove South

Glen Cove, NY


261,462

4.0


1,021

97.3

%

94.5

%

95.5

%

2,343

2.17

67,965

Avalon Pines I

Coram, NY


362,132

32.0


1,215

96.0

%

95.7

%

95.9

%

1,912

1.51

46,877

Avalon at Glen Cove North (11)

Glen Cove, NY


100,851

1.3



97.3

%

50.2

%(3)

N/A

2,530

1.40

(3)

39,710

Avalon Pines II

Coram, NY


183,857

42.0


1,210

99.3

%

96.3

%

71.0

%

1,887

1.50

24,765


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/07



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

Northern New Jersey

Avalon Cove

Jersey City, NJ


575,334

11.0


1,142

95.4

%

97.5

%

97.7

%

2,905

2.48

93,181

Avalon at Edgewater

Edgewater, NJ


422,269

7.6


1,035

94.6

%

95.2

%

95.8

%

2,362

2.17

75,205

Avalon at Florham Park

Florham Park, NJ


330,410

41.9


1,224

94.8

%

96.1

%

97.6

%

2,616

2.06

41,878

Avalon Lyndhurst

Lyndhurst, NJ


329,526

5.8


1,005

95.4

%

57.0

%(3)

N/A

2,136

1.21

(3)

80,350

Central New Jersey

Avalon Run East (8)

Lawrenceville, NJ


265,733

27.1


1,290

96.6

%

96.2

%

95.8

%

1,588

1.18

16,358

Avalon at Freehold

Freehold, NJ


317,416

40.3


1,072

97.6

%

97.5

%

96.3

%

1,697

1.54

34,765

Avalon Run East II

Lawrenceville, NJ


341,292

70.5


1,094

93.6

%

96.2

%

96.2

%

1,775

1.56

52,144

Avalon Watch

West Windsor, NJ


493,866

64.4



97.1

%

95.6

%

96.4

%

1,384

1.37

30,197

Avalon Run (7)

Lawrenceville, NJ


443,168

9.0


1,040

95.1

%

96.2

%

96.0

%

1,423

1.32

60,056

New York, NY

Avalon Gardens

Nanuet, NY


608,842

62.5


1,208

96.2

%

96.9

%

97.0

%

2,108

1.69

55,425

Avalon Green

Elmsford, NY


113,538

16.9


1,081

97.1

%

97.3

%

96.5

%

2,308

2.08

13,709

Avalon Willow

Mamaroneck, NY


199,834

4.0



97.8

%

96.5

%

98.9

%

2,220

2.43

47,530

The Avalon

Bronxville, NY


119,410

1.5


1,086

98.2

%

97.4

%

97.0

%

3,506

3.14

31,485

Avalon on the Sound (11)

New Rochelle, NY


367,969

2.4



94.4

%

95.2

%

96.2

%

2,320

2.47

117,232

Avalon Riverview I (11)

Long Island City, NY


332,947

1.0



98.1

%

97.6

%

96.7

%

3,087

3.37

94,561

Avalon Bowery Place I

New York, NY


162,000

1.1



93.7

%

89.8

%

32.2

%(3)

3,780

4.31

93,008

Avalon Bowery Place II

New York, NY


73,624

1.1



90.0

%

42.4

%(3)

N/A

3,669

1.90

(3)

52,356

MID-ATLANTIC

Baltimore, MD

Avalon at Fairway Hills

Columbia, MD


193,784

15.0

1987/1996

1,009

92.7

%

95.8

%

96.7

%

1,281

1.22

10,439

Avalon at Fairway Hills II (7)

Columbia, MD


192,560

29.0

1987/1996

1,003

93.8

%

95.9

%

97.2

%

1,294

1.24

12,486

Avalon Landing

Annapolis, MD


116,923

13.8

1984/1995


98.1

%

95.9

%

97.8

%

1,219

1.58

10,268

Avalon at Fairway Hills III (7)

Columbia, MD


337,683

15.0

1987/1996

1,005

90.5

%

95.5

%

95.1

%(2)

1,430

1.36

29,395

Avalon at Symphony Glen

Columbia, MD


179,880

10.0


1,022

93.1

%

93.2

%

96.6

%

1,343

1.22

9,355

Southgate Crossing

Columbia, MD


214,670

12.7

1986/2006


90.7

%

93.5

%

93.8

%

1,222

1.14

36,359

Washington, DC

Avalon at Foxhall

Washington, DC


297,875

2.7



95.8

%

96.2

%

96.6

%

2,215

2.20

44,671

Avalon at Gallery Place I

Washington, DC


184,157

0.5



96.6

%

95.4

%

95.7

%

2,413

2.54

48,975

Avalon at Decoverly

Rockville, MD


368,732

24.0

1991/1995

1,002

96.7

%

96.2

%

97.0

%

1,455

1.40

32,537

Avalon Fields I

Gaithersburg, MD


191,280

5.0



96.4

%

97.3

%

97.2

%

1,370

1.34

14,445

Avalon Fields II

Gaithersburg, MD


100,268

5.0


1,044

96.9

%

95.9

%

96.8

%

1,549

1.42

8,333

Avalon Knoll

Germantown, MD


290,544

26.7



95.3

%

96.0

%

97.2

%

1,188

1.18

9,518

Avalon at Rock Spring (9) (11)

North Bethesda, MD


387,884

10.2


1,005

96.4

%

95.0

%

96.6

%

1,771

1.67

82,166

Avalon at Grosvenor Station

North Bethesda, MD


471,221

10.0



98.6

%

95.8

%

97.3

%

1,769

1.79

82,181

Avalon at Traville (8)

North Potomac, MD


573,773

47.9


1,103

98.8

%

96.2

%

97.7

%

1,720

1.50

69,963

Avalon at Ballston — Washington
Towers

Arlington, VA


294,954

4.1



97.4

%

96.2

%

97.8

%

1,728

1.94

38,587

Avalon at Cameron Court

Alexandria, VA


467,292

16.0


1,016

94.3

%

95.6

%

97.3

%

1,862

1.75

43,609

Avalon at Providence Park

Fairfax, VA


148,282

9.3

1988/1997

1,052

96.5

%

97.0

%

96.9

%

1,500

1.38

11,854

Avalon Crescent

McLean, VA


613,426

19.1


1,099

97.3

%

95.6

%

96.0

%

1,894

1.65

57,711

Avalon at Arlington Square

Arlington, VA


577,293

20.1



96.4

%

96.6

%

96.5

%

1,865

2.63

112,827

Avalon at Decoverly II

Rockville, MD


182,560

10.8



96.4

%

85.3

%(3)

N/A

1,494

1.37

(3)

30,433

AutumnWoods

Fairfax, VA


354,945

24.3

1989/1996


89.1

%

90.0

%(2)

94.6

%

1,318

1.40

(2)

36,808


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/07



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

MIDWEST

Chicago, IL

Avalon at West Grove (8)

Westmont, IL


388,500

17.4



96.0

%

95.4

%

95.0

%


0.90

31,492

Avalon at Danada Farms (8)

Wheaton, IL


351,326

19.2


1,191

95.4

%

95.5

%

95.3

%

1,414

1.13

39,185

Avalon at Stratford Green (8)

Bloomingdale, IL


237,124

12.7


1,235

96.9

%

96.1

%

95.9

%

1,404

1.09

22,202

Avalon Arlington Heights

Arlington Heights, IL


346,416

2.8

1987/2000


97.1

%

94.3

%(2)

92.9

%

1,456

1.62

(2)

56,680

PACIFIC NORTHWEST

Seattle, WA

Avalon at Bear Creek

Redmond, WA


288,250

22.2


1,092

96.2

%

95.5

%

96.3

%

1,340

1.17

35,444

Avalon Bellevue

Bellevue, WA


167,070

1.7



93.6

%

96.6

%

96.5

%

1,513

1.77

30,894

Avalon RockMeadow (8)

Bothell, WA


243,958

11.2


1,184

95.6

%

96.6

%

96.1

%

1,264

1.03

24,807

Avalon WildReed (8)

Everett, WA


259,080

23.0


1,107

97.0

%

96.7

%

96.7

%

1,077

0.94

23,096

Avalon HighGrove (8)

Everett, WA


422,482

19.0


1,081

96.4

%

96.6

%

96.5

%

1,079

0.96

39,879

Avalon ParcSquare (8)

Redmond, WA


127,231

2.0


1,026

92.7

%

96.5

%

96.4

%

1,507

1.42

19,256

Avalon Wynhaven (8)

Issaquah, WA


424,803

11.6


1,276

94.0

%

96.4

%

95.4

%

1,376

1.04

52,844

Avalon Brandemoor (8)

Lynwood, WA


453,602

27.0


1,070

96.0

%

96.1

%

96.8

%

1,164

1.05

45,645

Avalon Belltown

Seattle, WA


82,418

0.7



95.0

%

97.2

%

96.4

%

1,724

2.03

18,443

Avalon Redmond Place

Redmond, WA


211,450

8.4

1991/1997


84.0

%

90.1

%(2)

96.7

%

1,238

1.17

(2)

28,400

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Oakland-East Bay, CA

Avalon Fremont I

Fremont, CA


311,121

14.3


1,010

98.7

%

97.4

%

96.9

%

1,698

1.64

56,711

Avalon Dublin

Dublin, CA


179,004

13.0

1989/1997


97.1

%

97.3

%

97.2

%

1,507

1.67

28,206

Avalon Pleasanton

Pleasanton, CA


366,062

14.7

1988/1994


97.1

%

95.8

%

96.8

%

1,386

1.65

63,032

Avalon at Union Square

Union City, CA


150,320

8.5

1973/1996


98.6

%

97.6

%

96.7

%

1,211

1.64

22,622

Waterford

Hayward, CA


452,043

11.1

1985/1986


96.1

%

96.5

%

95.6

%

1,218

1.42

61,630

Avalon at Willow Creek

Fremont, CA


191,935

13.5

1985/1994


98.3

%

98.1

%

97.7

%

1,462

1.76

36,493

San Francisco, CA

Avalon at Cedar Ridge

Daly City, CA


141,411

7.0

1972/1997


97.9

%

98.1

%

96.8

%

1,506

2.04

27,007

Avalon at Nob Hill

San Francisco, CA


108,712

1.4

1990/1995


97.8

%

96.9

%

96.4

%

1,797

2.96

28,119

Avalon Foster City

Foster City, CA


222,364

11.0

1973/1994


97.9

%

97.1

%

97.1

%

1,505

1.89

43,952

Avalon Towers by the Bay

San Francisco, CA


245,033

1.0


1,079

98.2

%

97.6

%

96.8

%

3,046

2.75

67,006

Avalon Pacifica

Pacifica, CA


186,800

21.9

1971/1995


97.7

%

96.9

%

96.7

%

1,592

1.82

32,259

Avalon Sunset Towers

San Francisco, CA


171,854

16.0

1961/1996


98.4

%

96.9

%

96.7

%

1,808

2.48

28,797

Avalon at Mission Bay North

San Francisco, CA


240,368

1.4



96.0

%

94.5

%

95.2

%

3,213

3.16

92,881

Crowne Ridge

San Rafael, CA


221,635

21.9

1973/1996


94.5

%

97.8

%

96.3

%

1,430

1.60

33,100

Avalon at Diamond Heights

San Francisco, CA


123,047

3.0

1972/1994


96.6

%

97.7

%

97.4

%

1,733

2.12

25,327


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/07



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

San Jose, CA

Avalon Campbell

Campbell, CA


326,796

10.8



97.7

%

97.7

%

96.9

%

1,636

1.70

60,359

Avalon at Blossom Hill

San Jose, CA


323,496

7.5



97.5

%

96.7

%

96.7

%

1,608

1.56

62,263

CountryBrook

San Jose, CA


322,992

14.0

1985/1996


97.2

%

97.0

%

97.8

%

1,491

1.61

52,622

Avalon at River Oaks

San Jose, CA


210,050

4.0

1990/1996


98.7

%

98.3

%

97.6

%

1,607

1.70

45,008

Avalon at Foxchase I

San Jose, CA


213,072

7.0

1988/1987


99.2

%

97.1

%

96.7

%

1,367

1.57

39,230

Avalon at Foxchase II

San Jose, CA


120,723

5.0

1988/1987


97.2

%

97.1

%

97.2

%

1,349

1.56

21,805

Avalon at Parkside

Sunnyvale, CA


204,060

8.0

1991/1996

1,063

99.0

%

97.5

%

98.0

%

1,837

1.69

38,236

Avalon on the Alameda

San Jose, CA


299,762

8.9



97.4

%

97.7

%

96.9

%

1,992

1.98

56,815

Avalon Rosewalk

San Jose, CA


448,512

16.6

1997/1999


97.8

%

97.2

%

96.4

%

1,634

1.61

79,549

Avalon at Pruneyard

Campbell, CA


197,000

8.5

1968/1997


98.8

%

97.3

%

97.4

%

1,381

1.72

32,316

Avalon Silicon Valley

Sunnyvale, CA


653,929

13.6



95.4

%

96.2

%

96.5

%

1,917

2.00

123,254

Avalon at Creekside

Mountain View, CA


215,680

13.0

1962/1997


98.6

%

98.0

%

97.7

%

1,405

1.88

43,400

Avalon at Cahill Park

San Jose, CA


218,248

3.8


1,001

96.8

%

97.7

%

97.0

%

1,991

1.94

52,599

Avalon Towers on the Peninsula

Mountain View, CA


218,392

1.9


1,035

97.2

%

97.0

%

96.5

%

2,685

2.52

65,752

Countrybrook II

San Jose, CA


64,554

3.6



98.8

%

95.9

%(3)

N/A

1,405

1.67

(3)

17,790

Avalon Mountain View

Mountain View, CA


211,552

10.5



99.6

%

96.6

%

95.9

%

1,756

1.99

51,630

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Orange County, CA

Avalon Newport

Costa Mesa, CA


122,415

6.6

1956/1996


97.2

%

97.7

%

98.2

%

1,671

1.93

10,353

Avalon Mission Viejo

Mission Viejo, CA


124,450

7.8

1984/1996


96.4

%

96.1

%

95.5

%

1,321

1.69

14,038

Avalon Santa Margarita

Rancho Santa Margarita, CA


229,593

20.0

1990/1997


97.7

%

95.0

%

96.9

%

1,372

1.71

24,382

Avalon at Pacific Bay

Huntington Beach, CA


268,000

9.7

1971/1997


97.7

%

96.1

%

96.0

%

1,527

1.67

32,384

Avalon at South Coast

Costa Mesa, CA


207,672

8.0

1973/1996


96.1

%

96.4

%

98.3

%

1,453

1.74

25,725

San Diego, CA

Avalon at Mission Bay

San Diego, CA


402,285

12.9

1969/1997


93.4

%

94.8

%

95.7

%

1,421

1.89

66,492

Avalon at Mission Ridge

San Diego, CA


208,125

4.0

1960/1997

1,041

96.5

%

96.2

%

96.3

%

1,584

1.46

22,579

Avalon at Cortez Hill

San Diego, CA


226,140

1.4

1973/1998


96.9

%

94.9

%

95.1

%

1,461

1.80

34,568


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/07



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

Los Angeles, CA

Avalon at Warner Center

Woodland Hills, CA


191,224

7.0

1979/1998


98.7

%

96.9

%

96.8

%

1,705

1.96

26,946

Avalon Glendale (11)

Burbank, CA


241,714

5.1


1,084

95.5

%

95.0

%

95.4

%

2,315

2.03

41,433

Avalon at Media Center

Burbank, CA


530,084

14.1

1961/1997


96.1

%

95.9

%

95.7

%

1,463

1.98

76,545

Avalon Wilshire

Los Angeles, CA


125,093

1.6


1,017

95.9

%

55.8

%(3)

N/A

2,715

1.82

(3)

46,229

The Promenade

Burbank, CA


360,587

6.9

1988/2002


99.0

%

97.8

%

97.4

%

1,896

2.06

71,003

Avalon Camarillo

Camarillo, CA


233,267

10.0



97.2

%

94.9

%

54.4

%(3)

1,619

1.64

47,616

Avalon Woodland Hills

Woodland Hills, CA


594,396

18.2

1989/1997


89.6

%

94.8

%

95.5

%

1,553

1.64

75,192

DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES

Avalon at Lexington Hills

Lexington, MA


487,483

23.0

N/A

1,260

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

73,630

Avalon Danvers

Danvers, MA


492,119

75.0

N/A

1,137

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

81,561

Avalon at Hingham Shipyard

Hingham, MA


267,165

12.9

N/A

1,137

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

17,197

Avalon Sharon

Sharon, MA


175,512

27.2

N/A

1,125

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

17,429

Avalon Acton

Acton, MA


299,228

50.3

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

54,622

Avalon Huntington

Shelton, CT


132,339

7.1

N/A

1,337

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

6,449

Avalon at Tinton Falls

Tinton Falls, NJ


239,208

35.0

N/A

1,107

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

20,334

Avalon Riverview North (11)

Long Island City, NY


477,232

1.8

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

167,105

Avalon on the Sound II (11)

New Rochelle, NY


562,499

1.7

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

174,083

Avalon Morningside Park (11)

New York, NY


243,157

0.8

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

48,883

Avalon White Plains

White Plains, NY


364,345

0.1

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

74,472

Avalon Fort Greene

Brooklyn, NY


498,632

1.0

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

92,294

Avalon Meydenbauer

Bellevue, WA


331,945

3.6

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

76,435

Avalon at Dublin Station I

Dublin, CA


299,233

4.7

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

80,969

Avalon Union City

Union City, CA


428,730

6.0

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

48,059

Avalon at Mission Bay III

San Francisco, CA


261,361

1.5

N/A

1,005

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

41,740

Avalon Anaheim

Anaheim, CA


302,646

3.5

N/A

1,206

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

48,706

Avalon Jamboree Village

Irvine, CA


243,157

4.5

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

19,236

Avalon Fashion Valley

San Diego, CA


184,080

10.0

N/A

1,143

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

34,496

Avalon Encino

Los Angeles, CA


131,252

2.0

N/A

1,002

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

38,565

Avalon Warner Place

Canoga Park, CA


186,402

3.3

N/A


N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

40,627

UNCONSOLIDATED COMMUNITIES

Avalon at Mission Bay North II
(9)(12)

San Francisco, CA


291,556

1.5



98.4

%

83.3

%

27.8

%

3,096

2.77

N/A

Avalon Del Rey (9)

Los Angeles, CA


283,151

5.0



95.8

%

96.5

%

94.3

%

1,979

2.08

N/A

Avalon Chrystie Place I (9)(11)

New York, NY


266,940

1.5



97.5

%

96.1

%

98.4

%(3)

3,803

4.94

N/A

Avalon Juanita Village (10)

Kirkland, WA


207,916

2.9



95.7

%

95.2

%

94.1

%(3)

1,586

1.53

N/A

Avalon at Redondo Beach (6)

Redondo Beach, CA


85,380

1.2

1971/2004


97.1

%

94.0

%

94.4

%

2,017

2.33

N/A

Avalon Sunset (6)

Los Angeles, CA


71,037

0.8

1987/2005


100.0

%

88.3

%(2)

96.1

%(3)

1,873

1.91

(2)

N/A

Civic Center (6)

Norwalk, CA


173,568

8.7

1987/2005


92.7

%

85.5

%(2)

94.8

%(3)

1,620

1.53

(2)

N/A

Avalon Paseo Place (6)

Fremont, CA


106,249

7.0

1987/2005


100.0

%

87.3

%(2)

96.9

%(3)

1,256

1.38

(2)

N/A

Avalon Yerba Buena (6)

San Francisco, CA


159,498

0.9

2000/2006


97.5

%

97.1

%

95.4

%

2,641

2.57

N/A

The Springs (6)

Corona, CA


241,440

13.3

1987/2006


94.7

%

94.2

%

94.7

%

1,105

1.38

N/A

Skyway Terrace (6)

San Jose,CA


283,618

18.4

1994/2007


95.1

%

96.2

%(3)

N/A

1,306

1.54

(3)

N/A

South Hills Apartments (6)

West Covina, CA


104,600

5.3

1966/2007

1,231

94.1

%

97.5

%(3)

N/A

1,603

1.27

(3)

N/A

Avalon Lakeside (6)

Wheaton, IL


162,821

12.4



98.0

%

95.1

%

95.5

%


1.13

N/A

Avalon at Poplar Creek (6)

Schaumburg, IL


178,490

12.8

1986/2005


82.7

%

88.6

%(2)

95.9

%

1,124

1.09

(2)

N/A


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

Average economic

Average

Approx.

Year of

Average

Physical

occupancy

rental rate

Financial

Number of

rentable area

completion/

size

occupancy at

$ per

$ per

reporting cost

City and state

homes

(Sq. Ft.)

Acres

acquisition

(Sq. Ft.)

12/31/07



Apt (4)

Sq. Ft.

(5)

The Covington (6)

Schaumburg, IL


201,924

13.2

1988/2006


94.9

%

93.1

%

83.8

%

1,015

1.20

N/A

Middlesex Crossing (6)

Billerica, MA


188,915

13.0



94.0

%

93.6

%(3)

N/A

1,224

1.53

(3)

N/A

Colonial Towers/South Shore

Manor (6)

Weymouth, MA


154,957

7.7

1971/2007


90.5

%

87.9

%(3)

N/A

1,005

1.20

(3)

N/A

Avalon Columbia (6)

Columbia, MD


177,284

11.3

1989/2004

1,043

92.9

%

96.0

%(2)

96.1

%

1,453

1.34

(2)

N/A

Cedar Place (6)

Columbia, MD


150,219

11.4

1972/2006


95.2

%

95.3

%

96.6

%

1,079

1.07

N/A

Avalon Centerpoint (6)

Baltimore,MD


312,356

6.9

2005/2007


91.0

%

92.9

%(3)

N/A


1.06

(3)

N/A

Avalon at Aberdeen Station (6)

Aberdeen, NJ


289,710

16.8

2002/2006


96.2

%

96.1

%

95.0

%

1,750

1.68

N/A

Avalon at Rutherford Station (6)

East Rutherford, NJ


112,537

1.5

2005/2007

1,042

93.5

%

89.2

%(3)

N/A

2,172

1.86

(3)

N/A

Avalon Crystal Hill (6)

Pomona, NY


215,203

12.1

2001/2007

1,281

94.7

%

94.9

%(3)

N/A

2,011

1.49

(3)

N/A

Avalon Redmond (6)

Redmond, WA


340,568

24.0

1983/2004


94.8

%

85.6

%(2)

88.4

%

1,180

1.19

(2)

N/A


Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)

(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)

(1)

We own a fee simple interest in the communities listed, excepted as noted below.

(2)

Represents community which was under redevelopment during the year, resulting in lower average economic occupancy and average rental rate per square foot for the year.

(3)

Represents a community that completed development or was purchased during the year, which could result in lower average economic occupancy and average rental rate per square foot for the year.

(4)

Represents the average rental revenue per occupied apartment home.

(5)

Costs are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For current Development Communities, cost represents total costs incurred through December 31, 2007.
Financial reporting costs are excluded for unconsolidated communities, see Note 6, “Investments in Real Estate Entities.”

(6)

We own a 15.2% combined general partnership and indirect limited partner equity interest in this community.

(7)

We own a general partnership interest in a partnership that owns a fee simple interest in this community.

(8)

We own a general partnership interest in a partnership structured as a DownREIT that owns this community.

(9)

We own a membership interest in a limited liability company that holds a fee simple interest in this community.

(10)

This community was transferred to a joint venture entity upon completion of development. We do not hold an equity interest in the entity, but retain a promoted residual interest in the profits of the entity.
We receive a property management fee for this community.

(11)

Community is located on land subject to a land lease.

(12)

This community completed development and was financed under a joint venture structure with third-party financing, in which the community is owned by a limited liability company managed by one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.


Development Communities

As of December 31, 2007, we had 21 Development Communities under construction. We expect these
Development Communities, when completed, to add a total of 6,816 apartment homes to our portfolio
for a total capitalized cost, including land acquisition costs, of approximately $2,162,500,000.
You should carefully review Item 1a., “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated with
development activity.

The following table presents a summary of the Development Communities. We hold a direct or
indirect fee simple ownership interest in these communities except where noted.

Total

Number of

capitalized

apartment

cost (1)

Construction

Initial

Estimated

Estimated

homes

($ millions)

start

occupancy (2)

completion

stabilization (3)

1.

Avalon Riverview North

New York, NY


$

175.6

Q3 2005

Q3 2007

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

2.

Avalon Danvers

Danvers, MA


84.8

Q4 2005

Q1 2007

Q3 2008

Q1 2009

3.

Avalon on the Sound II

New Rochelle, NY


181.8

Q1 2006

Q2 2007

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

4.

Avalon Meydenbauer

Bellevue, WA


84.3

Q1 2006

Q1 2008

Q3 2008

Q1 2009

5.

Avalon at Dublin Station I

Dublin, CA


85.8

Q2 2006

Q4 2007

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

6.

Avalon at Lexington Hills

Lexington, MA


86.2

Q2 2006

Q2 2007

Q3 2008

Q1 2009

7.

Avalon Encino

Los Angeles, CA


61.5

Q3 2006

Q3 2008

Q4 2008

Q1 2009

8.

Avalon Warner Place

Canoga Park, CA


53.9

Q4 2006

Q2 2008

Q3 2008

Q1 2009

9.

Avalon Acton (4)

Acton, MA


68.8

Q4 2006

Q4 2007

Q4 2008

Q2 2009

10.

Avalon Morningside Park (4)

New York, NY


125.5

Q1 2007

Q2 2008

Q1 2009

Q3 2009

11.

Avalon White Plains

White Plains, NY


154.5

Q2 2007

Q4 2008

Q4 2009

Q2 2010

12.

Avalon at Tinton Falls

Tinton Falls, NJ


41.2

Q2 2007

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

Q2 2009

13.

Avalon Fashion Valley

San Diego, CA


64.7

Q2 2007

Q4 2008

Q1 2009

Q2 2009

14.

Avalon Anaheim

Anaheim, CA


102.7

Q2 2007

Q2 2009

Q3 2009

Q1 2010

15.

Avalon Union City

Union City, CA


125.2

Q3 2007

Q2 2009

Q3 2009

Q1 2010

16.

Avalon at the Hingham Shipyard

Hingham, MA


52.7

Q3 2007

Q3 2008

Q1 2009

Q2 2009

17.

Avalon Sharon

Sharon, MA


30.7

Q3 2007

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

Q1 2009

18.

Avalon Huntington

Shelton, CT


26.1

Q4 2007

Q4 2008

Q2 2009

Q3 2009

19.

Avalon at Mission Bay North III

San Francisco, CA


157.8

Q4 2007

Q3 2009

Q4 2009

Q2 2010

20.

Avalon Jamboree Village

Irvine, CA


78.3

Q4 2007

Q2 2009

Q4 2009

Q2 2010

21.

Avalon Fort Greene

New York, NY


320.4

Q4 2007

Q2 2009

Q2 2010

Q4 2010

Total

6,816

$

2,162.5

(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to
develop the respective Development Community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including
land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan
fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees.
Total capitalized cost for communities identified as
having joint venture ownership, either during construction or upon construction completion,
represents the total projected joint venture contribution amount.

(2)

Future initial occupancy dates are estimates. There can be no assurance that we will pursue
to completion any or all of these proposed developments.

(3)

Stabilized operations is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% or greater physical
occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development.


(4)

This community is being financed in part by third party, tax-exempt debt.

Redevelopment Communities

As of December 31, 2007, we had five consolidated communities under redevelopment. We expect the
total capitalized cost to redevelop these communities to be $65,000,000, excluding costs prior to
redevelopment. In addition, the Fund has three communities under redevelopment. We have found
that the cost to redevelop an existing apartment community is more difficult to budget and estimate
than the cost to develop a new community. Accordingly, we expect that actual costs may vary from
our budget by a wider range than for a new development community. We cannot assure you that we
will meet our schedule for reconstruction completion or restabilized operations, or that we will
meet our budgeted costs, either individually or in the aggregate. We anticipate increasing our
redevelopment activity related to Fund-owned communities, as well as communities in our current
operating portfolio. You should carefully review Item 1a., “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the
risks associated with redevelopment activity.

The following presents a summary of these Redevelopment Communities:

Total cost

Number of

($ millions)

Estimated

Estimated

apartment

Pre-redevelopment

Total capitalized

Reconstruction

reconstruction

restabilized

homes

cost

cost (1)

start

completion

operations (2)

Consolidated Communities

1. Avalon at AutumnWoods

Fairfax, VA


$

31.2

$

38.3

Q3 2006

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

2. Essex Place

Peabody, MA


23.7

34.5

Q3 2007

Q2 2009

Q4 2009

3. Avalon Redmond Place

Redmond, WA


26.3

31.3

Q3 2007

Q4 2008

Q2 2009

4. Avalon Woodland Hills

Woodland Hills, CA


72.1

109.3

Q4 2007

Q1 2010

Q3 2010

5. Avalon at Diamond Heights

San Francisco, CA


25.3

30.2

Q4 2007

Q4 2010

Q2 2011

Subtotal

1,745

$

178.6

$

243.6

Fund Communities

1. Avalon at Poplar Creek

Schaumburg, IL


$

25.2

$

28.6

Q4 2006

Q1 2008

Q3 2008

2. Avalon Paseo Place

Fremont, CA


19.8

25.5

Q2 2007

Q2 2008

Q4 2008

3. Avalon Cedar Place

Columbia, MD


21.0

25.0

Q3 2007

Q1 2009

Q3 2009

Subtotal


$

66.0

$

79.1

Total

2,231

$

244.6

$

322.7

(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to
develop the respective Redevelopment Community, including land acquisition costs, construction
costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees,
allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees, all as determined in accordance with
GAAP.

(2)

Restabilized operations is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% or greater
physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of redevelopment.


Development Rights

As of December 31, 2007, we are evaluating the future development of 48 new apartment communities
on land that is either owned by us, under contract, subject to a leasehold interest or for which we
hold either a purchase or lease option. We generally hold Development Rights through options to
acquire land, although for 21 of the Development Rights we currently own the land on which a
community would be built if we proceeded with development. The Development Rights range from those
beginning design and architectural planning to those that have completed site plans and drawings
and can begin construction almost immediately. We estimate that the successful completion of all
of these communities would ultimately add 13,656 apartment homes to our portfolio. Substantially
all of these apartment homes will offer features like those offered by the communities we currently
own. At December 31, 2007, there were cumulative capitalized costs (including legal fees, design
fees and related overhead costs, but excluding land costs) of $60,996,000 relating to Development
Rights that we consider probable for future development. In addition, land costs related to the
pursuit of Development Rights (consisting of original land and additional carrying costs) of
$288,423,000 are reflected as land held for development as of December 31, 2007 on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet of the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this report.

The properties comprising the Development Rights are in different stages of the due diligence and
regulatory approval process. The decisions as to which of the Development Rights to invest in, if
any, or to continue to pursue once an investment in a Development Right is made, are business
judgments that we make after we perform financial, demographic and other analyses. In the event
that we do not proceed with a Development Right, we generally would not recover capitalized costs
incurred in the pursuit of those communities, unless we were to recover amounts in connection with
the sale of land; however, we cannot guarantee a recovery. Pre-development costs incurred in the
pursuit of Development Rights for which future development is not yet considered probable are
expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, making future
development no longer probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are written-off with a charge
to expense. During 2007, we incurred a charge of approximately $7,000,000 for pursuits for which
we determined it was not probable that we would proceed with development.

You should carefully review Section 1a., “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated
with Development Rights.


The table below presents a summary of these Development Rights:

Total

Estimated

capitalized

number

cost

Location

of homes

($ millions) (1)

1.

Coram, NY


$


2.

Randolph, MA



3.

Northborough, MA



4.

Pleasant Hill, CA



5.

Kirkland, WA Phase II



6.

Los Angeles, CA



7.

Canoga Park, CA



8.

Bellevue, WA



9.

Norwalk, CT



10.

North Bergen, NJ

(2)



11.

Rockville Centre, NY



12.

Chicago, IL Phase I



13.

New York, NY



14.

Wilton, CT



15.

Camarillo, CA



16.

Irvine, CA Phase III



17.

San Francisco, CA



18.

Brooklyn, NY



19.

Seattle, WA



20.

Cohasset, MA



21.

Dublin, CA Phase II



22.

Greenburgh, NY Phase II



23.

Plymouth, MA Phase II



24.

Irvine, CA Phase II



25.

Seattle, WA II



26.

Wheaton, MD



27.

West Long Branch, NJ

(2)



28.

Andover, MA



29.

Milford, CT



30.

Highland Park, NJ



31.

Stratford, CT



32.

Oyster Bay, NY



33.

Shelton, CT



34.

Yonkers, NY



35.

Concord, MA



36.

Bloomingdale, NJ



37.

North Andover, MA



38.

Tysons Corner, VA



39.

Roselle Park, NJ

(2)



40.

Gaithersburg, MD



41.

Chicago, IL Phase II



42.

Alexandria, VA



43.

Garden City, NY



44.

Hackensack, NJ



45.

Plainview, NY



46.

Wanaque, NJ



47.

Yaphank, NY



48.

Rockville, MD



Total

13,656

$

3,918

(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs incurred to date (if any) and projected
to be incurred to develop the respective community, determined in accordance with GAAP,
including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest
and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory
fees.

(2)

This development right is subject to a joint venture arrangement.


Recent Developments

We seek to increase the value of our interests and increase our presence in selected high
barrier-to-entry markets where we believe we can:

•

apply sufficient market and management presence to enhance revenue growth;

•

reduce operating expenses; and

•

leverage management talent.

To achieve this increased value creation and presence, we (i) sell assets that do not meet our
long-term investment strategy or when capital and real estate markets allow us to realize a portion
of the value created over the past business cycle and (ii) redeploy the proceeds from those sales
to develop, redevelop and acquire communities. Pending such redeployment, we will generally use
the proceeds from the sale of these communities to reduce amounts outstanding under our variable
rate unsecured credit facility. On occasion, we will set aside the proceeds from the sale of
communities into a cash escrow account to facilitate a non-taxable, like-kind exchange transaction.
From January 1, 2007 to January 31, 2008, we disposed of our interest in five communities
including one partnership interest to our joint venture partner in a community previously held by a
joint venture entity, containing an aggregate of 1,384 apartment homes. The aggregate gross sales
price from the dispositions of these assets was $268,096,000.


Land Acquisitions

. We select land for development and follow established procedures that we
believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. During
2007, we acquired 17 land
parcels for an aggregate purchase price of $311,691,000. The land parcels purchased, which are
currently being developed or are held for future development, are as follows:

Estimated

Total

number

capitalized

Gross

of apartment

cost (1)

Date

Construction

acres

homes

($ millions)

acquired

start (2)

1.

Avalon Fort Greene

New York, NY

1.0



January 2007


2.

Avalon Fashion Valley

San Diego, CA

10.0



March 2007


3.

Avalon Warner Park

Canoga Park, CA

4.2



March 2007


4.

Avalon Tinton Falls

Tinton Falls, NJ

35.0



April 2007


5.

Avalon at Mission Bay

North III

San Francisco, CA

1.5



May 2007


6.

Avalon Anaheim

Anaheim, CA

3.5



June 2007


7.

Avalon Matsu

Los Angeles, CA

1.7



June 2007


8.

Avalon Sharon

Sharon, MA

27.2



July 2007


9.

Avalon South Clark I

Chicago, IL

2.0



August 2007


10.

Avalon South Clark II

Chicago, IL

1.5



August 2007


11.

Avalon Jamboree Village II

Irvine, CA

2.8



September 2007


12.

Avalon Blue Hills

Randolph, MA

23.1



September 2007


13.

Avalon Northborough

Northborough, MA

33.7



October 2007


14.

Avalon at Mission Bay

North II (3)

San Francisco, CA

1.5


N/A

November 2007

Ground Lease Buyout

15.

Avalon Huntington

Shelton, CT

7.1



November 2007


16.

Avalon Rockville Centre

Rockville Centre, NY

7.1



November 2007


17.

Avalon at Garden City (4)

Garden City, NY

8.7

N/A

N/A

December 2007

N/A

Total

171.6

4,695

$

1,517

(1)

Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs incurred to date (if any) and projected
to be incurred to develop the respective community, determined in accordance with GAAP,
including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest
and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory
fees.

(2)

Future construction start dates are estimates. There can be no assurance that we will pursue
to completion any or all of these proposed developments.


(3)

This asset, which is owned by MVP I, LLC, a joint venture
entity in which the Company has a 25% ownership interest, was
completed in December 2006. The joint venture exercised its option to purchase the
land under the Ground Lease Agreement in November 2007.

(4)

A portion of this land will be redeveloped and operated by the Company. The multifamily
portion of the land for the Company’s development has not yet been purchased.

Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses

We carry commercial general liability insurance and property insurance with respect to all of our
communities. These policies, and other insurance policies we carry, have policy specifications,
insured limits and deductibles that we consider commercially reasonable. There are, however,
certain types of losses (such as losses arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or
in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s
view, economically impractical. You should carefully review the discussion under Item 1a., “Risk
Factors,” for a discussion of risks associated with an uninsured property or liability loss.

Many of our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults.
A large concentration of our communities lies near, and thus is susceptible to, the major fault
lines in California, including the San Andreas Fault and the Hayward Fault. We cannot assure you
that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels. We have in place
with respect to communities located in California, for any single occurrence and in the aggregate,
$75,000,000 of coverage with a deductible per building equal to five percent of the insured value
of that building. The five percent deductible is subject to a minimum of $100,000 per occurrence.
Earthquake coverage outside of California is subject to a $100,000,000 limit, except with respect
to the state of Washington, for which the limit is $65,000,000. Our earthquake insurance outside
of California provides for a $100,000 deductible per occurrence. In addition, up to a policy
aggregate of $2,000,000, the next $400,000 of loss per occurrence outside California will be
treated as an additional deductible.

On May 1, 2007, we renewed our property insurance policy for a 12 month term. On December 1,
2007, we elected to cancel and rewrite this policy for a 17 month term in order to take advantage
of declining insurance premium rates. As a result, our property insurance premium decreased by
approximately 15% with no material changes in coverage. The policy now expires on May 1, 2009.

Our annual general liability policy and workman’s compensation coverage renewed on August 1, 2007.
This policy is in effect until July 31, 2008.

Just as with office buildings, transportation systems and government buildings, there have been
reports that apartment communities could become targets of terrorism. In December 2007, Congress
passed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (“TRIPRA”) which is designed to
make terrorism insurance available through a federal back-stop program until 2014. In connection
with this legislation, we have purchased insurance for property damage due to terrorism up to
$200,000,000. Additionally, we have purchased insurance for certain terrorist acts, not covered
under TRIPRA, such as domestic-based terrorism. This insurance, often referred to as
“non-certified” terrorism insurance, is subject to deductibles, limits and exclusions. Our general
liability policy provides TRIPRA coverage (subject to deductibles and insured limits) for liability
to third parties that results from terrorist acts at our communities.

An additional consideration for insurance coverage and potential uninsured losses is mold growth.
Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials,
particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of
time. If a significant mold problem arises at one of our communities, we could be required to
undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected community
and could be exposed to other liabilities. For further discussion of the risks and the Company’s
related prevention and remediation activities, please refer to the discussion on environmental
contamination. We cannot provide assurance that we will have coverage under our existing policies
for property damage or liability to third parties arising as a result of exposure to mold or a
claim of exposure to mold at one of our communities.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are currently involved in litigation alleging that communities constructed by us violate the
accessibility requirements of the Fair Housing Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act. The
lawsuit, Equal Rights Center v. AvalonBay Communities, Inc., was filed on September 23, 2005 in the
federal district court in Maryland. The plaintiff seeks compensatory and punitive damages in
unspecified amounts as well as injunctive relief (such as modification of existing communities), an
award of attorneys’ fees, expenses and costs of suit. The Company has filed a motion to dismiss
all or parts of the suit, which has not been ruled on yet by the court. Due to the preliminary
nature of the litigation, we cannot predict or determine the outcome of this lawsuit, nor is it
reasonably possible to estimate the amount of loss, if any, that would be associated with an
adverse decision or settlement.

We are seeking compensatory damages, as well as punitive and treble damages, in a complaint we
filed in October 2007 in the U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria) against
a former vice president of the Company who had authority over repair and capital improvements at
existing communities (

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. v. James R. Willden)

. The complaint alleges,
among other things, that the former employee colluded to receive payments from a vendor in exchange
for approving invoices. We previously filed a complaint in the same court against this vendor and
its president (A

valonBay Communities, Inc. v. San Jose Water Conservation Corp. and Michael P.
Schroll).

We are investigating these and other payments approved by or under the supervision of
this former employee and may amend these complaints or file additional complaints. We do not
expect that the loss related to this matter will be material to our results of operations or
financial condition.

In addition to the matters described above, we are involved in various other claims and/or
administrative proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. While no assurances
can be given, we do not believe that any of these outstanding litigation matters, individually or
in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of 2007.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES

Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol AVB. The following table sets forth
the quarterly high and low sales prices per share of our common stock for the years 2007 and 2006,
as reported by the NYSE. On January 31, 2008 there were 813 holders of record of an aggregate of
76,845,045 shares of our outstanding common stock. The number of holders does not include
individuals or entities who beneficially own shares but whose shares are held of record by a broker
or clearing agency, but does include each such broker or clearing agency as one record holder.



Sales Price

Dividends

Sales Price

Dividends

High

Low

declared

High

Low

declared

Quarter ended March 31

$

149.94

$

125.30

$

0.85

$

110.45

$

88.95

$

0.78

Quarter ended June 30

$

134.62

$

115.38

$

0.85

$

112.00

$

100.50

$

0.78

Quarter ended September

$

128.46

$

105.91

$

0.85

$

125.21

$

110.27

$

0.78

Quarter ended December 31

$

125.48

$

88.97

$

0.85

$

134.60

$

119.31

$

0.78

We expect to continue our policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends. However, dividend
distributions will be declared at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on
actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution
requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and other factors as the Board
of Directors may consider relevant. The Board of Directors may modify our dividend policy from
time to time. In February 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a dividend on
our common stock for the first quarter of 2008 of $0.8925 per share, a 5.0% increase over the
previous quarterly dividend of $0.85 per share. The increased dividend will be payable on April
15, 2008 to all common stockholders of record as of April 1, 2008.


Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

(c)

(d)

(b)

Total Number of

Maximum Dollar Amount

(a)

Average Price

Shares Purchased

that May Yet be Purchased

Total Number of

Paid per

as Part of Publicly

Under the Plans or

Shares Purchased

Share

Announced Plans

Programs

Period

(1)

(1)

or Programs (2)

(in thousands) (2)

Month Ended
October 31, 2007

—

$

—

—

$

385,197

Month Ended
November 30, 2007

1,120,900

$

100.42

1,120,900

$

272,639

Month Ended
December 31, 2007

328,574

$

92.88

328,316

$

242,145

Month Ended
January 31, 2008

483,036

$

87.32

482,100

$

200,000

(1)

Includes shares surrendered to the Company in connection with employee stock
option exercises or vesting of restricted stock as payment of exercise price or as
payment of taxes.

(2)

On August 8, 2007, we announced that our the Board of Directors voted to
increase the aggregate limit of our common stock repurchase program to $300,000,000.
On February 6, 2008, we disclosed that our Board of Directors voted to further increase
the authorized limit to $500,000,000. All amounts presented in the table above include
this further increase. In determining whether to repurchase shares, we consider a
variety of factors, including our liquidity needs, the then current market price of our
shares and the effect of the share repurchases on our per share earnings and FFO.
There is no scheduled expiration date to this program.

Information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is
included in the section entitled “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
and Related Stockholder Matters” in this Form 10-K.


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following table provides historical consolidated financial, operating and other data for
AvalonBay Communities, Inc. You should read the table with our Consolidated Financial Statements
and the Notes included in this report (dollars in thousands, except per share information).

For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

806,599

$

715,170

$

650,907

$

598,656

$

545,794

Management, development and other fees

6,142

6,259

4,304



Total revenue

812,741

721,429

655,211

599,260

546,690

Expenses:

Operating expenses, excluding property taxes

242,702

217,134

197,990

187,804

169,039

Property taxes

74,912

66,786

63,975

57,907

52,215

Interest expense, net

97,545

109,184

125,171

129,106

128,183

Depreciation expense

179,549

160,442

156,455

149,721

137,311

General and administrative expense

28,494

24,767

25,761

18,074

14,830

Total expenses

623,202

578,313

569,352

542,612

501,578

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

59,169

7,455

7,198

1,100

25,535

Venture partner interest in profit-sharing

—

—

—

(1,178

)

(1,688

)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

(1,585

)

(573

)

(1,481

)

(150

)

(950

)

Gain on sale of communities


13,519

4,479

1,138

1,234

Income from continuing operations before
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

247,668

163,517

96,055

57,558

69,243

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

4,005

5,618

19,126

24,387

33,504

Gain on sale of communities

106,487

97,411

195,287

121,287

159,756

Total discontinued operations

110,492

103,029

214,413

145,674

193,260

Income before cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle

358,160

266,546

310,468

203,232

262,503

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

—

—

4,547

—

Net income

358,160

266,546

310,468

207,779

262,503

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(10,744

)

Net income available to common stockholders

$

349,460

$

257,846

$

301,768

$

199,079

$

251,759

Per Common Share and Share Information:

Earnings per
common share — basic:

Income from continuing operations
(net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

3.04

$

2.09

$

1.20

$

0.75

$

0.85

Discontinued operations

1.40

1.39

2.94

2.03

2.82

Net income available to common stockholders

$

4.44

$

3.48

$

4.14

$

2.78

$

3.67

Weighted average common shares outstanding — basic

78,680,043

74,125,795

72,952,492

71,564,202

68,559,657

Earnings per
common share — diluted:

Income from continuing operations
(net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

3.00

$

2.06

$

1.18

$

0.75

$

0.84

Discontinued operations

1.38

1.36

2.87

2.00

2.76

Net income available to common stockholders

$

4.38

$

3.42

$

4.05

$

2.75

$

3.60

Weighted average common shares outstanding — diluted

79,856,927

75,586,898

74,759,318

73,354,956

70,203,467

Cash dividends declared

$

3.40

$

3.12

$

2.84

$

2.80

$

2.80


For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Other Information:

Net income

$

358,160

$

266,546

$

310,468

$

207,779

$

262,503

Depreciation — continuing operations

179,549

160,442

156,455

149,721

137,311

Depreciation — discontinued operations

2,176

3,687

6,842

14,179

17,414

Interest expense, net — continuing operations

97,545

109,184

125,171

129,106

128,183

Interest expense, net — discontinued operations


1,862

1,927

2,522

4,394

EBITDA (1)

$

638,117

$

541,721

$

600,863

$

503,307

$

549,805

Funds from Operations (2)

$

368,057

$

320,199

$

271,096

$

235,514

$

222,473

Number of Current Communities (3)






Number of apartment homes

45,932

43,141

41,412

40,142

38,504

Balance Sheet Information:

Real estate, before accumulated depreciation

$

7,556,740

$

6,615,593

$

5,940,146

$

5,734,122

$

5,468,735

Total assets

$

6,736,484

$

5,848,507

$

5,198,598

$

5,116,019

$

4,945,585

Notes payable and unsecured credit facilities

$

3,208,202

$

2,866,433

$

2,334,017

$

2,451,354

$

2,337,817

Cash Flow Information:

Net cash flows provided by operating activities

$

455,825

$

351,660

$

306,248

$

275,617

$

239,677

Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities

$

(809,247

)

$

(511,371

)

$

(19,761

)

$

(251,683

)

$

33,935

Net cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities

$

366,360

$

162,280

$

(282,293

)

$

(29,471

)

$

(279,465

)

Notes to Selected Financial Data

(1)

EBITDA is defined as net income before interest income and expense, income taxes,
depreciation and amortization from both continuing and discontinued operations. Under this
definition, EBITDA includes gains on sale of assets and gain on sale of partnership interests.
Management generally considers EBITDA to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income
of our operating performance because it helps investors to understand our ability to incur and
service debt and to make capital expenditures. EBITDA should not be considered as an
alternative to net income (as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, or “GAAP”), as an indicator of our operating performance, or to cash flows from
operating activities (as determined in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of liquidity. Our
calculation of EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA as calculated by other companies.

(2)

We generally consider Funds from Operations, or “FFO,” as defined below, to be an appropriate
supplemental measure of our operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or
losses related to dispositions of previously depreciated property and excluding real estate
depreciation, which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on
historical cost accounting and useful life estimates, FFO can help one compare the operating
performance of a real estate company between periods or as compared to different companies.
We believe that in order to understand our operating results, FFO should be examined with net
income as presented in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive
Income included elsewhere in this report.

(3)

Current Communities consist of all communities other than those which are still under
construction and have not received a certificate of occupancy.

Consistent with the definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts

â

(“NAREIT”), we calculate FFO as net income or loss
computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for:

•

gains or losses on sales of previously depreciated operating communities;

•

extraordinary gains or losses (as defined by GAAP);

•

cumulative effect of change in accounting principle;

•

depreciation of real estate assets; and

•

adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.


FFO does not represent net income in accordance with GAAP, and therefore it should not be
considered an alternative to net income, which remains the primary measure, as an indication of
our performance. In addition, FFO as calculated by other REITs may not be comparable to our
calculation of FFO.

FFO also does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP, and
therefore should not be considered an alternative to net cash flows from operating activities,
as determined by GAAP, as a measure of liquidity. Additionally, it is not necessarily
indicative of cash available to fund cash needs. A presentation of GAAP based cash flow
metrics is provided in “Cash Flow Information” in the table on the previous page.

The following is a reconciliation of net income to FFO (dollars in thousands, except per share
data):

For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

12-31-04

12-31-03

Net income

$

358,160

$

266,546

$

310,468

$

207,779

$

262,503

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(10,744

)

Depreciation — real estate assets,
including discontinued operations and
joint venture adjustments

184,731

165,982

163,252

159,221

129,207

Minority interest expense,
including discontinued operations



1,363

3,048

1,263

Gain on sale of unconsolidated entities
holding previously depreciated real estate assets

(59,927

)

(6,609

)

—

—

—

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

—

—

(4,547

)

—

Gain on sale of previously depreciated real estate
assets

(106,487

)

(97,411

)

(195,287

)

(121,287

)

(159,756

)

Funds from Operations
attributable to common stockholders

$

368,057

$

320,199

$

271,096

$

235,514

$

222,473

Weighted average common shares outstanding -
diluted

79,856,927

75,586,898

74,759,318

73,354,956

70,203,467

FFO per common share — diluted

$

4.61

$

4.24

$

3.63

$

3.21

$

3.17


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is
intended to help provide an understanding of our business and results of operations. This MD&A
should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. This report, including the
following MD&A, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events or trends as described
more fully under “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 55 of this report. Actual results or
developments could differ materially from those projected in such statements as a result of the
risk factors described in Item 1a, “Risk Factors,” of this report.

Executive Overview

Business Description

We are primarily engaged in developing, acquiring, owning and operating apartment communities in
high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. We believe that apartment communities are an
attractive long-term investment opportunity compared to other real estate investments because a
broad potential resident base should help reduce demand volatility over a real estate cycle.
However, throughout the real estate cycle, apartment market fundamentals, and therefore operating
cash flows, are affected by overall economic conditions. We seek to create long-term shareholder
value by accessing capital on cost effective terms; deploying that capital to develop, redevelop
and acquire apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets; operating apartment
communities; and selling communities when they no longer meet our long-term investment strategy or
when pricing is attractive. Barriers-to-entry in our markets generally include a difficult and
lengthy entitlement process with local jurisdictions and dense urban or suburban areas where zoned
and entitled land is in limited supply.

We regularly evaluate the allocation of our investments by the amount of invested capital and by
product type within our individual markets, which are located in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic,
Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern California regions of the United States. Our
strategy is to more deeply penetrate these markets with a broad range of products and services and
an intense focus on our customer. Our communities are predominately upscale, which generally
command among the highest rents in their markets. However, we also pursue the ownership and
operation of apartment communities that target a variety of customer segments and price points,
consistent with our goal of offering a broad range of products and services.

Financial Highlights and Outlook

Net income available to common stockholders for the quarter ended December 31, 2007 was
$129,644,000, as compared to $44,138,000 for the quarter ended December 31, 2006, an increase of
193.7%. For the year ended December 31, 2007, net income available to common stockholders was
$349,460,000 compared to $257,846,000 for 2006, an increase of 35.5%. These increases are
primarily attributable to an increase in gains from the sale of communities and joint venture real
estate investments in 2007 as compared to 2006 and growth in income from existing and newly
developed communities in 2007.

Apartment fundamentals remained positive in 2007 as evidenced by full year-over-year rental revenue
growth of 5.5% achieved within our Established Community portfolio (as defined later in this
report), comprised of an increase in rental rates of 5.8% and a decrease in occupancy of 0.3%.
This revenue growth combined with constrained expense growth contributed to our Established
Community portfolio achieving year-over-year growth in net operating income (“NOI”) of 7.2% in
2007. For the fourth quarter of 2007, our Established Communities experienced an increase in
rental revenue of 4.4% and a corresponding increase in NOI of 4.9% over the prior year period,
evidencing the moderating, but continued growth in operations.

Projected growth in earnings per share — diluted (“EPS”) in our current financial outlook is
expected to be between 48.4% and 94.1% driven primarily by gains on the sale of communities that may occur under our expanded disposition program. In addition, we expect that our Established Communities
will continue to show revenue and net operating income growth in
2008, but at a lesser rate
relative to growth levels in 2007. Despite third party forecasts of a weaker economic
environment, we anticipate positive renter demand resulting from a continued reduction in
homeownership rates and a general increase in the propensity to rent. Declining home ownership
rates
are the result of a number of factors, including concerns regarding home prices and economic
growth, demographic growth in those age groups that have historically demonstrated a higher
propensity to rent as well as tighter underwriting standards for mortgages. Management expects
the level of new rental completions in the Company’s markets will decline modestly during 2008
from 2007 levels and competition from unsold housing inventory made available for rent will remain
modest relative to more oversupplied residential markets in the U.S. Overall we expect apartment
market fundamentals will be balanced in our markets, supporting moderate growth in earnings. Our
current financial outlook provides for 2008 rental growth of 2.5% to 4.0% in our established
community portfolio and projected NOI growth of 3.0% to 4.5%


We expect that our development activity will continue to create long-term value. We currently have
approximately $2,162,500,000 under construction (measured by total projected capitalized cost of
the communities at completion, including the portions in which joint venture partners hold an
equity or economic interest). For 2008, we expect new development starts in the range of
$900,000,000 to $1,100,000,000 measured at projected cost of completion, including projects that
may be developed through joint ventures. This is a decrease in new activity from 2007 reflecting
the current economic and capital market conditions. We continue to be selective in pursuing new
development opportunities. Land prices generally have not re-set in most of our markets, but we
are seeing construction cost increases stabilizing. Construction costs for certain materials have
begun to decline while prices for other materials remain high given strong global demand. There is
also greater availability of experienced subcontractors and trade professionals as a result of
slowing construction in both the condominium and single-family housing markets. We continue to
selectively secure new Development Rights, including the acquisition of land for future
development. We currently have Development Rights for construction of new apartment communities
that would, if developed as expected, total approximately $3,918,000,000 based on total projected
capitalized costs at December 31, 2007. We also expect to increase our redevelopment activities in
2008, for both wholly owned and Fund (as defined below) related assets. While current market
conditions with respect to liquidity may impact the types of funding sources used, we believe that
our current level of indebtedness, our current ability to service interest and other fixed charges
and our current limited use of financial encumbrances (such as secured financing) on our assets
provide us with the financial position and financial flexibility to access the capital necessary
to fund our development and redevelopment activities. We expect to meet these needs from both
secured and unsecured debt, as well as asset sales and retained cash.

AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P. (the “Fund”) is a discretionary investment fund in which we hold a
15% interest. The Fund has been our principal vehicle for acquiring
apartment communities, subject
to certain exceptions, since its formation in March 2005. The Fund acquired seven communities for
an aggregate purchase price of $305,450,000 during 2007. As of January 31, 2008, the total amount
invested by the Fund is $779,318,000. Management of the Fund expects to invest approximately
$39,000,000 of additional funds to redevelop the assets acquired, at which time, the Fund will
become fully invested. We are exploring various potential sources and vehicles for funding future
acquisitions after the Fund is fully invested.

We continue to see real estate capital flows from income investors. In 2007, we completed the
disposition of four communities and one partnership interest for an aggregate gross sales price of
$268,096,000. Given the current levels of demand from investors for high quality multifamily real
estate assets, we anticipate increasing our level of disposition activity to a range of
$700,000,000 to $1,000,000,000 in 2008. Actual disposition activity will depend on various factors
including market and economic conditions.

Communities Overview

Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities,
communities in various stages of development (“Development Communities”) and Development Rights
(i.e., land or options to purchase land held for development), as further described in Item 2 of
this report. Our current operating communities are further distinguished as Established
Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities and Redevelopment Communities.
Established Communities are generally operating communities that are consolidated for financial
reporting purposes and were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the
beginning of the prior year, which allows the performance of these communities and the markets in
which they are located to be compared and monitored between years. Other Stabilized Communities
are generally all other consolidated operating communities that have stabilized occupancy and
operating expenses during the current year, but had not achieved stabilization as of the beginning
of the prior year. Lease-Up Communities consist of communities where construction is complete but
stabilization has not been achieved. Redevelopment Communities consist of communities where
substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current year.
A more detailed description of our reportable segments and other related operating information can
be found in Note 9, “Segment Reporting,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.


Although each of these categories is important to our business, we generally evaluate overall
operating, industry and market trends based on the operating results of Established Communities,
for which a detailed discussion can be found in “Results of Operations” as part of our discussion
of overall operating results. We evaluate our current and future cash needs and future operating
potential based on acquisition, disposition, development, redevelopment and financing activities
within Other Stabilized, Redevelopment and Development Communities, and discussions related to
these segments of our business can be found in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”

The net operating income of our current operating communities, as defined later in this report, is
one of the financial measures that we use to evaluate community performance. Net operating income
is affected by the demand and supply dynamics within our markets, our rental rates and occupancy
levels, and our ability to control operating costs. Our overall financial performance is also
impacted by the general availability and cost of capital and the performance of newly developed and
acquired apartment communities.

As of December 31, 2007, we owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 184 apartment
communities containing 52,748 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which
21 communities were under construction and eight communities were under reconstruction. Of these
communities, 23 were owned by entities that were not consolidated for financial reporting purposes,
including 20 owned by the Fund. In addition, we owned a direct or indirect ownership interest in
Development Rights to develop an additional 48 communities that, if developed in the manner
expected, will contain an estimated 13,656 apartment homes.

Results of Operations

Our year-over-year operating performance is primarily affected by individual geographic market
conditions and apartment fundamentals as measured by changes in net operating income of our
Established Communities; net operating income derived from acquisitions and development
completions; the loss of net operating income related to disposed communities; and capital market,
disposition and financing activity. A comparison of our operating results for the years 2007, 2006
and 2005 follows (dollars in thousands):




$ Change

% Change



$ Change

% Change

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

806,599

$

715,170

$

91,429

12.8

%

$

715,170

$

650,907

$

64,263

9.9

%

Management, development and other fees

6,142

6,259

(117

)

(1.9

%)

6,259

4,304

1,955

45.4

%

Total revenue

812,741

721,429

91,312

12.7

%

721,429

655,211

66,218

10.1

%

Expenses:

Direct property operating expenses,
excluding property taxes

192,338

175,927

16,411

9.3

%

175,927

161,913

14,014

8.7

%

Property taxes

74,912

66,786

8,126

12.2

%

66,786

63,975

2,811

4.4

%

Total community operating expenses

267,250

242,713

24,537

10.1

%

242,713

225,888

16,825

7.4

%

Corporate-level property management
and other indirect operating expenses

38,627

34,177

4,450

13.0

%

34,177

31,243

2,934

9.4

%

Investments and investment management

11,737

7,030

4,707

67.0

%

7,030

4,834

2,196

45.4

%

Interest expense, net

97,545

109,184

(11,639

)

(10.7

%)

109,184

125,171

(15,987

)

(12.8

%)

Depreciation expense

179,549

160,442

19,107

11.9

%

160,442

156,455

3,987

2.5

%

General and administrative expense

28,494

24,767

3,727

15.0

%

24,767

25,761

(994

)

(3.9

%)

Total other expenses

355,952

335,600

20,352

6.1

%

335,600

343,464

(7,864

)

(2.3

%)

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

59,169

7,455

51,714

693.7

%

7,455

7,198


3.6%

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

(1,585

)

(573

)

(1,012

)

176.6

%

(573

)

(1,481

)


(61.3

%)

Gain on sale of land


13,519

(12,974

)

(96.0

%)

13,519

4,479

9,040

201.8

%

Income from continuing operations

247,668

163,517

84,151

51.5

%

163,517

96,055

67,462

70.2

%

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

4,005

5,618

(1,613

)

(28.7

%)

5,618

19,126

(13,508

)

(70.6

%)

Gain on sale of communities

106,487

97,411

9,076

9.3

%

97,411

195,287

(97,876

)

(50.1

%)

Total discontinued operations

110,492

103,029

7,463

7.2

%

103,029

214,413

(111,384

)

(51.9

%)

Net income

358,160

266,546

91,614

34.4

%

266,546

310,468

(43,922

)

(14.1

%)

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

—

—

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

—

—

Net income available to common stockholders

$

349,460

$

257,846

$

91,614

35.5

%

$

257,846

$

301,768

$

(43,922

)

(14.6

%)

Net income available to common stockholders

increased $91,614,000 or 35.5%, to $349,460,000 in 2007
due primarily to sales of consolidated operating communities and investments in unconsolidated
entities and related gains occurring in 2007 combined with growth in net operating income from
Established Communities and contributions to net operating income from newly developed communities
in 2007. Net income available to common stockholders decreased $43,922,000, or 14.6%, to
$257,846,000 in 2006, primarily attributable to reduced asset sales and the related gains, partially
offset by growth in net operating income from Established Communities and contributions to net
operating income from newly developed communities.

Net operating income (“NOI”)

is considered by management to be an important and appropriate
supplemental performance measure to net income because it helps both investors and management to
understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any
corporate-level or financing-related costs. NOI reflects the operating performance of a community
and allows for an easy comparison of the operating performance of individual assets or groups of
assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different financing and
overhead structures, with varying marginal impacts to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is
considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of
a real estate asset or group of assets. We define NOI as total property revenue less direct
property operating expenses, including property taxes.

NOI does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Therefore, NOI should not be considered an alternative to
net income as an indication of our performance. NOI should also not be considered an alternative
to net cash flow from operating activities, as determined by GAAP, as a measure of liquidity, nor
is NOI necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs. A calculation of NOI for the
years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, along with reconciliation to net income for each
year, is as follows (dollars in thousands):


For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

Net income

$

358,160

$

266,546

$

310,468

Indirect operating expenses, net of corporate
income

31,285

28,811

26,675

Investments and investment management

11,737

7,030

4,834

Interest expense, net

97,545

109,184

125,171

General and administrative expense

28,494

24,767

25,761

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

(59,169

)

(7,455

)

(7,198

)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

1,585


1,481

Depreciation expense

179,549

160,442

156,455

Gain on sale of real estate assets

(107,032

)

(110,930

)

(199,766

)

Income from discontinued operations

(4,005

)

(5,618

)

(19,126

)

Net operating income

$

538,149

$

473,350

$

424,755

The NOI increases in both 2007 and 2006, as compared to the prior year period, consist of changes
in the following categories (dollars in thousands):



Increase

Increase

Established Communities

$

29,866

$

32,083

Other Stabilized Communities

10,185

5,379

Development and Redevelopment Communities

24,748

11,133

Total

$

64,799

$

48,595

The NOI increases in Established Communities in 2007 were largely due to continued favorable
apartment market fundamentals. During 2007, we continued to focus on rental rate growth, while
maintaining occupancy of at least 95% in all regions. We anticipate that increases in rental rates
and overall rental revenue growth will moderate in 2008 as compared to 2007, as we expect a slower
rate of job growth (demand) and a decline in new rental completions in our markets (supply). We
expect revenue growth from our Established Communities of 2.5% to 4.0% in 2008 as compared to 2007.
In addition, we continue to monitor and manage operating expenses to constrain expense growth. We
expect operating expenses at our Established Communities to increase by 2.0% to 3.0% in 2008 as
compared to 2007 from increasing property tax, labor and utility expenses. Overall, we anticipate
growth in NOI from our Established Communities of 3.0% to 4.5% in 2008 as compared to 2007.

The Company has given projected NOI growth in 2008 only for Established Communities and not on a
company-wide basis. The Company believes that NOI growth of the Established Communities assists
investors in understanding management’s estimate of the likely contribution to operations from
Established Communities. However, the Company has not provided a projection of NOI growth on a
company-wide basis due to the difficulty in projecting the timing of new development starts,
dispositions and acquisitions, as well as the complexities involved in projecting the allocation of
corporate-level property management overhead, general and administrative costs and interest expense
to communities not yet developed, disposed or acquired. NOI growth expected from Established
Communities is not a projection of the Company’s projected consolidated financial performance or
projected cash flow.

Rental and other income

increased in 2007 as compared to the prior year due to increased rental
rates for our Established Communities, coupled with additional rental income generated from newly
developed communities.

Overall Portfolio — The weighted average number of occupied apartment homes increased to
38,436 apartment homes for 2007 as compared to 37,716 apartment homes for 2006 and 36,520
apartment homes for 2005. This change is primarily the result of increased homes available
from newly developed and acquired communities, partially offset by communities sold in 2007
and 2006. The weighted average monthly revenue per occupied apartment home increased to
$1,767 in 2007 as compared to $1,610 in 2006 and $1,516 in 2005.


Established
Communities - Rental revenue increased $34,257,000, or 5.5%, for 2007 and
increased $35,871,000, or 6.8% in 2006. These increases are due to increased average
rental rates, partially offset by decreased economic occupancy. For 2007, the weighted
average monthly revenue per occupied apartment home increased 5.8% to $1,795 compared to
$1,697 in 2006, primarily due to increased market rents and the decrease in the
amortization of concessions. The higher amortization recognized in 2006 was due to the
higher levels of concessions granted in periods prior to 2006. The average economic
occupancy decreased 0.3% to 96.3% in 2007. Economic occupancy takes into account the
fact that apartment homes of different sizes and locations within a community have
different economic impacts on a community’s gross revenue. Economic occupancy is defined
as gross potential revenue less vacancy loss, as a percentage of gross potential revenue.
Gross potential revenue is determined by valuing occupied homes at leased rates and vacant
homes at market rents.

We experienced increases in Established Communities’ rental revenue in all six of our regions
in 2007 as compared to 2006. The largest increases in rental revenue were in the Pacific
Northwest, Northern California and the Mid-Atlantic, with increases of 11.1%, 8.6% and 5.9%,
respectively, between years. The Northeast and Northern California regions comprise the
majority of our Established Community revenue, and therefore are discussed in more detail
below.

Northern California, which represented approximately 24.6% of Established Community rental
revenue during 2007, experienced an increase in rental revenue of 8.6% in 2007 as compared
to 2006. Average rental rates increased by 8.3% to $1,699, and economic occupancy increased
0.3% to 97.0% in 2007. Apartment fundamentals remain strong in Northern California. We
expect Northern California to see continued but moderating revenue growth during 2008 at
growth levels in excess of those expected in other markets.

The Northeast region, which accounted for approximately 42.3% of Established Community rental
revenue during 2007, experienced an increase in rental revenue of 3.2% in 2007 as compared to
2006. Average rental rates increased 3.5% to $2,129, and economic occupancy decreased 0.3% to
96.2% in 2007. We expect overall apartment fundamentals in the Northeast region will be
balanced during 2008, with slower job growth and except in the Boston area, minimal net new
rental supply. Supply-demand fundamentals for New York City and surrounding areas should remain
healthy, although changes in employment levels in the financial services industry could cause
economic growth to decelerate. Boston will continue to lag the region in revenue growth, as we
expect the net new supply from apartment deliveries will outpace improvement in the region’s
economy. These factors support our expectation for moderate rental rate growth in 2008.

In accordance with GAAP, cash concessions are amortized as an offset to rental revenue over the
approximate lease term, which is generally one year. As a supplemental measure, we also present
rental revenue with concessions stated on a cash basis to help investors evaluate the impact of
both current and historical concessions on GAAP based rental revenue and to more readily enable
comparisons to revenue as reported by other companies. Rental revenue with concessions stated on a
cash basis also allows investors to understand historical trends in cash concessions, as well as
current rental market conditions.

The following table reconciles total rental revenue in conformity with GAAP to total rental revenue
adjusted to state concessions on a cash basis for our Established Communities for the years ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006 (dollars in thousands). Information for the year ended December 31,
2005 is not presented, as Established Community classification is not comparable prior to January
1, 2006. See Note 9, “Segment Reporting,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.


For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

Rental revenue (GAAP basis)

$

652,129

$

617,872

Concessions amortized

6,119

12,336

Concessions granted

(6,234

)

(6,236

)

Rental revenue adjusted to state
concessions on a cash basis

$

652,014

$

623,972

Year-over-year % change — GAAP revenue

5.5

%

n/a

Year-over-year % change — cash
concession based revenue

4.5

%

n/a

Management, development and other fees

decreased $117,000, or 1.9% in 2007 and increased $1,955,000
or 45.4% in 2006. The decrease in 2007 was due to lower development and redevelopment management
fees, coupled with the loss of fees due to the disposition of our interest in a joint venture,
partially offset by increased property management fees from the Fund, as additional communities are
acquired. The increase in 2006 over 2005 was due to a full year of management fees from the Fund,
which was formed in March 2005.

Direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes

increased $16,411,000 or 9.3% and
$14,014,000 or 8.7% in 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily due to the addition of recently
developed and acquired apartment homes coupled with expense growth in our Established Communities.

For Established Communities, direct property operating expenses, excluding property taxes,
increased $1,661,000, or 1.1%, and $3,030,000, or 2.4%, to $148,628,000 and $131,106,000 in 2007
and 2006, respectively, due primarily to increases in other maintenance, marketing and landscaping
expenses offset by lower utility and redecorating costs.

Property taxes

increased $8,126,000 or 12.2% and $2,811,000 or 4.4% in 2007 and 2006,
respectively, due to overall higher assessments and the addition of newly developed and
redeveloped apartment homes. Property taxes are impacted by the size and timing of successful
tax appeals in both years.

For Established Communities, property taxes increased by $2,618,000, or 4.5%, and $721,000, or
1.4% in 2007 and 2006, respectively, due to higher assessments throughout all regions. Year
over year changes are impacted by the size and timing of successful tax appeals

.

Overall, we
expect property taxes in 2008 to increase from 2007 levels due to increased valuations and the
addition of newly developed communities. Despite the potential decreases in real estate
property values for tax purposes, there is generally a lag to the ultimate recognition of any
savings in the real estate tax assessments. In addition, property tax increases are limited by
law (Proposition 13) for communities in California. We evaluate property tax increases
internally, as well as engage third-party consultants, and appeal increases when appropriate.

Corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses

increased by $4,450,000,
or 13.0% and $2,934,000, or 9.4%, in 2007 and 2006, respectively, over the prior year periods due
primarily to increased costs relating to corporate initiatives focused on increasing efficiency and
enhancing controls at our operating communities, coupled with increased compensation and relocation
costs. The 2007 expense includes the set up costs related to the office in Virginia Beach,
Virginia that we opened in 2007. This office will be used to centralize certain community-related
accounting, administrative and customer service functions. The transition began during the third
quarter of 2007, when certain community-related accounting functions were relocated to our Virginia
Beach office and is expected to continue through the end of 2008. Expenses in this category
increased in 2006, primarily due to the addition of recently developed and acquired apartment homes
coupled with expense growth in our Established Communities.

Investments and investment management

reflects the costs incurred for investment acquisitions,
investment management and abandoned pursuit costs, which include costs incurred for development
pursuits not yet considered probable for development, as well as the abandonment or impairment of
development pursuits, acquisition pursuits and disposition pursuits. Investments and investment
management costs increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 due primarily to increased abandoned pursuit
costs. Abandoned pursuit costs were $6,974,000 in 2007, $2,115,000 in 2006 and $816,000 in 2005.
Abandoned pursuit costs can be volatile, and the costs incurred in any given period may vary
significantly in future periods.


Interest expense, net

decreased $11,639,000 or 10.7% in 2007 and $15,987,000 or 12.8% in 2006 due
primarily to higher levels of capitalized interest in connection with our increased development
activity and increased interest income, partially offset by an increase in the average outstanding
balance on our unsecured credit facility. Interest income increased in 2007 due to higher invested
cash balances from our January 2007 equity offering as well as increases in the interest rate
earned on cash deposits, offset partially by interest income in 2006 from an escrow funded from a
disposition in 2005 that was used in a tax-deferred exchange.

Depreciation
expense

increased $19,107,000 or 11.9% in 2007 and $3,987,000 or 2.5% in 2006
primarily due to the completion of development and redevelopment
activities, partially offset by the loss of depreciation from assets
sold.

General and administrative expense

(“G&A”) increased $3,727,000 or 15.0% in 2007 primarily due to
increased compensation costs. G&A expenses decreased $994,000 or 3.9% in 2006 primarily due to the
incurrence in 2005 of the following: (i) separation costs of approximately $2,100,000 due to the
departure of a senior executive; (ii) the accrual of costs related to various litigation matters of
approximately $1,500,000; and (iii) increased board of director fees due to the acceleration of
equity awards with the resignation of a director due to disability in 2005, partially offset by
higher compensation costs in 2006.

Gain on sale of land

in 2007 decreased from 2006 due to the volume and size of land parcels sold in
each year. The increase in 2006 from 2005 is due to larger gains on sales in 2006.

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

in 2007 increased from 2006 due primarily to the
recognition in 2007 of approximately $60,000,000 in gains from the disposition of two investments,
partially offset by losses (after depreciation) associated with two unconsolidated investments and
the consolidation in 2007 of a community that was not consolidated as of December 31, 2006.

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 due to the
recognition of the sale of a 70% joint venture partner interest in one of our consolidated
communities (See Note 6, “Investment in Real Estate Entities”). This increase was partially offset
by the conversion and redemption of limited partnership units, thereby reducing outside ownership
interests and the allocation of net income to outside ownership
interests. The year-over-year
decrease in 2006 was due to the conversion of limited partnership units, reducing the outside
ownership interests.

Income from discontinued operations

represents the net income generated by communities sold or
qualifying as discontinued operations during the period from January 1, 2006 through December 31,
2007. It decreased in 2007 and 2006 due to fewer communities sold or classified as discontinued
operations. See Note 7, “Real Estate Disposition Activities,” of our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Gain on sale of communities

increased in 2007 due to the higher volume of dispositions in 2007.
The decrease in 2006 as compared to 2005 is due to the volume and size of dispositions in the
respective years relative to our basis in the assets. The amount of gain realized in any given
reporting period depends on many factors, including the number of communities sold, the size and
carrying value of those communities and the sales prices, which are driven by local and national
market conditions.

Funds from Operations Attributable to Common Stockholders (“FFO”)

FFO is considered by management to be an appropriate supplemental measure of our operating and
financial performance. In calculating FFO, we exclude gains or losses related to dispositions of
previously depreciated property and exclude real estate depreciation, which can vary among owners
of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life
estimates. FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a real estate company between
periods or as compared to different companies. We believe that in order to understand our
operating results, FFO should be examined with net income as presented in our Consolidated
Financial Statements included elsewhere this report. For a more detailed discussion and
presentation of FFO, see “Selected Financial Data,” included in Item 6 of this report.


Liquidity and Capital Resources

Factors affecting our liquidity and capital resources are our cash flows from operations, financing
activities and investing activities, as well as general economic and market conditions. Operating
cash flow has historically been determined by: (i) the number of apartment homes currently owned,
(ii) rental rates, (iii) occupancy levels and (iv) operating expenses with respect to apartment
homes. The timing, source and amount of cash flows provided by financing activities and used in
investing activities are sensitive to the capital markets environment, particularly to changes in
interest rates. The timing and type of capital markets activity in which we engage, as well as our
plans for development, redevelopment, acquisition and disposition activity, are affected by changes
in the capital markets environment, such as changes in interest rates or the availability of
cost-effective capital.

We regularly review our liquidity needs, the adequacy of cash flows from operations, and other
expected liquidity sources to meet these needs. We believe our principal short-term liquidity
needs are to fund:

•

normal recurring operating expenses;

•

debt service and maturity payments;

•

preferred stock dividends and DownREIT partnership unit distributions;

•

the minimum dividend payments on our common stock required to maintain our REIT
qualification under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;

•

development and redevelopment activity in which we are currently engaged; and

•

capital calls for the Fund, as required.

Increased capital market volatility in 2007 and constrained liquidity suggest that our liquidity
needs may be met in 2008 from sources that differ from historical
sources. Increased use of
secured debt and increased asset sales relative to our recent activity are expected for 2008.
Although general market liquidity is constrained, we anticipate that we can satisfy these needs
from a combination of cash flow provided by operating activities, proceeds from asset dispositions
and borrowing capacity under our variable rate unsecured credit facility, as well as secured
financings and other public or private sources of liquidity.

Cash and cash equivalents totaled $21,222,000 at December 31, 2007, an increase of $12,938,000 from
$8,284,000 at December 31, 2006. The following discussion relates to changes in cash due to
operating, investing and financing activities, which are presented in our Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows included elsewhere in this report.

Operating
Activities – Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $455,825,000 in
2007 from $351,660,000 in 2006. The increase was driven primarily by the additional NOI from
our Established Communities’ operations, as well as NOI from recently developed communities.

Investing
Activities – Net cash used in investing activities of $809,247,000 in 2007 related to
investments in assets through the development and redevelopment of apartment communities, the
acquisition of a community, and the acquisition of 17 land parcels, partially offset by proceeds
from the disposition of a land parcel, four communities and a partnership interest in an
unconsolidated real estate investment. During 2007, we invested $1,141,706,000 in the purchase
and development of the following real estate and capital expenditures:

•

We completed the development of eight communities containing a total of 1,749 apartment
homes for a total capitalized cost, including land acquisition cost, of $440,700,000.

•

We acquired 17 parcels of land in connection with Development Rights, for an aggregate
purchase price of $311,691,000

.

•

We had capital expenditures relating to current communities’ real estate assets of
$13,851,000 and non-real estate capital expenditures of $1,424,000.


•

We commenced the development of 12 communities which are expected to contain a total of
3,412 apartment homes for an expected aggregate total capital cost of $1,279,800,000.

Financing Activities – Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $366,360,000 in 2007.
The net cash inflow is due primarily to the proceeds from the issuance of 4,600,000 shares of
the Company’s common stock at $129.30 per share, borrowings of $514,500,000 under our unsecured
credit facility and the issuance of two mortgage notes for approximately $59,126,000, offset by
the repurchase of 2,480,616 shares of our common stock at an average price of $103.95 per share,
the repayment of mortgage notes of approximately $27,256,000, the repayment of unsecured notes
at maturity of approximately $260,000,000 and dividend payments of $268,966,000.

Variable Rate Unsecured Credit Facility

In
November 2007, we increased our borrowing capacity under our existing revolving variable rate
unsecured credit facility from $650,000,000 to $1,000,000,000. The facility is with a syndicate of
commercial banks, to whom we pay, in the aggregate, an annual facility fee of approximately
$1,250,000. The unsecured credit facility bears interest at varying levels based on the London
Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), our credit rating and on a maturity schedule selected by us. The
current stated pricing is LIBOR plus 0.40% per annum (3.54% on January 31, 2008). The spread over
LIBOR can vary from LIBOR plus 0.325% to LIBOR plus 1.00% based on our credit rating. In addition,
a competitive bid option is available for borrowings of up to $422,500,000. This option allows
banks that are part of the lender consortium to bid to provide us loans at a rate that is lower
than the stated pricing provided by the unsecured credit facility. The competitive bid option may
result in lower pricing if market conditions allow. We had no outstanding balance under this
competitive bid option at January 31, 2008. We are subject to and currently in compliance with
certain customary covenants under the unsecured credit facility, including, but not limited to,
maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios, a minimum fixed charges coverage ratio and minimum
unencumbered assets and equity levels. The credit facility matures in November 2011, assuming our
exercise of a one-year renewal option. At January 31, 2008, $733,500,000 was outstanding on the
credit facility, $57,000,000 was used to provide letters of credit and $209,361,000 was available
for borrowing under the unsecured credit facility.


Future Financing and Capital Needs – Debt Maturities

One of our principal long-term liquidity needs is the repayment of long-term debt at the time that
such debt matures. For unsecured notes, we anticipate that no significant portion of the principal
of these notes will be repaid prior to maturity. If we do not have funds on hand sufficient to
repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, it will be necessary for us to refinance the debt. This
refinancing may be accomplished by uncollateralized private or public debt offerings, additional
debt financing that is collateralized by mortgages on individual communities or groups of
communities, draws on our unsecured credit facility or by equity offerings. Although we
believe we will have the capacity to meet our long-term liquidity needs, we cannot assure you that
additional debt financing or debt or equity offerings will be available or, if available, that they
will be on terms we consider satisfactory.

The following financing activity occurred during the year ended December 31, 2007:

•

we issued $16,926,000 of variable rate mortgage debt for an operating community in June,
maturing in May 2012;

•

we repaid $15,980,000 of mortgage debt, secured by the assets of an operating community
in July;

•

we assumed $3,941,000 of fixed rate mortgage debt in conjunction with the acquisition of
an operating community in July 2007 and subsequently defeased the note in December 2007;

•

we issued $100,000,000 of variable rate, tax-exempt debt for a development community in
June, maturing in November 2040;

•

we repaid $150,000,000 in previously issued unsecured notes in August 2007, along with
any unpaid interest, pursuant to their scheduled maturity;

•

we issued $42,200,000 of fixed rate, tax-exempt mortgage debt for an operating community
in September 2007, maturing in June 2047;

•

we were relieved of our obligations associated with $8,116,000 in mortgage debt in
conjunction with the disposition of the associated operating community in September 2007;

•

we repaid $110,000,000 in previously issued unsecured notes in December 2007, along with
any unpaid interest, pursuant to their scheduled maturity;

•

we borrowed $514,500,000 under our unsecured credit facility;

•

we increased our borrowing capacity under our unsecured credit facility by $350,000,000,
to $1,000,000,000;

•

we issued 4,600,000 shares of common stock at $129.30 per share for net proceeds of
approximately $594,000,000 in conjunction with the inclusion of our common stock in the S&P
500 index in January 2007; and

•

we repurchased 2,480,616 shares of our common stock at an average price of $103.95 per
share, for a total approximate purchase price of $257,854,000.

In February 2008, the Board of Directors authorized a further increase of $200,000,000 in the
common stock repurchase program, increasing the total amount the Company can acquire to
$500,000,000, of which approximately $300,000,000 has been used to repurchase our common stock as
of January 31, 2008. The decision to use the additional share
repurchase authorization will depend on current capital market
conditions and liquidity, our share price relative to the net asset
value per share and other uses of capital, including development.


The table below details debt maturities for the next five years, excluding our unsecured credit
facility, and amounts outstanding related to communities classified as held for sale, for debt
outstanding at December 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands, except footnotes).

All-In

Principal

interest

maturity

Balance outstanding

Scheduled maturities

Community

rate (1)

date

12-31-06

12-31-07






Thereafter

Tax-exempt bonds

Fixed rate

CountryBrook

6.30

%

Mar-2012

$

15,990

$

15,356

$


$


$


$


$

12,379

$

—

Avalon at Symphony Glen

4.90

%

Jul-2024

9,780

9,780

—

—

—

—

—

9,780

Avalon at Lexington

6.55

%

Feb-2025

12,467

12,078






9,739

Avalon at Nob Hill

5.80

%

Jun-2025

18,116

—

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

—

Avalon Campbell

6.48

%

Jun-2025

32,776

31,877

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

31,877

Avalon Pacifica

6.48

%

Jun-2025

14,867

14,460

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

14,460

Avalon Knoll

6.95

%

Jun-2026

11,957

11,654






9,788

Avalon Landing

6.85

%

Jun-2026

5,903

5,751






4,821

Avalon Fields

7.55

%

May-2027

10,483

10,224






8,743

Avalon Oaks

7.45

%

Jul-2041

17,205

17,077






16,288

Avalon Oaks West

7.48

%

Apr-2043

17,036

16,919






16,205

Avalon at Chestnut Hill

5.82

%

Oct-2047

—

42,149






40,399

166,580

187,325

2,407

2,564

2,731

2,911

14,612

162,100

Variable rate

(3)

The Promenade

4.88

%

Oct-2010

31,495

30,844



29,388

—

—

—

Waterford

3.50

%

Jul-2014

33,100

33,100

(4)

—

—

—

—

—

33,100

Avalon at Mountain View

3.50

%

Feb-2017

18,300

18,300

(4)

—

—

—

—

—

18,300

Avalon at Foxchase I

3.50

%

Nov-2017

16,800

16,800

(4)

—

—

—

—

—

16,800

Avalon at Foxchase II

3.50

%

Nov-2017

9,600

9,600

(4)

—

—

—

—

—

9,600

Avalon at Mission Viejo

3.98

%

Jun-2025

7,635

7,635

(4)

—

—

—

—

—

7,635

Avalon at Nob Hill

3.46

%

Jun-2025

2,684

20,800

(4)

—

—

—

—

—

20,800

Avalon Campbell

3.46

%

Jun-2025

6,024

6,923

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

6,923

Avalon Pacifica

3.46

%

Jun-2025

2,733

3,140

(2)

—

—

—

—

—

3,140

Avalon at Fairway Hills I

4.33

%

Jun-2026

11,500

11,500

—

—

—

—

—

11,500

Bowery Place I

3.31

%

Nov-2037

93,800

93,800

(5)






90,587

Bowery Place II

3.34

%

Nov-2039

48,500

48,500

(5)

—

—




47,603

Avalon Acton

4.14

%

Jul-2040

45,000

45,000

(5)

—

—

—

—

—

45,000

Morningside Park

6.63

%

Nov-2040

—

100,000

—

—




99,220

327,171

445,942

1,222

1,331

30,432

1,303

1,446

410,208

Conventional loans (6)

Fixed rate

$150 million unsecured notes

5.18

%

Aug-2007

$

150,000

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$110 million unsecured notes

7.13

%

Dec-2007

110,000

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

$50 million unsecured notes

6.63

%

Jan-2008

50,000

50,000

(7)

50,000

—

—

—

—

—

$150 million unsecured notes

8.38

%

Jul-2008

146,000

146,000

146,000

—

—

—

—

—

$150 million unsecured notes

7.63

%

Aug-2009

150,000

150,000

—

150,000

—

—

—

—

$200 million unsecured notes

7.66

%

Dec-2010

200,000

200,000

—

—

200,000

—

—

—

$300 million unsecured notes

6.79

%

Sep-2011

300,000

300,000

—

—

—

300,000

—

—

$50 million unsecured notes

6.31

%

Sep-2011

50,000

50,000

—

—

—

50,000

—

—

$250 million unsecured notes

5.73

%

Jan-2012

250,000

250,000

—

—

—

—

250,000

—

$250 million unsecured notes

6.26

%

Nov-2012

250,000

250,000

—

—

—

—

250,000

—

$100 million unsecured notes

5.11

%

Mar-2013

100,000

100,000

—

—

—

—

—

100,000

$150 million unsecured notes

5.52

%

Apr-2014

150,000

150,000

—

—

—

—

—

150,000

$250 million unsecured notes

5.89

%

Sep-2016

250,000

250,000

—

—

—

—

—

250,000

Wheaton Development Right

6.99

%

Oct-2008

4,514

4,432

4,432

—

—

—

—

—

4600 Eisenhower Avenue

8.08

%

Apr-2009

4,402

4,293


4,175

—

—

—

—

Twinbrook Development Right

7.25

%

Oct-2011

8,200

8,007




7,339

—

—

Tysons West Development Right

5.55

%

Jul-2028

6,535

6,381






5,466

Avalon Orchards

7.65

%

Jul-2033

19,883

19,612






17,939

2,199,534

1,938,725

201,209

154,881

200,755

357,889

500,586

523,405

Variable rate

(3)

Avalon Ledges

5.68

%

May-2009

18,635

17,990


17,302

—

—

—

—

Avalon at Flanders Hill

5.68

%

May-2009

21,245

20,510


19,726

—

—

—

—

Avalon at Newton Highlands

5.62

%

Dec-2009

37,650

36,335

1,397

34,938

—

—

—

—

Avalon at Crane Brook

5.59

%

Mar-2011

33,535

32,560

1,045

1,106

1,169

29,240

—

—

Avalon at Bedford Center

5.62

%

May-2012

—

16,816

(4)





14,764

—

111,065

124,211

4,382

73,569

1,696

29,800

14,764

—

Total indebtedness — excluding unsecured credit facility

$

2,804,350

$

2,696,203

$

209,220

$

232,345

$

235,614

$

391,903

$

531,408

$

1,095,713

(1)

Includes credit enhancement fees, facility fees, trustees’ fees and other fees.

(2)

Financed by variable rate, tax-exempt debt, but the interest rate on a portion of this debt
is effectively fixed at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 through a swap agreement. The
portion of the debt fixed through a swap agreement decreases (and therefore the variable
portion of the debt increases) monthly as payments are made to a principal reserve fund.

(3)

Variable rates are given as of December 31, 2007.

(4)

Financed by variable rate debt, but interest rate is capped through an interest rate
protection agreement.


(5)

Represents full amount of the debt as of December 31, 2007. Actual amounts drawn on the debt
as of December 31, 2007 are $87,519,000 for Bowery Place I, $34,323,000 for Bowery Place II,
$12,156,000 for Avalon Acton and $0 for Morningside Park.

(6)

Balances outstanding represent total amounts due at maturity, and are not net of $2,501 of
debt discount as of December 31, 2007 and $2,922 of debt discount as of December 31, 2006, as
reflected in unsecured notes on our Consolidated Balance Sheets included elsewhere in this
report.

(7)

These notes were repaid at their scheduled maturity in
January 2008.

Future Financing and Capital Needs – Portfolio and Other Activity

As of December 31, 2007, we had 21 new communities under construction, for which a total estimated
cost of $943,679,000 remained to be invested. In addition, we had eight communities which we own,
or in which we have a direct or indirect interest, under reconstruction, for which a total
estimated cost of $53,836,000 remained to be invested. Substantially all of the capital
expenditures necessary to complete the communities currently under construction and reconstruction,
as well as development costs related to pursuing Development Rights, will be funded from:

•

cash currently on hand invested in highly liquid overnight money market funds and
repurchase agreements, and short-term investment vehicles;

•

the remaining capacity under our current $1,000,000,000 unsecured credit facility;

•

the net proceeds from sales of existing communities;

•

retained operating cash;

•

the issuance of debt or equity securities; and/or

•

private equity funding.

Before planned reconstruction activity, including reconstruction activity related to communities
acquired by the Fund as discussed below, or the construction of a Development Right begins, we
intend to arrange adequate financing to
complete these undertakings, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such
financing. In the event that financing cannot be obtained, we may have to abandon Development
Rights, write-off associated pre-development costs that were capitalized and/or forego
reconstruction activity. In such instances, we will not realize the increased revenues and
earnings that we expected from such Development Rights or reconstruction activity and significant
losses could be incurred.

We have invested in the Fund, a private, discretionary investment vehicle that acquires and
operates apartment communities in our markets. The Fund has invested $777,568,000 as of December
31, 2007. Management of the Fund expects to invest approximately $46,000,000 of additional funds to
redevelop the assets acquired, at which time the Fund will become fully invested. The Fund has
nine institutional investors, including us, with a combined capital equity commitment of
$330,000,000. A significant portion of the investments made in the Fund by its investors have been
made through AvalonBay Value Added Fund, Inc., a Maryland corporation that qualifies as a REIT
under the Internal Revenue Code (the “Fund REIT”). A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is the
general partner of the Fund and has committed $50,000,000 to the Fund and the Fund REIT (of which
approximately $32,035,000 has been invested as of January 31, 2008) representing a 15.2% combined
general partner and limited partner equity interest. As of January 31, 2008, the Fund has
committed to invest approximately $818,367,000. We are exploring various potential sources for
funding future acquisitions after the Fund is fully invested.

From time to time we use joint ventures to hold or develop individual real estate assets. We
generally employ joint ventures primarily to mitigate asset concentration or market risk or
secondarily as a source of liquidity. We may also use joint ventures related to mixed-use land
development opportunities where our partners bring development and operational expertise to the
venture. Each joint venture or partnership agreement has been and will continue to be individually
negotiated, and our ability to operate and/or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be
limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the joint venture or partnership agreement.
We cannot assure you that we will achieve our objectives through joint ventures.

In evaluating our allocation of capital within our markets, we sell assets that do not meet our
long-term investment criteria or when capital and real estate markets allow us to realize a portion
of the value created over the past business cycle and redeploy the proceeds from those sales to
develop and redevelop communities. In response to real estate and capital markets conditions, we
sold four communities and one partnership interest in an unconsolidated entitiy for an aggregate
sales price of $268,096,000 from January 1, 2007 through January 31, 2008. Because the proceeds
from the sale of communities may not be immediately redeployed into revenue generating assets, the
immediate effect of a sale of a community for a gain is to increase net income, but reduce future
total revenues, total expenses and NOI. However, we believe that the absence of future cash flows
from communities sold will have a minimal impact on our ability to fund future liquidity and
capital resource needs. During 2008, we intend to dispose of between $700,000,000 and
$1,000,000,000 in assets. However, actual disposition volume will depend on market conditions and
other variables, which are subject to change in 2008.


Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

In addition to the investment interests in consolidated and unconsolidated real estate entities, we
have certain off-balance sheet arrangements with the entities in which we invest. Additional
discussion of these entities can be found in Note 6, “Investments in Real Estate Entities,” and
Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements located elsewhere
in this report.

•

CVP I, LLC has outstanding tax-exempt, variable rate bonds maturing in November 2036 in
the amount of $117,000,000, which have permanent credit enhancement. We have agreed to
guarantee, under limited circumstances, the repayment to the credit enhancer of any
advances it may make in fulfillment of CVP I, LLC’s repayment obligations under the bonds

.

We have also guaranteed to the credit enhancer that CVP I, LLC will obtain a final
certificate of occupancy for the project (Chrystie Place in New York City) overall once
tenant improvements related to a retail tenant are complete, which is expected in the first
half of 2008. Our 80% partner in this venture has agreed that it will reimburse us its pro
rata share of any amounts paid relative to these guaranteed obligations. The estimated
fair value of, and our obligation under these
guarantees, both at inception and as of December 31, 2007 were not significant. As a result
we have not recorded any obligation associated with these guarantees at December 31, 2007.

•

MVP I, LLC executed a construction loan in the amount of $94,000,000 to finance the
development of Avalon at Mission Bay North II. In conjunction with the construction
management services that the Company provided to MVP I, LLC, the Company provided a
construction completion guarantee to the construction loan lender in order to fulfill their
standard financing requirements related to construction financing. In the fourth quarter
of 2007, all of the lender’s standard completion requirements were satisfied and the
obligation of the Company under this guarantee terminated. In December 2007, MVP I, LLC
repaid the construction loan, concurrently executing a seven-year, fixed rate conventional
loan.

•

The Fund has 20 loans secured by individual assets with amounts outstanding in the
aggregate of $447,166,000. These mortgage loans have varying maturity dates (or dates
after which the loans can be prepaid), ranging from October 2011 to September 2016. These
mortgage loans are secured by the underlying real estate. In addition, the Fund had
amounts outstanding of $47,400,000 as of December 31, 2007 under its credit facilities, all
of which is under an unsecured facility maturing in December 2008. The Fund did not have
any amounts outstanding at December 31, 2007 under the Fund’s credit facility secured by
uncalled capital commitments that matured in January 2008. The mortgage loans and the
credit facility are payable by the Fund with operating cash flow from the underlying real
estate, and the credit facility is secured by capital commitments. We have not guaranteed
the debt of the Fund, nor do we have any obligation to fund this debt should the Fund be
unable to do so.

In addition, as part of the formation of the Fund, we have provided to one of the limited
partners a guarantee. The guarantee provides that if, upon final liquidation of the Fund,
the total amount of all distributions to that partner during the life of the Fund (whether
from operating cash flow or property sales) does not equal a minimum of the total capital
contributions made by that partner, then we will pay the partner an amount equal to the
shortfall, but in no event more than 10% of the total capital contributions made by the
partner (maximum of approximately $6,510,000 as of December 31, 2007). As of December 31,
2007, the fair value of the real estate assets owned by the Fund is considered adequate to
cover such potential payment to that partner under a liquidation scenario. The estimated
fair value of, and our obligation under this guarantee, both at inception and as of December
31, 2007 was not significant and therefore we have not recorded any obligation for this
guarantee as of December 31, 2007.


•

In connection with the pursuit of a Development Right in Pleasant Hill, California,
$125,000,000 in bond financing was issued by the Contra Costa County Redevelopment Agency
(the “Agency”) in connection with the possible future construction of a multifamily rental
community by PHVP I, LLC. The bond proceeds were immediately invested in their entirety in
a guaranteed investment contract (“GIC”) administered by a trustee. This Development Right
is planned as a mixed-use development, with residential, for-sale, retail and office
components. The bond proceeds will remain in the GIC until August 2008

,

at which time
a loan will be made to PHVP I, LLC to fund construction of the multifamily portion of the
development, or the bonds will be redeemed by the Agency. We are currently in discussions
to extend both the term until the bond financing proceeds must be used for development of
the multifamily portion of the project, and the GIC until August 2008, when construction of
the multifamily portion of the development is now expected to begin. Although we do not
have any equity or economic interest in PHVP I, LLC at this time, we do have an option to
make a capital contribution to PHVP I, LLC in exchange for a 99% general partner interest
in the entity. Should we decide not to exercise this option, bond proceeds will be
released from escrow, the bonds will be redeemed without penalty and a loan will not be
made to PHVP I, LLC. The bonds are payable from the proceeds of the GIC and are
non-recourse to both PHVP I, LLC and to us. There is no loan payable outstanding by PHVP
I, LLC as of December 31, 2007.

In addition, as part of providing construction management services to PHVP I, LLC for the
construction of a public garage, we have provided a construction completion guarantee to the
related lender in order to fulfill their standard financing requirements related to the
garage construction financing. Our obligations under this guarantee will terminate
following construction completion of the garage once all of the lender’s
standard completion requirements have been satisfied, which we currently expect to occur in
the first half of 2008. In the third quarter of 2006, significant modifications were
requested by the local transit authority to change the garage structure design. We do not
believe that the requested design changes impact the construction schedule. However, it is
expected that these changes will increase the original budget by an amount up to $5,000,000.
We believe that substantially all potential additional amounts are reimbursable from
unrelated third parties. At this time we do not believe that it is probable that we will
incur any additional costs. The estimated fair value of, and our obligation under this
guarantee, both at inception and as of December 31, 2007 was not significant and therefore
we have not recorded any obligation for this guarantee as of December 31, 2007.

•

In the fourth quarter of 2006, we admitted a 70% venture partner to the Avalon Del Rey
Apartments, LLC for an investment of $49,000,000, including the assumption of debt. In
conjunction with this investment, we provided an operating guarantee to the joint venture
partner which stated that if the initial year return earned by the joint venture partner
was less than a threshold return of 7% on its initial equity investment, we would pay the
joint venture partner an amount equal to the shortfall, up to the 7% threshold return
required. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the initial year return earned by the joint
venture partner was determined to be in excess of the guarantee threshold thereby
satisfying all provisions of the Company under this guarantee.

There are no other lines of credit, side agreements, financial guarantees or any other derivative
financial instruments related to or between our unconsolidated real estate entities and us. In
evaluating our capital structure and overall leverage, management takes into consideration our
proportionate share of this unconsolidated debt.

Contractual Obligations

We currently have contractual obligations consisting primarily of long-term debt obligations and
lease obligations for certain land parcels and regional and administrative office space. During
the second quarter of 2007, we entered into an operating lease for 20,000 square feet of office
space in Virginia Beach, Virginia. We began to utilize this space for certain of our
community-related accounting and customer service functions in the third quarter of 2007. There
have not been any other material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual
obligations during 2007. Scheduled contractual obligations required for the next five years and
thereafter are as follows as of December 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands):


Payments due by period

Less than

More than 5

Total

1 Year

1-3 Years

3-5 Years

Years

Debt Obligations (1)

$

3,210,703

$

723,720

$

467,959

$

923,311

$

1,095,713

Operating Lease
Obligations (2)

2,142,739

14,412

29,108

29,268

2,069,951

Total

$

5,353,442

$

738,132

$

497,067

$

952,579

$

3,165,664

(1)

Includes $514,500 outstanding under our variable rate unsecured credit facility as of
December 31, 2007. The table of contractual obligations assumes repayment of this amount in
2008 — See “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Amounts exclude interest payable as of December
31, 2007.

(2)

Includes land leases expiring between November 2028 and March 2142. Amounts do not include
any adjustment for purchase options available under the land leases.

Inflation and Deflation

Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. In an inflationary
environment, this may allow us to realize increased rents upon renewal of existing leases or the
beginning of new leases. Short-term leases generally minimize our risk from the adverse effects of
inflation, although these leases generally permit residents to leave at the end of the lease term
and therefore expose us to the effect of a decline in market rents. In a deflationary rent
environment, we may be exposed to declining rents more quickly under these shorter-term leases.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by our use
of the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “assume,” “project,” “plan,”
“may,” “shall,” “will” and other similar expressions in this Form 10-K, that predict or indicate
future events and trends and that do not report historical matters. These statements include,
among other things, statements regarding our intent, belief or expectations with respect to:

•

our potential development, redevelopment, acquisition or disposition of communities;

•

the timing and cost of completion of apartment communities under construction,
reconstruction, development or redevelopment;

•

the timing of lease-up, occupancy and stabilization of apartment communities;

•

the pursuit of land on which we are considering future development;

•

the anticipated operating performance of our communities;

•

cost, yield and earnings estimates;

•

our declaration or payment of distributions;

•

our joint venture and discretionary fund activities;

•

our policies regarding investments, indebtedness, acquisitions, dispositions,
financings and other matters;

•

our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code;

•

the real estate markets in Northern and Southern California and markets in
selected states in the Mid-Atlantic, Northeast, Midwest and Pacific Northwest
regions of the United States and in general;

•

the availability of debt and equity financing;

•

interest rates;

•

general economic conditions; and

•

trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations.


We cannot assure the future results or outcome of the matters described in these statements;
rather, these statements merely reflect our current expectations of the approximate outcomes of the
matters discussed. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they involve known and
unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. These risks,
uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ
materially from the anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by
these forward-looking statements. You should carefully review the discussion under Item 1a, “Risk
Factors,” elsewhere in this report for a discussion of risks associated with forward-looking
statements.

In addition, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of
the date of this report. We do not undertake a duty to update these forward-looking statements,
and therefore they may not represent our estimates and assumptions after the date of this report.

Some of the factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ
materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include, but are not
limited to, the following:

•

we may fail to secure development opportunities due to an inability to reach
agreements with third parties to obtain land at attractive prices or to obtain
desired zoning and other local approvals;

•

we may abandon or defer development opportunities for a number of reasons,
including changes in local market conditions which make development less desirable,
increases in costs of development and increases in the cost of capital, resulting
in losses;

•

construction costs of a community may exceed our original estimates;

•

we may not complete construction and lease-up of communities under development
or redevelopment on schedule, resulting in increased interest costs and
construction costs and a decrease in our expected rental revenues;

•

occupancy rates and market rents may be adversely affected by competition and
local economic and market conditions which are beyond our control;

•

financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all, and our cash flows
from operations and access to cost effective capital may be insufficient for the
development of our pipeline which could limit our pursuit of opportunities;

•

our cash flows may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and
interest, and we may be unable to refinance existing indebtedness or the terms of
such refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness;

•

we may be unsuccessful in our management of the Fund and the Fund REIT; and

•

we may be unsuccessful in managing changes in our portfolio composition.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to use judgment
in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. If our
judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been
different, or different assumptions were made, it is possible that different accounting policies
would have been applied, resulting in different financial results or a different presentation of
our financial statements. Below is a discussion of the accounting policies that we consider
critical to an understanding of our financial condition and operating results that may require
complex or significant judgment in their application or require estimates about matters which are
inherently uncertain. A discussion of our significant accounting policies, including further
discussion of the accounting policies described below, can be found in Note 1, “Organization and
Significant Accounting Policies” of our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Principles of Consolidation

We may enter into various joint venture agreements with unrelated third parties to hold or develop
real estate assets. We must determine for each of these ventures, whether to consolidate the
entity or account for our investment under the equity or cost basis of accounting.


We determine whether to consolidate certain entities based on our rights and obligations under the
joint venture agreements, applying the guidance of FIN 46(R), “Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities

”

(as revised) and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 04-5, “Determining Whether a
General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar
Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights.” For investment interests that we do not
consolidate, we look to the guidance in AICPA Statement of Position 78-9, “Accounting for
Investments in Real Estate Ventures”

,

Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, “The Equity
Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock”, and Emerging Issues Task Force Topic D-46,
“Accounting for Limited Partnership Investments”

,

to determine the accounting framework to apply.
The application of these rules in evaluating the accounting treatment for each joint venture is
complex and requires substantial management judgment. Therefore, we believe the decision to choose
an appropriate accounting framework is a critical accounting estimate.

If we were to consolidate the joint ventures that we accounted for using the equity method at
December 31, 2007, our assets would have increased by $1,029,093,000 and our liabilities would have
increased by $739,806,000. We would be required to consolidate those joint ventures currently not
consolidated for financial reporting purposes if the facts and circumstances changed, including but
not limited to the following reasons, none of which are currently expected to occur:

•

For entities not considered to be variable interest entities under FIN 46(R), the nature
of the entity changed such that it would be considered a variable interest entity.

•

For entities in which we do not hold a controlling voting and/or variable interest, the
contractual arrangement changes resulting in our investment interest being either a
controlling voting and/or variable interest.

We evaluate our accounting for investments on a quarterly basis or when a significant change in the
design of an entity occurs.

Cost Capitalization

We capitalize costs during the development of assets beginning when we determine that development
of a future asset is probable until the asset, or a portion of the asset, is delivered and is ready
for its intended use. For redevelopment efforts, we capitalize costs beginning either (i) in
advance of taking homes out of service when significant renovation of the common area has begun
until the redevelopment is completed, or (ii) when an apartment home is taken out of service for
redevelopment until the redevelopment is completed and the apartment home is available for a new
resident. Rental income and operating expenses incurred during the initial lease-up or
post-redevelopment lease-up period are fully recognized as they accrue.

During the development and redevelopment efforts we capitalize all direct and those indirect costs
which have been incurred as a result of the development and redevelopment activities. These costs
include interest and related loan fees, property taxes as well as other direct and indirect costs.
Interest is capitalized for any project specific financing, as well as for general corporate
financing to the extent of our aggregate investment in the projects. Indirect project costs,
which include personnel and office and administrative costs, that are clearly associated with our
development and redevelopment efforts are also capitalized. The estimation of the direct and
indirect costs to capitalize as part of our development and redevelopment activities requires
judgment, and as such, we believe cost capitalization to be a critical accounting estimate.

There may be a change in our operating expenses in the event that there are changes in accounting
guidance governing capitalization or changes to development or redevelopment activity. If changes
in the accounting guidance limit our ability to capitalize costs or if we reduce our development
and redevelopment activities without a corresponding decrease in indirect project costs, there may
be an increase in our operating expenses. For example, if in 2007 our development activities
decreased by 10%, and there were no corresponding decrease in our indirect project costs, our
operating expenses would have increased by $2,748,000.


We capitalize pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of Development Rights for which we
currently believe future development is probable. These costs include legal fees, design fees and
related overhead costs. Future
development of these pursuits is dependent upon various factors, including zoning and regulatory
approval, rental market conditions, construction costs and availability of capital.
Pre-development costs incurred in the pursuit of Development Rights for which future development is
not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development
Right changes, making future development no longer probable, any capitalized pre-development costs
are written-off with a charge to expense.

Due to the subjectivity in determining whether a pursuit will result in the acquisition or
development of an apartment community, and therefore should be capitalized, the accounting for
pursuit costs is a critical accounting estimate. If it were determined that 10% of our capitalized
pursuits were no longer probable of occurring, net income for the year ended December 31, 2007
would have decreased by $6,100,000.

Asset Impairment Evaluation

We apply the provisions of SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets”

,

to determine the need for performing impairment analyses, as well as to measure the loss
if an impairment has occurred on a regular basis, considering qualitative economic factors.
Because each asset is unique, requiring significant management judgment, we believe that the asset
impairment evaluation is a critical accounting estimate.

Management judgment is required both to determine if a significant event has occurred, such that an
impairment analysis is necessary, as well as for the assessment and measurement of any potential
impairment. To perform the impairment analysis, we must estimate the undiscounted future cash
flows associated with the asset, which in the case of an apartment community would be the NOI, as
well as potential disposition proceeds for a given asset. Forecasting cash flows requires
assumptions about such variables as the estimated holding period, rental rates, occupancy and
operating expenses during the holding period as well as disposition proceeds. In addition, when an
impairment has occurred, we must estimate the discount factor, or market capitalization rate to
apply to the undiscounted cash flows to derive the fair value of the position. The market
capitalization rate is influenced by many factors, including national and local economic
conditions, as well as the location and quality of the asset.

Changes in the future cash flows associated with an asset have a direct, linear relationship to the
fair value of the position. For example, if there is a 10% decline in the estimated NOI for a
community, there would be a corresponding decrease in the fair value of that asset of 10%. Changes
in the market capitalization rate have an inverse relationship with the fair value of an asset,
with a decrease in the market capitalization rate resulting in an increase in the fair value of the
asset. For example, an asset that is valued at $80,000,000 when using a five percent market
capitalization rate will increase in value to $100,000,000 if the market capitalization rate
decreases by one percent to four percent, and to $133,000,000 if the market capitalization rate
decreases by two percent, to a three percent market capitalization rate.

For the year ended December 31, 2007, we did not recognize any impairment in value associated with
our investments or long-lived assets. We cannot predict the occurrence of future events that may
cause an impairment assessment to be performed.

REIT Status

We are a Maryland corporation that has elected to be treated, for federal income tax purposes, as a
REIT. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (“the Code”), as
amended, for the year ended December 31, 1994 and have not revoked such election. A corporate REIT
is a legal entity which holds real estate interests and must meet a number of organizational and
operational requirements, including a requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its
adjusted taxable income to stockholders. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to corporate
level federal income tax on taxable income if we distribute 100% of taxable income to our
stockholders over time periods allowed under the Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any
taxable year, we will be subject to federal and state income taxes at regular corporate rates
(subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to elect to qualify as a
REIT for four subsequent taxable years. For example, if we failed to qualify as a REIT in 2007,
our net income would have decreased by approximately $119,800,000.


Our qualification as a REIT requires management to exercise significant judgment and consideration
with respect to operational matters and accounting treatment. Therefore, we believe our REIT
status is a critical accounting estimate.

ITEM 7a. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We are exposed to certain financial market risks, the most predominant being interest rate risk.
We monitor interest rate risk as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which
recognizes the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse
effect on our results of operations. The effect of interest rate fluctuations historically has
been small relative to other factors affecting operating results, such as rental rates and
occupancy. The specific market risks and the potential impact on our operating results are
described below.

Our operating results are affected by changes in interest rates as a result of borrowings under our
variable rate unsecured credit facility as well as outstanding bonds with variable interest rates,
primarily associated with short-term interest rates such as LIBOR. We had $1,084,653,000 and
$426,795,000 in variable rate debt outstanding (excluding variable rate debt effectively fixed
through swap agreements) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. If interest rates on the
variable rate debt had been 100 basis points higher throughout 2007 and 2006, our annual interest
costs would have increased by approximately $6,417,000 and $3,027,000, respectively, based on
balances outstanding during the applicable years.

We currently use interest rate protection agreements (consisting of interest rate swap and interest
rate cap agreements) to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations on certain variable rate
indebtedness, not for trading or speculative purposes. Under swap agreements:

•

we agree to pay to a counterparty the interest that would have been incurred on a
fixed principal amount at a fixed interest rate (generally, the interest rate on a
particular treasury bond on the date the agreement is entered into, plus a fixed
increment); and

•

the counterparty agrees to pay to us the interest that would have been incurred on
the same principal amount at an assumed floating interest rate tied to a particular
market index.

As of December 31, 2007, the effect of interest rate swap agreements is to fix the interest rate on
approximately $46,340,000 of our variable rate, tax-exempt debt. The interest rate protection
provided by certain swap agreements on the consolidated variable rate, tax-exempt debt was not
electively entered into by us but, rather, was a requirement of either the bond issuer or the
credit enhancement provider related to certain tax-exempt bond financings. Had these swap
agreements not been in place during 2007 and 2006, our annual interest costs would have been
approximately $931,000 and $1,182,000 lower, respectively, based on balances outstanding and
reported interest rates during the applicable years. Additionally, if the variable interest rates
on this debt had been 100 basis points higher throughout 2007 and 2006 and these swap agreements
had not been in place, our annual interest costs would have been approximately $248,000 lower in
2007 and $37,000 higher in 2006.


Because the counterparties providing the swap agreements are major financial institutions which
have an A+ or better credit rating by the Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group and the interest rates
fixed by the swap agreements are significantly higher than current market rates for such
agreements, we do not believe there is exposure at this time to a default by a counterparty
provider.

In addition, changes in interest rates affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt, computed using
a discounted cash flow model considering our current market yields, which impacts the fair value of
our aggregate indebtedness. Debt securities and notes payable (excluding amounts outstanding under
our variable rate unsecured credit facility) with an aggregate carrying value of $2,696,203,000 at
December 31, 2007 had an estimated aggregate fair value of $2,756,890,000 at December 31, 2007.
Fixed rate debt (excluding our variable rate debt effectively fixed through swap agreements)
represented $2,079,713,000 of the carrying value and $2,140,400,000 of the fair value at December
31, 2007. If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher as of December 31, 2007, the fair
value of this fixed rate debt would have decreased by $84,459,000.

We do not have any exposure to foreign currency or equity price risk, and our exposure to commodity
price risk is insignificant.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9a.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a)

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

. As required by Rule 13a-15 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the
Company carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the
Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls
and procedures. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or
submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. We continue to
review and document our disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal control
over financial reporting, and may from time to time make changes aimed at enhancing their
effectiveness and to ensure that our systems evolve with our business.

(b)

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

. Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 based on the framework in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that our
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007.

Our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 has been audited by Ernst
& Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which
is included elsewhere herein.

(c)

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

. There was no change in our internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of the period covered
by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9b.

OTHER INFORMATION

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Information pertaining to directors and executive officers of the Company and the Company’s Code of
Conduct are incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year covered by this Form
10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 21, 2008.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information pertaining to executive compensation is incorporated herein by reference to the
Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after the end of the year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 21, 2008.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

Information pertaining to security ownership of management and certain beneficial owners of the
Company’s common stock is incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year covered
by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 21, 2008.

The Company maintains the 1994 Stock Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”) and the 1996 Non-Qualified
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”), pursuant to which common stock or other equity awards
may be issued or granted to eligible persons.

The following table gives information about equity awards under the Company’s 1994 Plan and ESPP as
of December 31, 2007:

(a)

(b)

(c)

Number of securities

remaining available for

future issuance under

Number of securities to be

Weighted-average

equity compensation

issued upon exercise of

exercise price of

plans (excluding

outstanding options,

outstanding options,

securities reflected in

Plan category

warrants and rights

warrants and rights

column (a))

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security holders

(1)

2,445,321

(2) (3)

$

83.15

(3) (4)

2,160,738

(5)

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders

(6)

—

n/a

780,735

Total

2,445,321

$

83.15

(3) (4)

2,941,473

(1)

Consists of the 1994 Plan.

(2)

Includes 123,606 deferred units granted under the 1994 Plan, which, subject to vesting
requirements, will convert in the future to common stock on a one-for-one basis, but does not
include 241,066 shares of restricted stock that are outstanding and that are already reflected
in the Company’s outstanding shares.

(3)

Does not include outstanding options to acquire 768 shares, at a weighted-average exercise
price of $36.61 per share, that were assumed, in connection with the 1998 merger of Avalon
Properties, Inc. with and into the Company, under the Avalon Properties, Inc. 1995 Equity
Incentive Plan and the Avalon Properties, Inc. 1993 Stock Option and Incentive Plan.


(4)

Excludes deferred units granted under the 1994 Plan, which, subject to vesting requirements,
will convert in the future to common stock on a one-for-one basis.

(5)

The 1994 Plan incorporates an evergreen formula pursuant to which the aggregate number of
shares reserved for issuance under the 1994 Plan will increase annually. On each January 1,
the aggregate number of shares reserved for issuance under the 1994 Plan will increase by a
number of shares equal to a percentage (ranging from 0.48% to 1.00%) of all outstanding shares
of common stock and operating partnership units at the end of the year. The exact percentage
used is determined based on the percentage of all awards made under the 1994 Plan during the
calendar year that were in the form of stock options with an exercise price equal to the fair
market value of a share of common stock on the date of the grant. In accordance with this
procedure, on January 1, 2008, the maximum number of shares remaining available for future
issuance under the 1994 Plan was increased by 727,397 to 2,888,135.

(6)

Consists of the ESPP.

The ESPP, which was adopted by the Board of Directors on October 29, 1996, has not been approved by
our shareholders. A further description of the ESPP appears in Note 10, “Stock-Based Compensation
Plans,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

Information pertaining to certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated herein by
reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within 120 days after the end of the year covered by this Form 10-K with respect to the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 21, 2008.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Information pertaining to the fees paid to and services provided by the Company’s principal
accountant is incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s Proxy Statement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the year covered by this
Form 10-K with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 21, 2008.


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

15(a)(1)

Financial Statements

Index to Financial Statements

Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule:

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-1

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income for
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-9

15(a)(2)

Financial Statement Schedule

Schedule III — Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

F-36

15(a)(3)

Exhibits

The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as a part of this report.


INDEX TO EXHIBITS

3(i).1

—

Articles of Amendment and Restatement of Articles of Incorporation of the Company,
dated as of June 4, 1998. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i).1 to Form 10-K of
the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

3(i).2

—

Articles of Amendment, dated as of October 2, 1998. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3(i).2 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

3(i).3

—

Articles Supplementary, dated as of October 13, 1998, relating to the 8.70% Series
H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i).3
to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

3(ii).1

—

Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, as adopted by the Board of Directors
on February 13, 2003. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to Form 10-K of the
Company filed March 11, 2003.)

4.1

—

Second Supplemental Indenture of Avalon Properties dated as of December 16,
1997. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Form 10-K of the Company filed
March 11, 2003.)

4.2

—

Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of January 16, 1998, between
the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 of the Company (File No.
333-139839), filed January 8, 2007.)

4.3

—

First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 20, 1998, between the
Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.2 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 of the Company (File No.
333-139839), filed January 8, 2007.)

4.4

—

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 7, 1998, between the Company
and State Street Bank and Trust Company as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.3 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 of the Company (File No. 333-139839),
filed January 8, 2007.)

4.5

—

Amended and Restated Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 10, 2000
between the Company and State Street Bank and Trust Company as Trustee. (Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 of the Company (File
No. 333-139839), filed January 8, 2007.)

4.6

—

Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 18, 2006, between the
Company and U.S. Bank National Association as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.5 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 of the Company (File No. 333-139839),
filed January 8, 2007.)

4.7

—

Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan of the Company. (Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 8.1 to Registration Statement on
Form S-3 of the Company (File No. 333-87063), filed September 14, 1999.)

4.8

—

Amendment to the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
filed on December 17, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement
filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 on December 17, 1999.)


4.9

—

Amendment to the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
filed on March 26, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus Supplement filed
pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 on March 26, 2004.)

10.1

—

Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement, dated August 6, 2003, among the
Company and the Agents, including Administrative Procedures, relating to the MTNs.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 5,
2004.)

10.2

—

Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of AvalonBay Value Added
Fund, L.P., dated as of March 16, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.3+

—

Endorsement Split Dollar Agreements and Amendments thereto with Messrs.
Blair, Naughton, Fuller, Sargeant, Horey and Meyer (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.4+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2003, between the Company and
Thomas J. Sargeant. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 3 to
the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-103755), filed July 7,
2003.)

10.5+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Thomas J.
Sargeant, dated as of March 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to
Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.6+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of January 10, 2003, between the Company and
Bryce Blair. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-K of the Company
filed March 11, 2003.)

10.7+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Bryce
Blair, dated as of March 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form
10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.8+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of February 26, 2001, between the Company
and Timothy J. Naughton. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Form 10-K of
the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

10.9+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Timothy J.
Naughton, dated as of March 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
Form 10-Q of the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.10+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2001, between the Company and Leo
S. Horey. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Form 10-K of the Company
filed March 1, 2007.)

10.11+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Leo S. Horey,
dated as of March 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Form 10-Q of
the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.12+

—

Employment Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2001, between the Company and
Samuel B. Fuller. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-K of the
Company filed March 26, 2002.)


10.13+

—

First Amendment to Employment Agreement between the Company and Samuel B. Fuller,
dated as of March 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Form 10-Q of
the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.14+

—

Separation Agreement between the Company and Samuel B. Fuller, dated as of April
6, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed
May 6, 2005.)

10.15+

—

Retirement Agreement, dated as of March 24, 2000, between the Company and Gilbert
M. Meyer. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Form 10-K of the Company filed
March 1, 2007.)

10.16+

—

First Amendment to Retirement Agreement between the Company and Gilbert M. Meyer,
dated as of March 31, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Form 10-Q of
the Company filed May 6, 2005.)

10.17+

—

Avalon Properties, Inc. 1993 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.17 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

10.18+

—

Avalon Properties, Inc. 1995 Equity Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.18 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

10.19+

—

Amendment, dated May 6, 1999, to the Avalon Properties Amended and Restated 1995
Equity Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19.1 to Form 10-K of
the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

10.20+

—

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated in
full on December 8, 2004. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.B 1 to Form 8-K of
the Company filed December 14, 2004.)

10.21+

—

Amendment, dated February 9, 2006, to the AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock
Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on December 8, 2004. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.32 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 14, 2006.)

10.22+

—

Amendment, dated December 6, 2006, to the AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock
Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on December 8, 2004. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.22 1 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

10.23+

—

Amendment, dated September 20, 2007, to the AvalonBay Communities, Inc. 1994 Stock
Incentive Plan, as amended and restated on December 8, 2004. (Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed November 9, 2007.)

10.24+

—

1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated June 26, 1997, as amended
and restated. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Post-effective Amendment
No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 of the Company (File No. 333-16837), filed
June 26, 1997.)

10.25+

—

1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan — Plan Information Statement dated
June 26, 1997. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Registration Statement on
Form S-8 of the Company (File No. 333-16837), filed November 26, 1996.)


10.26+

—

Form of Indemnity Agreement between the Company and its Directors. (Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q of the Company filed November 9, 2005.)

10.27+

—

The Company’s Officer Severance Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26
to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 1, 2007.)

10.28+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (1994
Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed on February 12, 2008.)

10.29+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Incentive Stock Option Agreement (1994 Stock
Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed on February 12, 2008.)

10.30+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Grant and Restricted Stock
Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
on November 4, 2004.)

10.31+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Director Restricted Unit Agreement.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on November
9, 2007.)

10.32+

—

Form of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. Director Restricted Stock Agreement.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on November
9, 2007.)

10.33

—

First Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Revolving Loan
Agreement, dated as of November 13, 2007, among the Company, as Borrower, the banks
signatory thereto, each as a Bank, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K of the Company filed November
16, 2007.)

10.34+

—

Rules and Procedures for Non-Employee Directors’ Deferred Compensation Program.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to Form 10-K of the Company filed March 1,
2007.)

10.35+

—

Compensation Arrangements for Directors and Named Executive Officers.
(Incorporated by reference to Item 5.02 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed February 12, 2008.)

10.36+

—

Amendment, effective September 30, 2007, to the Company’s quarterly compensation
of Non-Employee Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed on November 9, 2007.)

12.1

—

Statements re: Computation of Ratios. (Filed herewith.)

21.1

—

Schedule of Subsidiaries of the Company. (Filed herewith.)

23.1

—

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP. (Filed herewith.)

31.1

—

Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(Chief Executive Officer). (Filed herewith.)


31.2

—

Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(Chief Financial Officer). (Filed herewith.)


—

Certification pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer). (Filed herewith.)

+

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed or incorporated
by reference as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(a)(3) of Form 10-K.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

AvalonBay Communities, Inc.

By:

/s/ Bryce Blair

Date: February 27, 2008

Bryce Blair, Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

Date: February 27, 2008

By:

/s/ Bryce Blair

Bryce Blair, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

By:

/s/ Thomas J. Sargeant

Date: February 27, 2008

Thomas J. Sargeant, Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

Date: February 27, 2008

By:

/s/ Bruce A. Choate

Bruce A. Choate, Director

Date: February 27, 2008

By:

/s/ John J. Healy, Jr.

John J. Healy, Jr., Director

Date: February 27, 2008

By:

/s/ Gilbert M. Meyer

Gilbert M. Meyer, Director

Date: February 27, 2008

By:

/s/ Timothy J. Naughton

Timothy J. Naughton, Director

Date: February 27, 2008

By:

/s/ Lance R. Primis

Lance R. Primis, Director

Date: February 27, 2008

By:

/s/ Peter S. Rummell

Peter S. Rummell, Director

Date: February 27, 2008

By:

/s/ H. Jay Sarles

H. Jay Sarles, Director

Date: February 27, 2008

By:

/s/ Allan D. Schuster

Allan D. Schuster, Director

Date: February 27, 2008

By:

/s/ Amy P. Williams

Amy P. Williams, Director


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board
of Directors and Stockholders of

AvalonBay Communities, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations and other
comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2007. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in
the Index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. at December 31, 2007
and 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2007 in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
February 25, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

McLean, Virginia

February 25, 2008

F-1

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The Board
of Directors and Stockholders of

AvalonBay Communities, Inc.:

We have audited AvalonBay Communities, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). AvalonBay
Communities, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting in Item 9a. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control
over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, AvalonBay Communities, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 based on the COSO criteria

.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations and other
comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2007 of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. and our report dated February
25, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

McLean, Virginia

February 25, 2008

F-2

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

12-31-07

12-31-06

ASSETS

Real estate:

Land

$

1,024,111

$

943,724

Buildings and improvements

5,130,872

4,501,494

Furniture, fixtures and equipment

160,330

141,303

6,315,313

5,586,521

Less accumulated depreciation

(1,259,558

)

(1,080,313

)

Net operating real estate

5,055,755

4,506,208

Construction in progress, including land

953,004

641,781

Land held for development

288,423

202,314

Operating real estate assets held for sale, net

—

160,059

Total real estate, net

6,297,182

5,510,362

Cash and cash equivalents

21,222

8,284

Cash in escrow

189,171

135,917

Resident security deposits

29,542

26,429

Investments in unconsolidated real estate entities

57,990

42,724

Deferred financing costs, net

28,177

26,140

Deferred development costs

60,996

39,365

Prepaid expenses and other assets

52,204

59,286

Total assets

$

6,736,484

$

5,848,507

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Unsecured notes, net

$

1,893,499

$

2,153,078

Variable rate unsecured credit facility

514,500

—

Mortgage notes payable

800,203

648,350

Dividends payable

67,909

60,417

Payables for construction

91,580

59,232

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

237,932

192,022

Accrued interest payable

38,578

37,189

Resident security deposits

42,477

37,654

Liabilities related to real estate assets held for sale

—

69,100

Total liabilities

3,686,678

3,257,042

Minority interest of unitholders in consolidated partnerships

23,152

18,311

Commitments and contingencies

—

—

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; $25 liquidation preference;
50,000,000 shares
authorized at both December 31, 2007 and 2006; 4,000,000 shares issued
and outstanding at both December 31, 2007 and 2006



Common stock, $0.01 par value; 140,000,000 shares
authorized at both December 31, 2007
and 2006; 77,318,611 and 74,668,372 shares issued and outstanding at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively



Additional paid-in capital

3,026,708

2,482,516

Accumulated earnings less dividends

2,499

93,430

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(3,366

)

(3,579

)

Total stockholders’ equity

3,026,654

2,573,154

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

6,736,484

$

5,848,507

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-3

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

Revenue:

Rental and other income

$

806,599

$

715,170

$

650,907

Management, development and other fees

6,142

6,259

4,304

Total revenue

812,741

721,429

655,211

Expenses:

Operating expenses, excluding property taxes

242,702

217,134

197,990

Property taxes

74,912

66,786

63,975

Interest expense, net

97,545

109,184

125,171

Depreciation expense

179,549

160,442

156,455

General and administrative expense

28,494

24,767

25,761

Total expenses

623,202

578,313

569,352

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

59,169

7,455

7,198

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

(1,585

)

(573

)

(1,481

)

Gain on sale of land


13,519

4,479

Income from continuing operations

247,668

163,517

96,055

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operations

4,005

5,618

19,126

Gain on sale of communities

106,487

97,411

195,287

Total discontinued operations

110,492

103,029

214,413

Net income

358,160

266,546

310,468

Dividends attributable to preferred stock

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

(8,700

)

Net income available to common stockholders

$

349,460

$

257,846

$

301,768

Other comprehensive income:

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges



2,626

Comprehensive income

$

349,673

$

258,737

$

304,394

Earnings per common share — basic:

Income from continuing operations
(net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

3.04

$

2.09

$

1.20

Discontinued operations

1.40

1.39

2.94

Net income available to common stockholders

$

4.44

$

3.48

$

4.14

Earnings per common share — diluted:

Income from continuing operations
(net of dividends attributable to preferred stock)

$

3.00

$

2.06

$

1.18

Discontinued operations

1.38

1.36

2.87

Net income available to common stockholders

$

4.38

$

3.42

$

4.05

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-4

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(Dollars in thousands)

Accumulated

Accumulated

Shares issued

Additional

earnings

other

Total

Preferred

Common

Preferred

Common

paid-in

less

comprehensive

stockholders’

stock

stock

stock

stock

capital

dividends

loss

equity

Balance at December 31, 2004

4,000,000

72,582,076

$


$


$

2,380,852

$

(21,159

)

$

(7,096

)

$

2,353,363

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

310,468

—

310,468

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,626

2,626

Change in redemption value of minority interest

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Dividends declared to common
and preferred stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

(216,982

)

—

(216,982

)

Issuance of common stock

—

1,080,972

—


40,378

(377

)

—

40,012

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

8,338

—

—

8,338

Balance at December 31, 2005

4,000,000

73,663,048



2,429,568

71,950

(4,470

)

2,497,825

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

266,546

—

266,546

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—



Change in redemption value of minority interest

—

—

—

—

—

(2,593

)

—

(2,593

)

Dividends declared to common
and preferred stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

(241,155

)

—

(241,155

)

Issuance of common stock

—

1,005,324

—


38,839

(1,318

)

—

37,531

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

14,109

—

—

14,109

Balance at December 31, 2006

4,000,000

74,668,372



2,482,516

93,430

(3,579

)

2,573,154

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

358,160

—

358,160

Unrealized gain on cash flow hedges

—

—

—

—

—

—



Change in redemption value of minority interest

—

—

—

—

—

(6,124

)

—

(6,124

)

Dividends declared to common
and preferred stockholders

—

—

—

—

—

(276,823

)

—

(276,823

)

Issuance of common stock

—

5,130,855

—


619,359

(1,741

)

—

617,669

Purchase of common stock

—

(2,480,616

)

—

(25

)

(93,501

)

(164,403

)

—

(257,929

)

Amortization of deferred compensation

—

—

—

—

18,334

—

—

18,334

Balance at December 31, 2007

4,000,000

77,318,611

$


$


$

3,026,708

$

2,499

$

(3,366

)

$

3,026,654

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-5

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Dollars in thousands)

For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

358,160

$

266,546

$

310,468

Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided
by operating activities:

Depreciation expense

179,549

160,442

156,454

Depreciation expense from discontinued operations

2,176

3,687

6,842

Amortization of deferred financing costs and debt premium/discount

4,934

4,474

4,022

Amortization of stock-based compensation

14,353

10,095

4,292

Income allocated to minority interest in consolidated partnerships

1,585


1,481

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities, net of eliminations

(58,122

)

(6,480

)

(6,565

)

Return on investment of unconsolidated entities




Gain on sale of real estate assets

(107,032

)

(110,930

)

(199,766

)

Increase in cash in operating escrows

(7,403

)

(844

)

(4,344

)

Decrease (increase) in resident security deposits,
prepaid expenses and other assets

8,747

(4,381

)

8,547

Increase in accrued expenses, other liabilities
and accrued interest payable

58,748

28,180

24,487

Net cash provided by operating activities

455,825

351,660

306,248

Cash flows from investing activities:

Development/redevelopment of real estate assets including
land acquisitions and deferred development costs

(1,112,590

)

(735,167

)

(382,871

)

Acquisition of real estate assets, including partner equity interest

(13,841

)

(74,924

)

(57,415

)

Capital expenditures — existing real estate assets

(13,851

)

(21,289

)

(17,570

)

Capital expenditures — non-real estate assets

(1,424

)

(957

)

(1,520

)

Proceeds from sale of real estate and technology investments,
including reimbursement for Fund communities, net of selling costs

261,089

272,223

469,292

Increase in payables for construction

32,348

34,542

5,198

Decrease (increase) in cash in construction escrows

54,149

19,572

(21,784

)

Increase in investments in unconsolidated real estate entities

(15,127

)

(5,371

)

(13,091

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(809,247

)

(511,371

)

(19,761

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Issuance of common stock

621,029

26,551

36,611

Repurchase of common stock

(257,929

)

—

—

Dividends paid

(268,966

)

(234,958

)

(215,391

)

Net borrowings (repayments) under unsecured credit facility

514,500

(66,800

)

(35,200

)

Issuance of mortgage notes payable and draws on construction loans

59,126

113,849

26,269

Repayments of mortgage notes payable

(27,256

)

(6,827

)

(41,932

)

Issuance (repayment) of unsecured notes

(260,000

)

343,743

(50,000

)

Payment of deferred financing costs

(6,550

)

(12,698

)

(1,292

)

Redemption of units for cash by minority partners

(6,851

)

(80

)

(50

)

Contributions from minority and profit-sharing partners

1,333

—

—

Distributions to DownREIT partnership unitholders

(280

)

(392

)

(1,194

)

Distributions to joint venture and profit-sharing partners

(1,796

)

(108

)

(114

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

366,360

162,280

(282,293

)

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

12,938

2,569

4,194

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

8,284

5,715

1,521

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

21,222

$

8,284

$

5,715

Cash paid during year for interest, net of amount capitalized

$

98,594

$

102,640

$

121,526

See accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-6

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (continued)

Supplemental disclosures of non-cash investing and financing activities (dollars in thousands):

During the year ended December 31, 2007:

•

As described in Note 4, “Stockholders’ Equity,” 75,231 shares of common stock valued at
$10,971 were issued in connection with stock grants, 2,929 shares valued at $365 were
issued through the Company’s dividend reinvestment plan, 41,000 shares valued at $4,381
were withheld to satisfy employees’ tax withholding and other liabilities and 8,609 shares
valued at $231 were forfeited, for a net value of $6,724. In addition, the Company granted
331,356 options for common stock, net of forfeitures, at a value of $7,518.

•

19,231 units of limited partnership, valued at $887, were presented for redemption to
the DownREIT partnerships that issued such units and were acquired by the Company in
exchange for an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock.

•

The Company recorded a decrease to other liabilities and a corresponding gain to other
comprehensive income of $213 to adjust the Company’s Hedging Derivatives (as defined in
Note 5, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”) to their fair value.

•

The Company issued $100,000 of variable rate tax-exempt debt relating to Avalon
Morningside Park. The proceeds were placed in an escrow account until requisitioned for
construction funding, none of which has been drawn for use in the development of the
community.

•

Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid totaled
$67,909.

•

The Company recorded an increase of $6,124 to minority interest with a corresponding
decrease to accumulated earnings less dividends to adjust the redemption value associated
with a put option held by a joint venture partner. This put option allows our partner to
put their interest in the investment to the Company at the future fair market value.

During the year ended December 31, 2006:

•

As described in Note 4, “Stockholders’ Equity,” 122,172 shares of common stock valued at
$12,568 were issued in connection with stock grants, 2,306 shares valued at $256 were
issued through the Company’s dividend reinvestment plan, 47,111 shares valued at $3,449
were withheld to satisfy employees’ tax withholding and other liabilities and 5,910 shares
valued at $193 were forfeited, for a net value of $9,182. In addition, the Company granted
849,769 options for common stock, net of forfeitures, at a value of $9,946.

•

308,345 units of limited partnership, valued at $14,166, were presented for redemption
to the DownREIT partnerships that issued such units and were acquired by the Company in
exchange for an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock.

•

The Company issued $187,300 of variable rate, tax-exempt debt, of which $107,451 in
proceeds were not received, but placed in an escrow until requisitioned for construction
funding.

•

The Company recorded a decrease to other liabilities and a corresponding gain to other
comprehensive income of $891 to adjust the Company’s Hedging Derivatives (as defined in
Note 5, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”) to their fair value.

•

The Company recorded an increase of $2,593 to minority interest with a corresponding
decrease to accumulated earnings less dividends to adjust the redemption value associated
with a put option held by a joint venture partner. This put option allows our partner to
put their interest in the investment to the Company at the future fair market value.

•

Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid totaled $60,417.

F-7

During the year ended December 31, 2005:

•

165,790 shares of common stock were issued in connection with stock grants, 1,295 shares
were issued through the Company’s dividend reinvestment plan, 8,971 shares were issued to a
member of the Board of Directors in fulfillment of a deferred stock award, 50,916 shares
were withheld to satisfy employees’ tax withholding and other liabilities and 9,965 shares
were forfeited, for a net value of $9,317. In addition, the Company granted 696,484
options for common stock, net of forfeitures, at a value of $4,521.

•

49,263 units of limited partnership, valued at $2,202, were presented for redemption to
the DownREIT partnerships that issued such units and were acquired by the Company in
exchange for an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock.

•

The Company deconsolidated mortgage notes payable in the aggregate amount of $24,869
upon admittance of outside investors into the Fund (as defined in Note 6, “Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities”).

•

The Company assumed fixed rate debt of $4,566 as part of the acquisition of an improved
land parcel.

•

The Company recorded a decrease to other liabilities and a corresponding gain to other
comprehensive income of $2,626 to adjust the Company’s Hedging Derivatives to their fair
value.

•

Common and preferred dividends declared but not paid totaled $54,476.

F-8

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

1.

Organization and Significant Accounting Policies

Organization

AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the “Company,” which term, unless the context otherwise requires,
refers to AvalonBay Communities, Inc. together with its subsidiaries), is a Maryland corporation
that has elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) under the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 (“the Code”), as amended. The Company focuses on the ownership and operation of
apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. These markets are
located in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Pacific Northwest, and Northern and Southern
California regions of the country.

At December 31, 2007, the Company owned or held a direct or indirect ownership interest in 163
operating apartment communities containing 45,932 apartment homes in ten states and the District of
Columbia, of which eight communities containing 2,231 apartment homes were under reconstruction.
The operations of 139 of these communities, containing 40,509 apartment homes are consolidated for
financial reporting purposes. In addition, the Company owned or held a direct or indirect
ownership interest in 21 communities under construction that are expected to contain an aggregate
of 6,816 apartment homes when completed. The Company also owned or held a direct or indirect
ownership interest in rights to develop an additional 48 communities that, if developed as
expected, will contain an estimated 13,656 apartment homes.

Principles of Consolidation

The Company is the surviving corporation from the merger (the “Merger”) of Bay Apartment
Communities, Inc. (“Bay”) and Avalon Properties, Inc. (“Avalon”) on June 4, 1998, in which Avalon
shareholders received 0.7683 of a share of common stock of the Company for each share owned of
Avalon common stock. The Merger was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, with
the historical financial statements for Avalon presented prior to the Merger. At that time, Avalon
ceased to legally exist, and Bay as the surviving legal entity adopted the historical financial
statements of Avalon. Consequently, Bay’s assets were recorded in the historical financial
statements of Avalon at an amount equal to Bay’s debt outstanding at that time plus the value of
capital stock retained by the Bay stockholders, which approximates fair value. In connection with
the Merger, the Company changed its name from Bay Apartment Communities, Inc. to AvalonBay
Communities, Inc.

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its
wholly-owned partnerships, certain joint venture partnerships, subsidiary partnerships structured
as DownREITs and any variable interest entities consolidated under FASB Interpretation No. 46 (“FIN
46(R)”), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51,” as revised
in December 2003. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

The Company assesses consolidation of variable interest entities under the guidance of FIN 46(R).
The Company accounts for joint venture entities and subsidiary partnerships, including those
structured as DownREITs, that are not variable interest entities, in accordance with EITF Issue No.
04-5, “Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a
Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have
Certain Rights,” Statement of
Position (“SOP”) 78-9, “Accounting for Investments in
Real Estate Ventures,” Accounting Principles
Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 18, “The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock” and
EITF Topic D-46, “Accounting for Limited Partnership Investments.” The Company uses EITF Issue No.
04-5 to evaluate the partnership of each joint venture entity and determine whether control over
the partnership, as defined by the EITF, lies with the general partner, or the limited partners,
when the limited partners have certain rights. The general partner in a limited partnership is
presumed to control that limited partnership, unless that presumption is overcome by the limited
partners having either: (i) the substantive ability, either by a single limited partner or through
a simple majority vote, to dissolve the limited partnership or otherwise remove the general partner
without cause; or (ii) substantive participating rights. If the Company is the general partner and
has control over the partnership, or if the Company’s limited partnership ownership includes the
ability to dissolve the partnership, or has substantive participating rights, as discussed above,
the Company consolidates the investments. If
the Company is not the general partner, or the Company’s partnership interest does not contain
either of the above terms which overcome the presumption of control in a limited partnership
residing with the general partner, the Company then looks to the guidance in SOP 78-9, APB No. 18
and EITF Topic D-46 to determine the accounting framework to apply. The Company generally uses the
equity method to account for these investments unless its ownership interest is so minor that it
has virtually no influence over the partnership’s operating and financial policies. Investments in
which the Company has little or no influence are accounted for using the cost method.

F-9

In each of the partnerships structured as DownREITs, either the Company or one of the Company’s
wholly owned subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are one or more limited partners whose
interest in the partnership is represented by units of limited partnership interest. For each
DownREIT partnership, limited partners are entitled to receive an initial distribution of current
cash flow before any distribution is made to the general partner. Although the partnership
agreements for each of the DownREITs are different, generally the distributions per unit paid to
the holders of units of limited partnership interests have approximated the Company’s current
common stock dividend per share. The holders of units of limited partnership interests have the
right to present all or some of their units for redemption for a cash amount as determined by the
applicable partnership agreement and based on the fair value of the Company’s common stock. In
lieu of cash redemption, the Company may elect to exchange such units for an equal number of shares
of the Company’s common stock.

In conjunction with the acquisition and development of investments in unconsolidated entities, the
Company may incur costs in excess of its equity in the underlying assets. These costs are
capitalized and depreciated over the life of the underlying assets to the extent that the Company
expects to recover the costs.

If there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates a loss in the value of an investment,
the Company’s policy is to record the loss and reduce the value of the investment to its fair
value. A loss in value would be indicated if the Company could not recover the carrying value of
the investment or if the investee could not sustain an earnings capacity that would justify the
carrying amount of the investment. The Company did not recognize an impairment loss on any of its
investments in unconsolidated entities during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 or 2005.

Revenue and Gain Recognition

Rental income related to leases is recognized on an accrual basis when due from residents in
accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, “Revenue Recognition,” and Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 13, “Accounting for Leases.” In accordance with the
Company’s standard lease terms, rental payments are generally due on a monthly basis. Any cash
concessions given at the inception of the lease are amortized over the approximate life of the
lease, which is generally one year.

The Company accounts for sales of real estate assets and the related gain recognition in accordance
with SFAS No. 66, “Accounting for Sales of Real Estate.”

Real Estate

Operating real estate assets are stated at cost and consist of land, buildings and improvements,
furniture, fixtures and equipment, and other costs incurred during their development, redevelopment
and acquisition. Significant expenditures which improve or extend the life of an asset are
capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.

The Company’s policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize only
non-recurring expenditures. Improvements and upgrades are capitalized only if the item exceeds $15,
extends the useful life of the asset and is not related to making an apartment home ready for the
next resident. Purchases of personal property, such as computers and furniture, are capitalized
only if the item is a new addition and exceeds $2.5. The Company generally expenses purchases of
personal property made for replacement purposes.

The capitalization of costs during the development of assets (including interest and related loan
fees, property taxes and other direct and indirect costs) begins when the Company has determined
that development of the future asset is probable and ends when the asset, or a portion of an asset,
is delivered and is ready for its intended use. For
redevelopment efforts, we capitalize costs beginning either (i) in advance of taking homes out of
service when significant renovation of the common area has begun until the redevelopment is
completed, or (ii) when an apartment home is taken out-of-service for redevelopment until the
redevelopment is completed and the apartment home is available for a new resident. Rental income
and operating costs incurred during the initial lease-up or post-redevelopment lease-up period are
recognized as they accrue.

F-10

In accordance with SFAS No. 67, “Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate
Projects,” the Company capitalizes pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new development
opportunities for which the Company currently believes future development is probable (“Development
Rights”). Future development of these Development Rights is dependent upon various factors,
including zoning and regulatory approval, rental market conditions, construction costs and
availability of capital. Pre-development costs incurred in the pursuit of Development Rights for
which future development is not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In addition, if
the status of a Development Right changes, making future development by the Company no longer
probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are written-off with a charge to expense. The
Company expensed costs related to abandoned pursuits, which includes the abandonment or impairment
of Development Rights, acquisition pursuits and disposition pursuits, in the amounts of $6,974 in
2007, $2,115 in 2006 and $816 in 2005. These costs are included in operating expenses, excluding
property taxes on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive
Income. Abandoned pursuit costs can vary greatly, and the costs incurred in any given period may
be significantly different in future years.

The Company owns land improved with office buildings and industrial space occupied by unrelated
third parties in connection with five Development Rights. The Company intends to manage the
current improvements until such time as all tenant obligations have been satisfied or eliminated
through negotiation, and construction of new apartment communities is ready to begin. As provided
under the guidance of SFAS No. 67, the revenue from incidental operations received from the current
improvements in excess of any incremental costs are being recorded as a reduction of total
capitalized costs of the Development Right and not as part of net income.

In connection with the acquisition of an operating community, the Company performs a valuation,
allocating to each asset and liability acquired in such transaction, their estimated fair values at
the date of acquisition in accordance with SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations.” The purchase
price allocations to tangible assets, such as land, buildings and improvements, and furniture,
fixtures and equipment, are reflected in real estate assets and depreciated over their estimated
useful lives. Any purchase price allocation to intangible assets, such as in-place leases, is
included in prepaid expenses and other assets on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and
amortized over the average remaining lease term of the acquired leases. The fair value of acquired
in-place leases is determined based on the estimated cost to replace such leases, including
foregone rents during an assumed re-lease period, as well as the impact on projected cash flow of
acquired leases with leased rents above or below current market rents.

Depreciation is calculated on buildings and improvements using the straight-line method over their
estimated useful lives, which range from seven to thirty years. Furniture, fixtures and equipment
are generally depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which
range from three years (primarily computer-related equipment) to seven years.

It is the Company’s policy to perform a quarterly qualitative analysis to determine if there are
changes in circumstances that suggest the carrying value of a long-lived asset may not be
recoverable. If there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates an impairment in the
value of an operating community, the Company compares the current and projected operating cash flow
of the community over its remaining useful life, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying amount
of the community. If the carrying amount is in excess of the estimated projected operating cash
flow of the community, the Company would recognize an impairment loss equivalent to an amount
required to adjust the carrying amount to its estimated fair market value. The Company did not
recognize an impairment loss on any of its operating communities during the years ended December
31, 2007, 2006 or 2005.

F-11

Income Taxes

The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code, as amended, for the year ended December
31, 1994 and has not revoked such election. A corporate REIT is a legal entity which holds real
estate interests and must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a
requirement that it currently distribute at least 90%
of its adjusted taxable income to stockholders. As a REIT, the Company generally will not be
subject to corporate level federal income tax on taxable income if it distributes 100% of the
taxable income over the time period allowed under the Code to its stockholders. Management believes
that all such conditions for the avoidance of income taxes have been met for the periods presented.
Accordingly, no provision for federal and state income taxes has been made. If the Company fails
to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular
corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to qualify
as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT,
the Company may be subject to certain state and local taxes on its income and property, and to
federal income and excise taxes on its undistributed taxable income. In addition, taxable income
from non-REIT activities managed through taxable REIT subsidiaries is subject to federal, state and
local income taxes.

The following reconciles net income available to common stockholders to taxable net income for the
years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (unaudited):




Estimate

Actual

Actual

Net income available to common stockholders

$

349,460

$

257,846

$

301,768

Dividends attributable to preferred stock,
not deductible for tax

8,700

8,700

8,700

GAAP gain on sale of communities less than tax gain

11,808

7,242

9,345

Depreciation/Amortization timing differences on real estate

(49,971

)

(21,974

)

(13,503

)

Tax compensation expense in excess of GAAP

(29,067

)

(26,540

)

(18,969

)

Other adjustments

12,259

13,335

8,423

Taxable net income

$

303,189

$

238,609

$

295,764

The following summarizes the tax components of the Company’s common and preferred dividends
declared for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (unaudited):




Ordinary income


%


%


%

15% capital gain


%


%


%

Unrecaptured §1250 gain


%


%


%

Deferred Financing Costs

Deferred financing costs include fees and other expenditures necessary to obtain debt financing and
are amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective interest method, over the
shorter of the term of the loan or the related credit enhancement facility, if applicable.
Unamortized financing costs are written-off when debt is retired before the maturity date.
Accumulated amortization of deferred financing costs was $19,368 at December 31, 2007 and was
$16,179 at December 31, 2006.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Cash in Escrow

Cash and cash equivalents include all cash and liquid investments with an original maturity of
three months or less from the date acquired. Cash in escrow consists primarily of construction
financing proceeds that are restricted for use in the construction of a specific community. The
majority of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and cash in escrows are held at major commercial
banks.

Interest Rate Contracts

The Company utilizes derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk and generally
designates these financial instruments as cash flow hedges under the guidance of SFAS No. 133,
“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended. This statement
requires that derivatives be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured
at its fair value, with changes in fair value recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. For cash flow hedge relationships, changes in the fair value of
the derivative instrument that are deemed effective at offsetting the risk being hedged are
reported in other comprehensive income. For cash flow hedges where the cumulative changes in the
fair value of the derivative exceed the cumulative changes in fair value of the hedged item, the
ineffective portion is recognized in current period earnings. As of December 31, 2007 and December
31, 2006, the Company had approximately $213,108 and $262,000, respectively, in variable rate debt
subject to cash flow hedges. As of December 31, 2007, the Company did not apply hedge accounting
for an additional $92,400 in variable rate debt which is subject to interest rate caps. See Note
5, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” for further discussion of derivative financial
instruments.

F-12

Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income, as reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other
Comprehensive Income, is defined as all changes in equity during each period except for those
resulting from investments by or distributions to shareholders. Accumulated other comprehensive
loss as reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity reflects the effective
portion of the cumulative changes in the fair value of derivatives in qualifying cash flow hedge
relationships.

Earnings per Common Share

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 128, “Earnings per Share,” basic earnings per share
is computed by dividing earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of
shares outstanding during the period. Other potentially dilutive common shares, and the related
impact to earnings, are considered when calculating earnings per share on a diluted basis. The
Company’s earnings per common share are determined as follows:

For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

Basic and diluted shares outstanding

Weighted average common shares — basic

78,680,043

74,125,795

72,952,492

Weighted average DownREIT units outstanding

105,859

172,255

474,440

Effect of dilutive securities

1,071,025

1,288,848

1,332,386

Weighted average common shares — diluted

79,856,927

75,586,898

74,759,318

Calculation of Earnings per Share — basic

Net income available to common stockholders

$

349,460

$

257,846

$

301,768

Weighted average common shares — basic

78,680,043

74,125,795

72,952,492

Earnings per common share — basic

$

4.44

$

3.48

$

4.14

Calculation of Earnings per Share — diluted

Net income available to common stockholders

$

349,460

$

257,846

$

301,768

Add: Minority interest of DownREIT unitholders
in consolidated partnerships, including discontinued operations



1,363

Adjusted net income available to common stockholders

$

349,740

$

258,237

$

303,131

Weighted average common shares — diluted

79,856,927

75,586,898

74,759,318

Earnings per common share — diluted

$

4.38

$

3.42

$

4.05

Certain options to purchase shares of common stock in the amounts of 335,856 and 3,000 were
outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively, but were
not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because in applying the treasury
stock method under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),
“Share Based Payments,” as discussed below,
such options are anti-dilutive. Employee options to purchase shares of common stock of 4,500 were
outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2005, but were not included in the computation of
diluted earnings per share because the options’ exercise prices were greater than the average
market price of the common shares for the period and therefore, are anti-dilutive.

F-13

Stock-Based Compensation

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No.
123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” as amended by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure — an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123,”
prospectively to all employee awards granted, modified, or settled on or after January 1, 2003.
Awards under the Company’s stock option plans vest over a three-year period. Therefore, the cost
related to stock-based employee compensation for employee stock options included in the
determination of net income for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 is the same as the cost
that would have been recognized if the fair value based method had been applied to all awards since
the original effective date of SFAS No. 123. However, the cost related to stock-based employee
compensation for employee stock options included in the determination of net income for the year
ended December 31, 2005 is less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value based
method had been applied to all awards granted since the original effective date of SFAS No. 123.
If the fair value based method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested awards in the year
ended December 31, 2005, net income would have been $112 lower for the year ended December 31,
2005. There would not have been any material impact on earnings per common share — diluted for the
year ended December 31, 2005.

The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective transition
method on January 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) did not have a material impact on the
Company’s financial position or results of operations. However, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)
changed the service period for, and timing of, the recognition of compensation cost related to
retirement eligibility, which will generally result in accelerated expense recognition by the
Company for its stock-based compensation programs. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the
Company recorded compensation cost over the vesting period, regardless of eligibility for
retirement (see Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for a discussion of the Company’s
retirement plan). If the Company had recorded compensation cost based on retirement eligibility,
the increase to compensation cost during the year ended December 31, 2005 would not have been
material.

Under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company is required to estimate the forfeiture of
stock options and recognize compensation cost net of the estimated forfeitures. The estimated
forfeitures included in compensation cost are adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures at the end of
the vesting period. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), option forfeitures were recognized
as they occurred. The forfeiture rate at December 31, 2007 was 2.3%. The application of estimated
forfeitures did not materially impact compensation expense for the year ended
December 31, 2007 or 2006.

Assets Held for Sale & Discontinued Operations

The Company follows SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”
(“SFAS 144”) which requires that the assets and liabilities of any communities which have been
sold, or otherwise qualify as held for sale, be presented separately in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. In addition, the results of operations for those assets that meet the definition of
discontinued operations are presented as such in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of
Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. Held for sale and discontinued operations
classifications are provided in both the current and prior periods presented. Real estate assets
held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount or the fair value less the cost to
sell. Both the real estate assets and corresponding liabilities are presented separately in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Subsequent to classification of a community as held for
sale, no further depreciation is recorded. For those assets qualifying for classification as
discontinued operations, the community specific components of net income presented as discontinued
operations include net operating income, minority interest expense, depreciation expense and
interest expense, net. For periods prior to the asset qualifying for discontinued operations under
SFAS 144, the Company reclassified the results of operations to discontinued operations in
accordance with SFAS 144. Subsequent to the reclassification to discontinued operations, the impact
of assets classified as discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and
Other Comprehensive Income will include depreciation. In addition, the net gain or loss (including
any impairment loss) on the eventual disposal of communities held for sale will be presented as
discontinued operations when recognized. A change in presentation for held for sale or
discontinued operations will not have any impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of
operations. The Company combines the operating, investing and financing portions of cash flows
attributable to discontinued operations with the respective cash flows from continuing operations
on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

F-14

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain
estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts in prior years’ financial statements to conform
to current year presentations.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

The Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes — an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,” (“FIN 48”), on January 1, 2007. The
Company did not have any unrecognized tax benefits and there was no material effect on either the
financial condition or results of operations of the Company as a result of implementing FIN 48.
We do not believe that there will be any material changes in our unrecognized tax positions over
the next 12 months. The Company is subject to examination by the respective taxing authorities for
the tax years 2004 through 2006.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements,” which standardizes the
definition of fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures
about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that
require or permit fair value measurements, and accordingly, this statement does not require any new
fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for all fiscal years beginning after November
15, 2007. The Company does not believe that the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have any material
impact on its financial position or results of operations.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 141(R), “Business Combinations.”

This statement
changes the accounting for acquisitions specifically eliminating the step acquisition model,
changing the recognition of
contingent consideration from being recognized when it is probable to being recognized at the time
of acquisition, disallowing the capitalization of transaction costs and delays when restructurings
related to acquisitions can be recognized. The standard is effective for fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2008 and will only impact the accounting for acquisitions subsequent to adoption of
the standard.

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 160, “Accounting and Reporting of Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB
No. 51.”

Under this statement,
noncontrolling interests are considered equity and thus our practice of reporting minority
interests in the mezzanine section of the consolidated balance sheet will be eliminated. Also,
under the new standard, net income will encompass the total income of all consolidated subsidiaries
and there will be separate disclosure on the face of the consolidated statement of operations and
other comprehensive income of the attribution of that income between controlling and noncontrolling
interests. Last, increases and decreases in noncontrolling interests will be treated as equity
transactions. The standard is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008.

In December 2007, the FASB ratified the consensus of Emerging Issues Task Force on Issue 07-6
“Accounting for the Sale of Real Estate Subject to the Requirements of FASB Statement No. 66 (“SFAS
66”) When the Agreement Includes a Buy-Sell Clause” (“EITF 07-6”). EITF 07-6 addresses the impact
of a buy-sell clause contained within a joint venture agreement on a seller’s continuing
involvement in the entity and corresponding ability to recognize profit on a sale of real estate to
the joint venture, in which they retain a partial ownership interest. In EITF 07-6, the Task Force
reached a consensus that a buy-sell clause, in and of itself, does not constitute a prohibited form
of continuing involvement that would preclude partial sales treatment under SFAS 66. However, a
buy-sell clause may constitute a prohibited form of continuing involvement that precludes partial
sales treatment if the buyer cannot act independently from the seller or if the seller is
economically compelled to reacquire the other partner’s interest in the jointly owned entity. EITF
07-6 is effective for new arrangements entered into in fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years.

F-15

2.

Interest Capitalized

The Company capitalizes interest during the development and redevelopment of real estate assets in
accordance with SFAS No. 34, “Capitalization of Interest Cost.” Capitalized interest associated
with communities under development or redevelopment totaled $73,118 for 2007, $46,388 for 2006 and
$25,284 for 2005.

3.

Notes Payable, Unsecured Notes and Credit Facility

The Company’s mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and variable rate unsecured credit facility
as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 are summarized below. The following amounts and
discussion do not include the mortgage notes related to three communities classified as held for
sale as of December 31, 2006 as shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheets (see Note 7, “Real Estate
Disposition Activities”).

12-31-07

12-31-06

Fixed rate unsecured notes

(1)

$

1,893,499

$

2,153,078

Fixed rate mortgage notes payable — conventional and tax-exempt

230,050

210,114

Variable rate mortgage notes payable — conventional and tax-exempt

570,153

438,236

Total notes payable and unsecured notes

2,693,702

2,801,428

Variable rate unsecured credit facility

514,500

—

Total mortgage notes payable, unsecured notes and unsecured credit facility

$

3,208,202

$

2,801,428

(1)

Balances at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 include $2,501 and $2,922 of debt discount, respectively.

The following debt activity occurred during the year ended December 31, 2007:

•

we issued $16,926 of variable rate mortgage debt for an operating community in June,
maturing in May 2012;

•

we repaid $15,980 of mortgage debt, secured by the assets of an operating community in
July;

•

we assumed $3,941 of fixed rate mortgage debt in conjunction with the acquisition of an
operating community in July 2007 and subsequently defeased the note in December 2007;

•

we issued $100,000 of variable rate, tax-exempt debt for a development community in
September, maturing in November 2040;

•

we repaid $150,000 in previously issued unsecured notes in August 2007, along with any
unpaid interest, pursuant to their scheduled maturity;

•

we issued $42,200 of fixed rate, tax-exempt mortgage debt for an operating community in
September 2007, maturing in October 2047;

•

in conjunction with the sale of a community we were relieved of our obligation related
to the mortgage note secured by the assets of the community in the amount of $8,116, as it
was assumed by the purchaser in September;

•

we repaid $110,000 in previously issued unsecured notes in December 2007, along with any
unpaid interest, pursuant to their scheduled maturity;

•

we borrowed $514,500 under our unsecured credit facility; and

•

we increased our borrowing capacity under our unsecured credit facility by $350,000, to
$1,000,000.

In the aggregate, secured notes payable mature at various dates from October 2008 through April
2043 and are secured by certain apartment communities and improved land parcels (with a net
carrying value of $1,202,135 as of December 31, 2007). As of December 31, 2007, the Company has
guaranteed approximately $108,575 of mortgage notes payable held by wholly owned subsidiaries; all
such mortgage notes payable are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. The weighted
average interest rate of the Company’s fixed rate mortgage notes payable (conventional and
tax-exempt) was 6.5% and 6.8% at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. The
weighted average interest rate of the Company’s variable rate mortgage notes payable and its
unsecured credit facility, including the effect of certain financing related fees, was 5.4% at
December 31, 2007 and 5.8% at December 31, 2006.

F-16

Scheduled payments and maturities of mortgage notes payable and unsecured notes outstanding at
December 31, 2007 are as follows:

Unsecured

Stated

Secured notes

Secured notes

notes

interest rate of

Year

payments

maturities

maturities

unsecured notes


8,788

4,432

50,000

6.625

%

146,000

8.250

%


6,204

76,141

150,000

7.500

%


6,226

29,388

200,000

7.500

%


5,324

36,579

300,000

6.625

%

50,000

6.625

%


4,265

27,143

250,000

6.125

%

250,000

5.500

%


4,610

—

100,000

4.950

%


4,988

33,100

150,000

5.375

%


5,396

—

—

—


5,838

—

250,000

5.750

%


6,328

44,700

—

—

Thereafter

253,707

237,046

—

—

$

311,674

$

488,529

$

1,896,000

The Company’s unsecured notes contain a number of financial and other covenants with which the
Company must comply, including, but not limited to, limits on the aggregate amount of total and
secured indebtedness the Company may have on a consolidated basis and limits on the Company’s
required debt service payments.

In November 2007 we increased our borrowing capacity under our existing revolving variable rate
unsecured credit facility from $650,000 to $1,000,000. The facility is with a syndicate of
commercial banks, to whom we pay, in the aggregate, an annual facility fee of approximately $1,250.
The Company had $514,500 outstanding under the current credit facility and $61,689 outstanding in
letters of credit on December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2006 there were no amounts outstanding
under the current facility and $38,713 outstanding in letters of credit. The unsecured credit
facility bears interest at varying levels based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”),
rating levels achieved on the Company’s unsecured notes and on a maturity schedule selected by the
Company. The current stated pricing is LIBOR plus 0.40% per annum (5.81% at December 31, 2007).
The stated spread over LIBOR can vary from LIBOR plus 0.325% to LIBOR plus 1.00% based on the
Company’s credit rating. In addition, the unsecured credit facility includes a competitive bid
option, which allows banks that are part of the lender consortium to bid to make loans to the
Company at a rate that is lower than the stated rate provided by the unsecured credit facility for
up to $422,500. The competitive bid option may result in lower pricing than the stated rate if
market conditions allow. The Company did not have any amounts outstanding under this competitive
bid option as of December 31, 2007. The Company is in compliance with certain customary covenants
under the unsecured credit facility, including, but not limited to, maintaining certain maximum
leverage ratios, a minimum fixed charges coverage ratio and minimum unencumbered assets and equity
levels. The credit facility matures in November 2011, assuming exercise of a one-year renewal
option by the Company.

F-17

4.

Stockholders’ Equity

As of both December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had authorized for issuance 140,000,000 and
50,000,000 shares of common and preferred stock, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, the
Company has the following series of redeemable preferred stock outstanding at a stated value of
$100,000. This series has no stated maturity and is not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory
redemptions.

Shares outstanding

Payable

Annual

Liquidation

Non-redeemable

Series

December 31, 2007

quarterly

rate

preference

prior to

H

4,000,000

March, June, September,
December

8.70%

$25.00

October 15, 2008

Dividends on the preferred stock are cumulative from the date of original issue and are payable
quarterly in arrears on or before the 15th day of each month as stated in the table above. The
preferred stock is not redeemable prior to the date stated in the table above, but on or after the
stated date, may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company in whole or in part at a
redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends, if any.

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company:

(i)

issued 4,600,000 shares of common stock in connection with an equity offering;

(ii)

issued 474,496 shares of common stock in connection with stock options exercised;

(iii)

issued 19,231 shares of common stock to acquire an equal number of DownREIT limited
partnership units;

(iv)

issued 2,929 shares through the Company’s dividend reinvestment plan;

(v)

issued 75,231 common shares in connection with stock grants;

(vi)

issued 8,577 common shares through the Company’s Employee
Stock Purchase Plan;

(vii)

had 8,609 shares of restricted stock forfeited;

(viii)

withheld 41,000 shares to satisfy employees’ tax withholding and other liabilities; and

(ix)

purchased 2,480,616 shares through the Company’s stock repurchase program.

In addition, the Company granted 344,429 options for common stock to employees. As required under
SFAS No. 123(R), any deferred compensation related to the Company’s stock option and restricted
stock grants during the year ended December 31, 2007 is not reflected on the Company’s Consolidated
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2007, and will not be reflected until earned as
compensation cost.

Dividends per common share were $3.40 for the year ended December 31, 2007, $3.12 for the year
ended December 31, 2006 and $2.84 for the year ended December 31, 2005. The average dividend for
all non-redeemed preferred shares during 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $2.18 per share. No preferred
shares were redeemed in 2007, 2006 or 2005.

In 2004, the Company resumed its Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the “DRIP”). The
DRIP allows for holders of the Company’s common stock or preferred stock to purchase shares of
common stock through either reinvested dividends or optional cash payments. The purchase price per
share for newly issued shares of common stock under the DRIP will be equal to the last reported
sale price for a share of the Company’s common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange
(“NYSE”) on the applicable investment date.

In January 2007, the Company filed a new shelf registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, allowing the Company to sell an undetermined number or amount of certain debt
and equity securities as defined in the prospectus. In addition, in conjunction with its inclusion
in the S&P 500 Index in January 2007, the Company issued 4,600,000 shares of its common stock at
$129.30 per share, resulting in net proceeds in the amount of approximately $594,000.

During 2007, the Company announced that its Board of Directors increased to $300,000 the Company’s
common stock repurchase program for purchases of shares of its common stock in open market or
negotiated transactions. From August 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007, the Company repurchased
2,480,616 shares at an average price of $103.95 per share through this program. The Company did
not have any purchases under this program prior to August 1, 2007.

F-18

5.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

The Company enters into interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements (collectively, the
“Hedging Derivatives”) to reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations on its variable rate,
tax-exempt bonds and its variable rate conventional secured debt (collectively, the “Hedged Debt”).
The Company has not entered into any interest rate hedge agreements for its conventional unsecured
debt and does not enter into derivative transactions for trading or other speculative purposes.
The following table summarizes the consolidated Hedging Derivatives at December 31, 2007 (dollars
in thousands):

Interest

Interest

Rate Caps

Rate Swaps

Notional balance

$

235,973

$

46,337

Weighted average interest rate

(1)

5.0

%

6.5

%

Weighted average capped interest rate

7.5

%

n/a

Earliest maturity date

May-09

Jun-10

Latest maturity date

Mar-14

Jul-10

Estimated fair value, asset/(liability)

$


$

(2,808

)

(1)

For interest rate caps, this represents the weighted average interest rate on the
debt.

At December 31, 2007, the Company had nine derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and four
derivatives not designated as hedges. For the derivative positions that the Company has determined
qualify as effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133, the Company has recorded the effective
portion of cumulative changes in the fair value of the Hedging Derivatives in other comprehensive
income. Amounts recorded in other comprehensive income will be reclassified into earnings in the
periods in which earnings are affected by the hedged cash flow. To adjust the Hedging Derivatives
to their fair value, the Company recorded unrealized gains in other comprehensive income of $213,
$891 and $2,626 during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These
amounts will be reclassified into earnings in conjunction with the periodic adjustment of the
floating rates on the Hedged Debt, in interest expense, net. The amount reclassified into earnings
in 2007, as well as the estimated amount included in accumulated other comprehensive income as of
December 31, 2007, expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months to
offset the variability of cash flows of the hedged items during this period are not material.

The Company assesses both at inception and on an on-going basis, the effectiveness of qualifying
cash flow hedges. Hedge ineffectiveness, reported as a component of general and administrative
expenses, did not have a material impact on earnings of the Company for any prior period, and the
Company does not anticipate that it will have a material effect in the future. The fair values of
the Hedging Derivatives are included in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Derivative financial instruments expose the Company to credit risk in the event of nonperformance
by the counterparties under the terms of the Hedging Derivatives. The Company minimizes its credit
risk on these transactions by dealing with major, creditworthy financial institutions which have an
A+ or better credit rating by the Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group. As part of its on-going control
procedures, the Company monitors the credit ratings of counterparties and the exposure of the
Company to any single entity, thus minimizing credit risk concentration. The Company believes the
likelihood of realizing losses from counterparty non-performance is remote.

F-19

6.

Investments in Real Estate Entities

Investments in Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities

The Company accounts for its investments in unconsolidated real estate entities in accordance with
the literature as discussed in Note 1, “Organization and Significant Accounting Policies”, under

Principles of Consolidation

.

In October 2007, the Company completed the sale of its partnership interest in Avalon Grove to its
third-party venture partner for $63,446 with a gain in accordance with GAAP of $56,320 reported as
a component of equity in income of unconsolidated entities on the Consolidated Statements of
Operations and Other Comprehensive Income. Avalon Grove, located in the Fairfield-New Haven market
of Connecticut, was previously reported as an unconsolidated real estate investment. The Company
will continue to manage this community for a customary property management fee.

As of December 31, 2007, the Company had investments in the following real estate entities:

•

Arna Valley View LP

- In connection with the municipal approval process for the
development of a consolidated community, the Company agreed to participate in the formation
of a limited partnership in February 1999 to develop, finance, own and operate Arna Valley
View, a 101 apartment-home community located in Arlington, Virginia. This community has
affordable rents for 100% of apartment homes related to the tax-exempt bond financing and
tax credits used to finance construction of the community. A subsidiary of the Company is
the general partner of the partnership with a 0.01% ownership interest. The Company is
responsible for the day-to-day operations of the community and is the management agent
subject to the terms of a management agreement. As of December 31, 2007, Arna Valley View
has $5,635 of variable rate, tax-exempt bonds outstanding, which mature in June 2032. In
addition, Arna Valley View has $4,938 of 4% fixed rate county bonds outstanding that mature
in December 2030. Arna Valley View’s debt is neither guaranteed by, nor recoursed to the
Company. Due to the Company’s limited ownership in this venture and the terms of the
management agreement regarding the rights of the limited partners, it is accounted for
using the cost method.

•

CVP I, LLC

- In February 2004, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with
an unrelated third-party for the development of Avalon Chrystie Place, a 361 apartment-home
community located in New York, New York, for which construction was completed in late 2005.
The Company has contributed $6,270 to this joint venture and holds a 20% equity interest
(with a right to 50% of distributions after achievement of a threshold return, which was
achieved in 2007). The Company is the managing member of CVP I, LLC, however, property
management services at the community are performed by an unrelated third party. In
connection with the construction management services that the Company provided to CVP I,
LLC during the development of Avalon Chrystie Place, the Company provided a construction
completion guarantee to the construction loan lender in order to fulfill their standard
financing requirements related to the construction financing. Upon completion of the
construction of Avalon Chrystie Place in 2006, the Company was released from all
obligations associated with this guarantee.

As of December 31, 2007, CVP I, LLC has tax-exempt variable rate bonds in the amount of
$117,000 outstanding, which have a permanent credit enhancement and mature in February 2036.
The Company has guaranteed, under limited circumstance, the repayment to the credit
enhancer of any advance in fulfillment of CVP I LLC’s repayment obligations under the bonds.
The Company has also guaranteed the credit enhancer that CVP I, LLC will obtain a final
certificate of occupancy for the project overall once tenant improvements related to a
retail tenant are complete, which is expected in the first half of 2008. The Company’s
maximum obligation under this guarantee at December 31, 2007 was $121,000. The Company’s
80% partner in this venture has agreed that it will reimburse the Company its pro rata share
of any amounts paid relative to these guaranteed obligations. The Company does not
currently expect to incur any liability under either of these guarantees. The estimated
fair value of, and the Company’s obligation under these guarantees, both at inception and as
of December 31, 2007 were not significant. As a result the Company has not recorded any
obligation associated with these guarantees at December 31, 2007. This community is
unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes and is accounted for under the equity
method.

F-20

F-21

•

MVP I, LLC

- In December 2004, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with an
unrelated third-party for the development of Avalon at Mission Bay North II. Construction
for Avalon at Mission Bay North II, a 313 apartment-home community located in San Francisco,
California, was completed in December 2006. The Company has contributed $5,902 to this
venture and holds a 25% equity interest. The Company is responsible for the day-to-day
operations of the community and is the management agent subject to the terms of a management
agreement. To fund the construction of Avalon at Mission Bay North II, MVP I, LLC executed
a variable rate $94,400 secured construction loan. In conjunction with the construction
management services that the Company provided to MVP I, LLC, the Company provided a
construction completion guarantee to the construction loan lender in order to fulfill their
standard financing requirements related to construction financing. In the fourth quarter of
2007, all of the lender’s standard completion requirements have been satisfied and the
obligation of the Company under this guarantee terminated. In December 2007, MVP I, LLC
repaid the construction loan, concurrently executing a seven-year, fixed rate conventional
loan. This community is unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes and is accounted
for under the equity method.

•

AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P. (the “Fund”)

- In March 2005, the Company admitted
outside investors into the Fund, a private, discretionary investment vehicle, which will
acquire and operate communities in the Company’s markets. The Fund will serve, until March
16, 2008 or until 80% of its committed capital is invested, as the principal vehicle
through which the Company will acquire apartment communities, subject to certain
exceptions. The Fund has nine institutional investors, including the Company, and a
combined equity capital commitment of $330,000. A significant portion of the investments
made in the Fund by its investors are being made through AvalonBay Value Added Fund, Inc.,
a Maryland corporation that qualifies as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the “Fund
REIT”). A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is the general partner of the Fund and
has committed $50,000 to the Fund and the Fund REIT, representing a 15.2% combined general
partner and limited partner equity interest, with $43,399 of this commitment funded as of
December 31, 2007. The Fund has invested $777,568 as of December 31, 2007. Management
of the Fund expects to invest approximately $46,000 of additional funds to redevelop
the assets acquired, at which time the Fund will become fully invested. Upon the
admittance of the outside investors, the Fund held four communities, containing a total of
879 apartment homes with an aggregate gross real estate value of $112,852, that were
acquired in 2004. Prior to the admittance of outside investors, the Fund was directly or
indirectly wholly-owned by the Company, and therefore the revenues and expenses, and assets
and liabilities of these four communities were consolidated in the Company’s results of
operations and financial position. However, upon admittance of the outside investors in
March 2005, the Company deconsolidated the revenue and expenses, and assets and liabilities
of these four communities and accounts for its 15.2% equity interest in the Fund under the
equity method of accounting. The Company received net proceeds of $87,948 as reimbursement
for acquiring and warehousing these communities. The Company receives asset management
fees, property management fees and redevelopment fees, as well as a promoted interest if
certain thresholds are met (which were not achieved in 2007).

As of December 31, 2007, the Fund owns the following 20 communities, subject to certain
mortgage debt. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, the Fund has $47,400 outstanding under
its variable rate credit facility, which matures in January 2008. The Company has not
guaranteed any of the Fund debt, nor does it have any obligation to fund this debt should
the Fund be unable to do so.

•

Avalon at Redondo Beach, a 105 apartment-home community located in Los Angeles,
California. As of December 31, 2007, Avalon at Redondo Beach has $16,765 in 4.8%
fixed rate debt outstanding, which matures in October 2011;

•

Avalon Lakeside, a 204 apartment-home community located in Chicago, Illinois.
As of December 31, 2007, Avalon Lakeside has $12,056 in 5.7% fixed rate debt
outstanding which matures in March 2012;

•

Avalon Columbia, a 170 apartment-home community located in Baltimore, Maryland.
As of December 31, 2007, Avalon Columbia has $22,275 in 5.5% fixed rate debt
outstanding, which matures in April 2012;

•

Avalon Redmond, a 400 apartment-home community located in Seattle, Washington.
As of December 31, 2007, Avalon Redmond has $36,500 in 5.0% fixed rate debt
outstanding, which matures in July 2012;

F-22

In addition, as part of the formation of the Fund, the Company provided a guarantee to one of the
limited partners. The guarantee provides that, if, upon final liquidation of the Fund, the total
amount of all distributions to that partner during the life of the Fund (whether from operating
cash flow or property sales) does not equal the total capital contributions made by that partner,
then the Company will pay the partner an amount equal to the shortfall, but in no event more than
10% of the total capital contributions made by the partner (maximum of approximately $6,510 as of
December 31, 2007). As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the real estate assets owned by the
Fund is considered adequate to cover such potential payment under a liquidation scenario. The
estimated fair value of and the Company’s obligation under this guarantee, both at inception and as
of December 31, 2007 was not significant and therefore the Company has not recorded any obligation
for this guarantee as of December 31, 2007.

F-23

The following is a combined summary of the financial position of the entities accounted for using
the equity method, as of the dates presented:

12-31-07

12-31-06

(unaudited)

(unaudited)

Assets:

Real estate, net

$

997,319

$

724,795

Other assets

31,774

55,716

Total assets

$

1,029,093

$

780,511

Liabilities and partners’ capital:

Mortgage notes payable and credit facility

$

719,310

$

510,784

Other liabilities

20,496

51,108

Partners’ capital

289,287

218,619

Total liabilities and partners’ capital

$

1,029,093

$

780,511

The following is a combined summary of the operating results of the entities accounted for using
the equity method, for the years presented:

For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

(unaudited)

(unaudited)

(unaudited)

Rental income

$

92,075

$

67,207

$

35,826

Operating and other expenses

(40,090

)

(30,913

)

(19,582

)

Gain on sale of communities

—

26,661

—

Interest expense, net

(40,791

)

(23,545

)

(7,648

)

Depreciation expense

(26,622

)

(18,054

)

(8,482

)

Net income (loss)

$

(15,428

)

$

21,356

$


In conjunction with the acquisition and development of the investments in unconsolidated entities,
the Company incurred costs in excess of its equity in the underlying net assets of the respective
investments. These costs represent $5,375 at December 31, 2007 and $7,491 at December 31, 2006 of
the respective investment balances.

Investments in Unconsolidated Non-Real Estate Entities

In February 2005, the Company sold its interest in a technology venture that was accounted for
under the cost method. As a result of this transaction, the Company received net proceeds of
approximately $6,700 and recognized a gain on the sale of this investment of $6,252, which is
reflected in equity in income of unconsolidated entities on the accompanying Consolidated Statement
of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2005. Under the terms
of the sale, certain proceeds were escrowed to secure the purchaser’s rights to indemnification.
Any amounts not used for this purpose were distributed to the former investors in the venture in
2006. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recognized $433 for the final installment
of the gain on this sale upon release of this escrow.

F-24

The following is a summary of the Company’s equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated entities for
the years presented:

For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

Town Grove, LLC

$

57,821

$

1,457

$

1,286

Avalon Del Rey, LLC

3,616

—

—

CVP I, LLC


(68

)

(339

)

Town Run Associates




Avalon
Terrace, LLC

(1)


6,736


MVP I, LLC

(1,261

)

(662

)

(57

)

AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P.

(1,775

)

(799

)

(341

)

AvalonBay Redevelopment LLC

—

—


Rent.com

—


6,252

Constellation Real Technologies



—

Total

(2)

$

59,169

$

7,455

$

7,198

(1)

Equity in income from this entity for 2006 includes a gain of $6,609 for the
Company’s 25% share of the gain from the fourth quarter disposition
of Avalon Bedford, the sole asset held by Avalon Terrace, LLC.

(2)

This table does not include Aria at  Hathorne. As a development
community, all costs are
being capitalized, resulting in no reportable income.

7.

Real Estate Disposition Activities

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company sold four communities: Avalon View, located in
Wappingers Falls, New York, San Marino, located in San Jose, California, Avalon West, located in
Westborough, Massachusetts and Avalon at Stevens Pond, located in Saugus, Massachusetts. These
four communities contained a total of 982 apartment homes and were sold for an aggregate sales
price of $204,650. The Company also sold its interest in Avalon Grove, which contained 402
apartment homes for a sales price of $63,446. The sale of these communities and partnership
interest resulted in a gain in accordance with GAAP of $162,807. Details regarding the community
asset sales are summarized in the following table:

Period

Apartment

Gross sales

Net

Community Name

Location

of sale

homes

Debt

price

proceeds

Avalon View

Wappingers Falls, NY

Q307


$

—

$

54,000

$

53,293

San Marino

San Jose, CA

Q307


—

55,000

54,333

Avalon West

Westborough, MA

Q307


8,116

18,000

9,585

Avalon at Stevens Pond

Saugus, MA

Q407


—

77,650

76,784

Avalon Grove

(1)

Stamford, CT

Q407


—

63,446

63,401

Total of all 2007 asset sales

1,384

$

8,116

$

268,096

$

257,396

Total of all 2006 asset sales

1,036

$

37,200

$

261,850

$

218,492

Total of all 2005 asset sales

1,305

$

—

$

351,450

$

344,185

(1)

The Company held and sold its 50% ownership interest in the LLC that developed, owned and operated
Avalon Grove. The Company will continue to manage this community for a customary property
management fee.

As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no communities that qualified as discontinued operations
or held for sale under the provisions of SFAS No. 144.

In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 144, the operations for any communities sold from
January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2007 and the communities that qualified as discontinued
operations as of December 31, 2007 have been presented as discontinued operations in the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Accordingly, certain reclassifications have been
made in prior periods to reflect discontinued operations consistent with current period
presentation.

F-25

The following is a summary of income from discontinued operations for the periods presented:

For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

Rental income

$

10,911

$

17,658

$

42,336

Operating and other expenses

(4,043

)

(6,491

)

(14,441

)

Interest expense, net

(687

)

(1,862

)

(1,927

)

Depreciation expense

(2,176

)

(3,687

)

(6,842

)

Income from discontinued
operations

$

4,005

$

5,618

$

19,126

The Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets include other assets (excluding net real estate) of $0
and $3,821 as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively, and other liabilities of $0
as of December 31, 2007 and $69,100 as of December 31, 2006, relating to real estate assets sold or
classified as held for sale.

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company sold one parcel of land through a taxable REIT
subsidiary, located in the Mid-Atlantic, for a sales price of $5,800, resulting in a gain of $545
under GAAP

.

The Company had gains on the sales of land parcels of $13,519 in 2006, and $4,479 in
2005.

8.

Commitments and Contingencies

Employment Agreements and Arrangements

As of December 31, 2007, the Company had employment agreements with four executive officers. The
employment agreements provide for severance payments and generally provide for accelerated vesting
of stock options and restricted stock in the event of a termination of employment (except for a
termination by the Company with cause or a voluntary termination by the employee). The current
terms of these agreements end on dates that vary between November 2008 and June 2009. The
employment agreements provide for one-year automatic renewals (two years in the case of the Chief
Executive Officer (“CEO”)) after the initial term unless an advance notice of non-renewal is
provided by either party. Upon a notice of non-renewal by the Company, each of the officers may
terminate his employment and receive a severance payment. Upon a change in control, the agreements
provide for an automatic extension of up to three years from the date of the change in control.
The employment agreements provide for base salary and incentive compensation in the form of cash
awards, stock options and stock grants subject to the discretion of, and attainment of performance
goals established by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

The Company’s stock incentive plan, as described in Note 10, “Stock-Based Compensation Plans,”
provides that upon an employee’s Retirement (as defined in the plan documents) from the Company,
all outstanding stock options and restricted shares of stock held by the employee will vest, and
the employee will have up to 12 months to exercise any options held upon retirement. Under the
plan, Retirement means a termination of employment, other than for cause, after attainment of age
50, provided that (i) the employee has worked for the Company for at least 10 years, (ii) the
employee’s age at Retirement plus years of employment with the Company equals at least 70, (iii)
the employee provides at least six months written notice of his intent to retire, and (iv) the
employee enters into a one year non-compete and employee non-solicitation agreement.

F-26

The Company also has an Officer Severance Program (the “Program”) for the benefit of those officers
of the Company who do not have employment agreements. Under the Program, in the event an officer
who is not otherwise covered by a severance arrangement is terminated (other than for cause) within
two years following a change in control (as defined) of the Company, such officer will generally
receive a cash lump sum payment equal to the sum of such officer’s base salary and cash bonus, as
well as accelerated vesting of stock options and restricted stock. Costs related to the Company’s
employment agreements and the Program are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting
for Contingencies,” and therefore are recognized when considered by management to be probable and
estimable.

Construction and Development Contingencies

In connection with the pursuit of a Development Right in Pleasant Hill, California, $125,000 in
bond financing was issued by the Contra Costa County Redevelopment Agency (the “Agency”) in
connection with the possible future construction of a multifamily rental community by PHVP I, LLC.
The bond proceeds were immediately invested in their entirety in a guaranteed investment contract
(“GIC”) administered by a trustee. This Development Right is planned as a mixed-use development,
with residential, for-sale, retail and office components. The bond proceeds will remain in the GIC
until June 2008, at which time a loan will be made to PHVP I, LLC to fund construction of the
multifamily portion of the development, or the bonds will be redeemed by the Agency. Although the
Company does not have any equity or economic interest in PHVP I, LLC at this time, the Company
holds an option to make a capital contribution to PHVP I, LLC in exchange for a 99% general partner
interest in the entity. Should the Company decide not to exercise this option, the bonds will be
redeemed, and a loan will not be made to PHVP I, LLC. The bonds are payable from the proceeds of
the GIC and are non-recourse to both PHVP I, LLC and to the Company. There is no loan payable
outstanding by PHVP I, LLC as of December 31, 2007.

In addition, as part of providing construction management services to PHVP I, LLC for the
construction of a public garage, the Company has provided a construction completion guarantee to
the related lender in order to fulfill their standard financing requirements related to the garage
construction financing. The Company’s obligations under this guarantee will terminate following
construction completion of the garage once all of the lender’s standard completion requirements
have been satisfied, which the Company currently expects to occur in 2008. In the third quarter of
2006, significant modifications were requested by the local transit authority to change the garage
structure design. The Company does not believe that the requested design changes will impact the
construction schedule. However, it is expected that these changes will increase the original
budget by an amount up to $5,000. The Company believes that substantially all potential additional
amounts are reimbursable from unrelated third parties. At this time, the Company does not believe
that it is probable that it will incur any additional costs. The estimated fair value of and the
Company’s obligation under this guarantee, both at inception and as of December 31, 2007 was not
significant and therefore the Company has not recorded any obligation for this guarantee as of
December 31, 2007.

Legal Contingencies

The Company is currently involved in litigation alleging that 100 communities currently or formerly
owned by the Company violated the accessibility requirements of the Fair Housing Act and the Americans with
Disabilities Act. The lawsuit, Equal Rights Center v. AvalonBay Communities, Inc., was filed on
September 23, 2005 in the federal district court in Maryland. The plaintiff seeks compensatory and
punitive damages in unspecified amounts as well as injunctive relief (such as modification of
existing communities), an award of attorneys’ fees, expenses and costs of suit. The Company has
filed a motion to dismiss all or parts of the suit, which has not been ruled on yet by the court.
The Company cannot predict or determine the outcome of this lawsuit, nor is it reasonably possible
to estimate the amount of loss, if any, that would be associated with an adverse decision.

During 2006, the Company determined that contaminated soil from imported fill was delivered to its
Avalon Lyndhurst development site by third parties. The contaminants exceeded allowable levels for
residential use under New Jersey state and local regulations. The remediation effort is complete.
The net cost associated with this remediation effort, after considering insurance proceeds received
to date and including costs associated with construction delays, is approximately $6,000. The
Company is pursuing the recovery of these additional net costs from the third parties involved, but
no assurance can be given as to the amount or timing of reimbursements to the Company. The Company
recorded these incremental costs as incurred, and is recording potential recoveries as they become
certain or are received. Although the net costs to complete construction of this community
exceeded the original construction budget, the Company has determined that there is not an
impairment in the value of this asset which would require a write down
in the carrying value. The Company will continue to review this assessment based on changes in
circumstances or market conditions.

F-27

In addition, the Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the
ordinary course of business. These matters are frequently covered by insurance. If it has been
determined that a loss is probable to occur, the estimated amount of the loss is expensed in the
financial statements. While the resolution of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty,
management currently believes the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse
effect on the financial position or results of operations of the Company.

Lease Obligations

The
Company owns 11 apartment communities which are located on land subject to land leases expiring
between November 2028 and March 2142. In addition, the Company leases certain office space. These
leases are accounted for as operating leases under SFAS No. 13, “Accounting for Leases.” These
leases have varying escalation terms, and four of these leases have purchase options exercisable
between 2008 and 2095. The Company incurred costs of $15,516, $14,850 and $15,163 in the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to these leases.

The following table details the future minimum lease payments under the Company’s current leases:

Payments due by period






Thereafter

$14,412

$14,537

$14,571

$14,613

$14,655

$2,069,951

9.

Segment Reporting

The Company’s reportable operating segments include Established Communities, Other Stabilized
Communities, and Development/Redevelopment Communities. Annually as of January 1

st

, the
Company determines which of its communities fall into each of these categories and maintains that
classification, unless disposition plans regarding a community change, throughout the year for the
purpose of reporting segment operations.

•

Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities)

are communities where a
comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as
these communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the
beginning of the prior year. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Established
Communities are communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, had
stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of January 1, 2006, are not conducting or
planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities and are not held for sale or
planned for disposition within the current year. A community is considered to have
stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii)
the one-year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment.

•

Other Stabilized Communities

includes all other completed communities that have
stabilized occupancy, as defined above. Other Stabilized Communities do not include
communities that are conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment
activities within the current year.

•

Development/Redevelopment Communities

consists of communities that are under
construction and have not received a final certificate of occupancy, communities where
substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current year
and communities under lease-up, that had not reached stabilized occupancy, as defined
above, as of January 1, 2007.

In addition, the Company owns land held for future development and has other corporate assets that
are not allocated to an operating segment.

F-28

SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,” requires that
segment disclosures present the measure(s) used by the chief operating decision maker for purposes
of assessing such segments’ performance. The Company’s chief operating decision maker is comprised
of several members of its
executive management team who use net operating income (“NOI”) as the primary financial measure for
Established Communities and Other Stabilized Communities. NOI is defined by the Company as total
revenue less direct property operating expenses. Although the Company considers NOI a useful
measure of a community’s or communities’ operating performance, NOI should not be considered an
alternative to net income or net cash flow from operating activities, as determined in accordance
with GAAP. NOI excludes a number of income and expense categories as detailed in the
reconciliation of NOI to net income.

A reconciliation of NOI to net income for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is as
follows:

For the year ended

12-31-07

12-31-06

12-31-05

Net income

$

358,160

$

266,546

$

310,468

Indirect operating expenses, net of corporate
income

31,285

28,811

26,675

Investments and investment management

11,737

7,030

4,834

Interest expense, net

97,545

109,184

125,171

General and administrative expense

28,494

24,767

25,761

Equity in income of unconsolidated entities

(59,169

)

(7,455

)

(7,198

)

Minority interest in consolidated partnerships

1,585


1,481

Depreciation expense

179,549

160,442

156,455

Gain on sale of real estate assets

(107,032

)

(110,930

)

(199,766

)

Income from discontinued operations

(4,005

)

(5,618

)

(19,126

)

Net operating income

$

538,149

$

473,350

$

424,755

The primary performance measure for communities under development or redevelopment depends on the
stage of completion. While under development, management monitors actual construction costs
against budgeted costs as well as lease-up pace and rent levels compared to budget.

The table below provides details of the Company’s segment information as of the dates specified.
The segments are classified based on the individual community’s status as of the beginning of the
given calendar year. Therefore, each year the composition of communities within each business
segment is adjusted. Accordingly, the amounts between years are not directly comparable. The
accounting policies applicable to the operating segments described above are the same as those
described in Note 1, “Organization and Significant Accounting Policies.” Segment information for
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 has been adjusted for the communities that were
sold from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2007, or otherwise qualify as discontinued
operations as of December 31, 2007, as described in Note 7, “Real Estate Disposition Activities.”

F-29

Total

% NOI change

Gross

revenue

NOI

from prior year

real estate (1)

For the year ended December 31, 2007

Established

Northeast

$

276,423

$

184,643

3.7

%

$

1,805,241

Mid-Atlantic

114,144

71,882

6.4

%

690,573

Midwest

12,070

7,286

2.3

%

92,879

Pacific Northwest

33,594

23,111

17.1

%

290,308

Northern California

160,442

116,516

12.6

%

1,395,022

Southern California

56,091

40,219

5.9

%

349,719

Total Established

652,764

443,657

7.2

%

4,623,742

Other Stabilized

47,857

30,325

n/a

356,038

Development / Redevelopment

106,013

64,167

n/a

2,240,744

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

288,423

Non-allocated (2)

6,107

n/a

n/a

47,793

Total

$

812,741

$

538,149

13.7

%

$

7,556,740

For the year ended December 31, 2006

Established

Northeast

$

198,062

$

134,001

5.2

%

$

1,232,590

Mid-Atlantic

100,462

61,870

14.9

%

627,789

Midwest

11,478

7,121

7.4

%

92,408

Pacific Northwest

33,103

21,819

13.0

%

316,089

Northern California

149,531

104,588

11.6

%

1,406,401

Southern California

57,632

41,115

9.3

%

374,606

Total Established

550,268

370,514

9.4

%

4,049,883

Other Stabilized

87,939

55,337

n/a

811,053

Development / Redevelopment

76,356

47,499

n/a

1,324,929

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

202,314

Non-allocated (2)

6,866

n/a

n/a

42,437

Total

$

721,429

$

473,350

11.4

%

$

6,430,616

For the year ended December 31, 2005

Established

Northeast

$

161,399

$

108,334

3.8

%

$

1,032,589

Mid-Atlantic

68,575

48,613

3.9

%

387,801

Midwest

11,113

6,627

7.1

%

91,755

Pacific Northwest

30,080

19,312

8.0

%

315,331

Northern California

143,070

97,434

3.5

%

1,454,734

Southern California

48,800

35,319

6.7

%

331,315

Total Established

463,037

315,639

4.4

%

3,613,525

Other Stabilized

71,682

35,967

n/a

636,073

Development / Redevelopment

116,144

73,149

n/a

1,158,482

Land Held for Future Development

n/a

n/a

n/a

179,739

Non-allocated (2)

4,348

n/a

n/a

30,741

Total

$

655,211

$

424,755

9.3

%

$

5,618,560

(1)

Does not include gross real estate assets held for sale of
$0, $184,977 and $321,586 as of
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

(2)

Revenue represents third-party management, accounting and developer fees and miscellaneous
income which are not allocated to a reportable segment.

F-30

10.

Stock-Based Compensation Plans

The Company has a stock incentive plan (the “1994 Plan”), which was amended and restated on
December 8, 2004, and amended on February 9, 2006, December 6, 2006 and September 19, 2007.
Individuals who are eligible to participate in the 1994 Plan include officers, other associates,
outside directors and other key persons of the Company and its subsidiaries who are responsible for
or contribute to the management, growth or profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries. The
1994 Plan authorizes (i) the grant of stock options that qualify as incentive stock options
(“ISOs”) under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, (ii) the grant of stock options that do
not so qualify, (iii) grants of shares of restricted and unrestricted common stock, (iv) grants of
deferred stock awards, (v) performance share awards entitling the recipient to acquire shares of
common stock and (vi) dividend equivalent rights.

Shares of common stock of 2,160,738, 1,791,861 and 2,066,308 were available for future option or
restricted stock grant awards under the 1994 Plan as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Annually on January 1

st

, the maximum number available for issuance under
the 1994 Plan is increased by between 0.48% and 1.00% of the total number of shares of common stock
and DownREIT units actually outstanding on such date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum
number of shares of stock for which ISOs may be issued under the 1994 Plan shall not exceed
2,500,000 and no awards shall be granted under the 1994 Plan after May 11, 2011. Options and
restricted stock granted under the 1994 Plan vest and expire over varying periods, as determined by
the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

Before the Merger, Avalon had adopted its 1995 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Avalon 1995 Incentive
Plan”). Under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan, a maximum number of 3,315,054 shares (or 2,546,956
shares as adjusted for the Merger) of common stock were issuable, plus any shares of common stock
represented by awards under Avalon’s 1993 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the “Avalon 1993 Plan”)
that were forfeited, canceled, reacquired by Avalon, satisfied without the issuance of common stock
or otherwise terminated (other than by exercise). Options granted to officers, non-employee
directors and associates under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan generally vested over a three-year
term, expire ten years from the date of grant and are exercisable at the market price on the date
of grant.

In connection with the Merger, the exercise prices and the number of options under the Avalon 1995
Incentive Plan and the Avalon 1993 Plan were adjusted to reflect the equivalent Bay shares and
exercise prices based on the 0.7683 share conversion ratio used in the Merger. Officers,
non-employee directors and associates with Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan or Avalon 1993 Plan options
may exercise their adjusted number of options for the Company’s common stock at the adjusted
exercise price. As of June 4, 1998, the date of the Merger, options and other awards ceased to be
granted under the Avalon 1993 Plan or the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan. Accordingly, there were no
options to purchase shares of common stock available for grant under the Avalon 1995 Incentive Plan
or the Avalon 1993 Plan at December 31, 2007, 2006 or 2005.

F-31

Information with respect to stock options granted under the 1994 Plan, the Avalon 1995 Incentive
Plan and the Avalon 1993 Plan is as follows:

Weighted

Avalon 1995

Weighted

average

and Avalon

average

1994 Plan

exercise price

1993 Plan

exercise price

shares

per share

shares

per share

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2004

2,276,818

$

42.39

186,262

$

36.23

Exercised

(743,524

)

41.89

(159,638

)

37.82

Granted

725,988

70.09

—

—

Forfeited

(29,504

)

55.66

—

—

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2005

2,229,778

$

51.40

26,624

$

37.09

Exercised

(592,308

)

50.09

(22,384

)

37.15

Granted

867,113

99.28

—

—

Forfeited

(17,344

)

79.72

—

—

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2006

2,487,239

$

69.65

4,240

$

36.81

Exercised

(471,024

)

56.57

(3,472

)

36.86

Granted

344,429

147.39

—

—

Forfeited

(38,929

)

110.28

—

—

Options Outstanding, December 31, 2007

2,321,715

$

83.15


$

36.61

Options Exercisable:

December 31, 2005

1,158,591

$

42.45

26,624

$

37.09

December 31, 2006

1,041,360

$

47.99

4,240

$

36.81

December 31, 2007

1,230,428

$

60.84


$

36.61

For options outstanding at December 31, 2007 under the 1994 Plan, 673,426 options had exercise
prices ranging between $31.50 and $59.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.2
years, 533,560 options had exercise prices ranging between $60.00 and $89.99 and a weighted average
remaining contractual life of 7.1 years, 780,373 options had exercise prices between $90.00 and
$119.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.1 years and 334,356 options had
exercise prices between $120.00 and $149.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of
9.1 years. Options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2007 for the Avalon 1993 and Avalon
1995 Plans had an exercise price of $36.61 and a weighted average contractual life of less than one
year with an intrinsic value of $44. Options outstanding under the 1994 Plan at December 31, 2007
had an intrinsic value of $25,516. Options exercisable at December 31, 2007 under the 1994 plan
had a weighted average contractual life of 5.7 years and an intrinsic value of $40,973. The
intrinsic value of options exercised during 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $17,895, $49,440 and $80,271,
respectively.

The weighted average fair value of the options granted during the year ended December 31, 2007 is
estimated at $21.83 per share on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model
with the following weighted average assumptions: dividend yield of 4.0% over the expected life of
the option, volatility of 17.32%, risk-free interest rates of 4.73% and an expected life of
approximately seven years. The weighted average fair value of the options granted during 2006 is
estimated at $11.47 per share on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model
with the following weighted average assumptions: dividend yield of 5.0% over the expected life of
the option, volatility of 17.61%, risk-free interest rates of 4.55% and an expected life of
approximately seven years. The weighted average fair value of the options granted during 2005 is
estimated at $6.40 per share on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with
the following weighted average assumptions: dividend yield of 5.5% over the expected life of the
option, volatility of 17.56%, risk-free interest rates of 3.91% and an expected life of
approximately seven years. The
cost related to stock-based employee compensation for employee stock options included in the
determination of net income is based on estimated forfeitures for the given year. Estimated
forfeitures are adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures at the end of the vesting period.

F-32

The Company issued restricted stock as part of its stock-based compensation plan during the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Compensation cost is recognized over the requisite service
period, which varies, but does not exceed five years. The fair value of restricted stock is the
closing stock price on the date of the grant. Provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) require the Company to
recognize compensation cost taking into consideration retirement eligibility. The cost related to
stock-based compensation for restricted stock included in the determination of net income is based
on actual forfeitures for the given year. Restricted stock awards typically vest over a five-year
period with the exception of accelerated vesting provisions. Restricted stock vesting during 2007
had fair values ranging from $36.66 to $147.75 per share. The total fair value of shares vested
was $8,590, $7,655 and $8,932 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Total
stock-based compensation cost recognized in income was $13,502, $10,095 and $4,292 for the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and total capitalized stock-based
compensation cost was $5,106, $4,014 and $4,046 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively. At December 31, 2007, there was a total of $8,480 and $10,850 in unrecognized
compensation cost for unvested stock options and unvested restricted stock, respectively. The
unrecognized compensation cost for stock options does not take into account estimated forfeitures.
The unrecognized compensation cost for unvested stock options and restricted stock is expected to
be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.6 years and 2.3 years, respectively.

In October 1996, the Company adopted the 1996 Non-Qualified Employee Stock Purchase Plan (as
amended, the “ESPP”). Initially 1,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under
this plan. There are currently 780,735 shares remaining available for issuance under the plan.
Full-time employees of the Company generally are eligible to participate in the ESPP if, as of the
last day of the applicable election period, they have been employed by the Company for at least one
month. All other employees of the Company are eligible to participate provided that, as of the
applicable election period they have been employed by the Company for 12 months. Under the ESPP,
eligible employees are permitted to acquire shares of the Company’s common stock through payroll
deductions, subject to maximum purchase limitations. The purchase period is a period of seven
months beginning each April 1 and ending each October 30. The purchase price for common stock
purchased under the plan is 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of the Company’s common
stock on the first day of the applicable purchase period or the last day of the applicable purchase
period. The offering dates, purchase dates and duration of purchase periods may be changed, if the
change is announced prior to the beginning of the affected date or purchase period. The Company
issued 8,577 shares, 10,830 shares and 13,372 shares and recognized compensation expense of $158,
$173 and $134 under the ESPP for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The Company accounts for transactions under the ESPP using the fair value method prescribed under
SFAS No. 123(R), as further discussed in Note 1, “Organization and Significant Accounting
Policies.”

11.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with various financial institutions and may at times
exceed the applicable Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation limit. The Company monitors credit
ratings of these financial institutions and the concentration of cash and cash equivalent balances
with any one financial institution and believes the likelihood of realizing material losses from
the excess of cash and cash equivalent balances over insurance limits is remote.

The following estimated fair values of financial instruments were determined by management using
available market information and established valuation methodologies, including discounted cash
flow. Accordingly, the estimates presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the
Company could realize on disposition of the financial instruments. The use of different market
assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value
amounts.

•

Cash equivalents, rents receivable, accounts and construction payable and accrued
expenses, and other liabilities are carried at their face amounts, which reasonably
approximate their fair values.

•

Bond indebtedness and notes payable with an aggregate outstanding par amount of
approximately $2,696,000 and $2,804,000 had an estimated aggregate fair value of
$2,756,890 and $2,910,078 at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The Company reports all derivative instruments at fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 133, as
amended. See Note 5, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” for further discussion.

F-33

12.

Related Party Arrangements

Unconsolidated Entities

The Company manages unconsolidated real estate entities for which it receives asset management,
property management, development and redevelopment fee revenue. From these entities, the Company
received fees of $6,142, $6,259 and $4,304 in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. These fees are included in management, development and other fees on the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other Comprehensive Income.

In addition, in connection with the construction management services that the Company provided to
MVP I, LLC, the entity that owns and developed Avalon at Mission Bay North II, the Company funds
certain construction costs that are expected to be reimbursed through construction financing within
30 to 60 days. Although construction was completed in 2006, final payments to vendors are still
being funded. The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect a receivable in prepaid
expenses and other assets in the amounts of $939 as of December 31, 2007 and $5,654 as of December
31, 2006, from MVP I, LLC.

Director Compensation

Directors of the Company who are also employees receive no additional compensation for their
services as a director. Following each annual meeting of stockholders starting with the 2006
annual meeting, non-employee directors receive (i) a number of shares of restricted stock (or
deferred stock awards) having a value of $100 and (ii) a cash payment of $40, payable in quarterly
installments of $10. After September 20, 2007, the cash payment increased to $50, payable in
quarterly installments of $12.5. The value of the restricted stock or deferred stock award will
increase to $125 following the 2008 annual meeting. Until the 2007 annual meeting, the number of
shares of restricted stock (or deferred stock awards) was calculated based on the last reported
sale price of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) on the fifth business day
following the prior year’s annual meeting. Following the 2007 annual meeting, the number of shares
of restricted stock (or deferred stock awards) is calculated based on the closing price on the day
of the award. Non-employee directors may elect to receive all or a portion of cash payments in the
form of a deferred stock award. In addition, the Lead Independent Director receives an annual fee
of $30 payable in equal monthly installments of $2.5.

The Company recorded non-employee director compensation expense relating to the restricted stock
grants and deferred stock awards in the amount of $855, $1,013 and $966 for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 as a component of general and administrative expense. Deferred
compensation relating to these restricted stock grants and deferred stock awards was $766 and $778
on December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively.

F-34

13.

Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

The following summary represents the quarterly results of operations for the years ended December
31, 2007 and

2006:

For the three months ended

3-31-07

6-30-07

9-30-07

12-31-07

Total revenue

(1)

$

192,735

$

199,498

$

208,123

$

212,385

Income from continuing operations

(1)

$

45,383

$

49,319

$

49,677

$

103,289

Income from discontinued operations

(1)

$

1,137

$

1,733

$

79,092

$

28,530

Net income available to common stockholders

$

44,345

$

48,877

$

126,594

$

129,644

Net income per common share — basic

(2)

$

0.57

$

0.62

$

1.60

$

1.66

Net income per common share — diluted

(2)

$

0.56

$

0.61

$

1.58

$

1.64

For the three months ended

3-31-06

6-30-06

9-30-06

12-31-06

Total revenue

(1)

$

171,284

$

176,711

$

183,646

$

189,788

Income from continuing operations

(1)

$

43,586

$

33,833

$

40,963

$

45,135

Income from discontinued operations

(1)

$

67,528

$

33,173

$

1,150

$

1,178

Net income available to common stockholders

$

108,939

$

64,831

$

39,938

$

44,138

Net income per common share — basic

$

1.48

$

0.87

$

0.54

$

0.59

Net income per common share — diluted

$

1.45

$

0.86

$

0.53

$

0.58

(1)

Amounts may not equal previously reported results due to reclassification between
income from continuing operations and income from discontinued operations.

(2)

Amounts may not equal full year results due to rounding.

14.

Subsequent Events

In January 2008, the Company repaid $50,000 in previously issued unsecured notes, along with any
unpaid interest, pursuant to their scheduled maturity.

Also in January 2008, the Company purchased an additional 482,100 shares of its common stock in
open market transactions under its share repurchase program at an average price of $87.42.

In February 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized an increase in the Company’s
stock repurchase program. The increase extended the aggregate purchase price of shares acquired in
open market or negotiated transactions up to $500,000, of which $200,000 remained available for
future purchases as of February 22, 2008.

The Company announced on February 5, 2008 that its Board of Directors declared a dividend for the
first quarter of 2008 of $0.8925 per share of the Company’s common stock (par value $0.01 per
share). The declared dividend is a 5.0% or $0.0425 per share increase over the Company’s prior
quarterly dividend of $0.85 per share.

F-35

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2007

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

/ Acquisition

Current Communities

Avalon at Lexington

2,124

12,599

1,548

2,124

14,147

16,271

6,481

9,790

12,078


Avalon Summit

1,743

14,670

1,169

1,743

15,839

17,582

6,364

11,218

—

1986/1996

Avalon at Faxon Park

1,136

14,001


1,136

14,539

15,675

5,066

10,609

—


Avalon at Prudential Center

25,811

104,399

26,629

25,811

131,028

156,839

39,460

117,379

—

1968/1998

Avalon Ledges

2,627

33,443


2,627

33,781

36,408

6,766

29,642

17,990


Avalon Orchards

2,975

18,037


2,975

18,222

21,197

3,814

17,383

19,612


Avalon at Flanders Hill

3,572

33,504


3,572

33,875

37,447

6,433

31,014

20,510


Avalon at Newton Highlands

11,038

45,527


11,038

45,647

56,685

7,049

49,636

36,335


Avalon at The Pinehills I

3,623

16,292


3,623

16,361

19,984

1,957

18,027

—


Avalon at Crane Brook

12,381

42,298


12,381

42,426

54,807

5,121

49,686

32,560


Avalon at Center Place

—

26,816

2,366

—

29,182

29,182

10,726

18,456

—

1991/1997

Avalon Shrewsbury

5,147

30,558

—

5,147

30,558

35,705

1,283

34,422

—


Avalon Woburn

20,631

60,779

—

20,631

60,779

81,410

1,536

79,874

—


Avalon Oaks

2,129

18,656


2,129

19,143

21,272

6,029

15,243

17,077


Avalon Essex

5,230

16,303


5,230

16,634

21,864

4,699

17,165

—


Avalon Oaks West

3,303

13,467


3,303

13,541

16,844

2,930

13,914

16,919


Avalon at Bedford Center

4,258

20,547

—

4,258

20,547

24,805

1,491

23,314

16,816


Avalon Chestnut Hill

14,572

45,702

—

14,572

45,702

60,274

1,906

58,368

42,149


Essex Place

4,643

19,007

3,505

4,643

22,512

27,155

2,261

24,894

—


Avalon Gates

4,414

31,268

1,488

4,414

32,756

37,170

12,031

25,139

—


Avalon Glen

5,956

23,993

2,294

5,956

26,287

32,243

12,478

19,765

—


Avalon Springs

2,116

14,664


2,116

15,097

17,213

5,640

11,573

—


Avalon Valley

2,277

23,781


2,277

24,120

26,397

7,335

19,062

—


Avalon Haven

1,264

12,491


1,264

12,750

14,014

3,538

10,476

—


Avalon Orange

2,108

19,983


2,108

19,988

22,096

2,009

20,087

—


Avalon on Stamford Harbor

10,836

51,989


10,836

52,055

62,891

10,235

52,656

—


Avalon New Canaan

4,835

19,485


4,835

19,544

24,379

3,890

20,489

—


Avalon at Greyrock Place

13,819

56,499


13,819

56,635

70,454

10,829

59,625

—


Avalon Darien

6,922

34,594


6,922

34,597

41,519

5,091

36,428

—


Avalon Milford I

8,746

22,699


8,746

22,714

31,460

2,765

28,695

—


Avalon Walk I & II

9,102

48,796

11,639

9,102

60,435

69,537

23,279

46,258

—

1992/1994

Avalon Danbury

4,905

30,581


4,905

30,610

35,515

2,664

32,851

—


Avalon Commons

4,679

28,509


4,679

29,107

33,786

10,446

23,340

—


Avalon Towers

3,118

12,709

5,499

3,118

18,208

21,326

6,804

14,522

—

1990/1995

Avalon Court

9,228

50,021


9,228

50,694

59,922

15,880

44,042

—

1997/2000

Avalon at Glen Cove South

7,871

59,969


7,871

60,094

67,965

7,266

60,699

—


Avalon Pines I

6,029

41,053

(205

)

6,029

40,848

46,877

4,134

42,743

—


Avalon at Glen Cove North

2,577

37,133

—

2,577

37,133

39,710


38,852

—


Avalon Pines II

2,877

21,888

—

2,877

21,888

24,765

1,334

23,431

—


Avalon Cove

8,760

82,453

1,968

8,760

84,421

93,181

31,275

61,906

—


Avalon at Edgewater

14,529

60,240


14,529

60,676

75,205

13,405

61,800

—


Avalon at Florham Park

6,647

34,909


6,647

35,231

41,878

9,108

32,770

—


Avalon Lyndhurst

18,620

61,730

—

18,620

61,730

80,350

1,664

78,686

—


Avalon Run East

1,579

14,668


1,579

14,779

16,358

5,719

10,639

—


F-36

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2007

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

/ Acquisition

Avalon at Freehold

4,116

30,514


4,116

30,649

34,765

6,649

28,116

—


Avalon Run East II

6,765

45,377


6,765

45,379

52,144

5,038

47,106

—


Avalon Watch

5,585

22,394

2,218

5,585

24,612

30,197

12,287

17,910

—


Avalon Run

13,071

45,818

1,167

13,071

46,985

60,056

1,917

58,139

—


Avalon Gardens

8,428

45,660

1,337

8,428

46,997

55,425

16,220

39,205

—


Avalon Green

1,820

10,525

1,364

1,820

11,889

13,709

4,808

8,901

—


Avalon Willow

6,207

40,791


6,207

41,323

47,530

11,796

35,734

—


The Avalon

2,889

28,324


2,889

28,596

31,485

8,409

23,076

—


Avalon on the Sound

—

116,231

1,001

—

117,232

117,232

23,101

94,131

—


Avalon Riverview I

—

94,166


—

94,561

94,561

18,060

76,501

—


Avalon Bowery Place I

18,572

73,641


18,572

74,436

93,008

3,003

90,005

93,800


Avalon Bowery Place II

9,107

43,171


9,107

43,249

52,356


52,208

48,500


Avalon at Fairway Hills I & II

4,147

16,599

2,179

4,147

18,778

22,925

8,319

14,606

11,500

1987/1996

Avalon Landing

1,849

7,409

1,010

1,849

8,419

10,268

3,806

6,462

5,751

1984/1995

Avalon at Fairway Hills III

4,465

17,864

7,066

4,465

24,930

29,395

8,257

21,138

—

1987/1996

Avalon at Symphony Glen

1,594

6,384

1,377

1,594

7,761

9,355

4,202

5,153

9,780


Southgate Crossing

7,207

29,151


7,207

29,152

36,359

1,210

35,149

—

1986/2006

Avalon at Foxhall

6,848

27,614

10,209

6,848

37,823

44,671

15,159

29,512

—


Avalon at Gallery Place I

8,800

39,731


8,800

40,175

48,975

6,630

42,345

—


Avalon at Decoverly

6,157

24,800

1,580

6,157

26,380

32,537

11,130

21,407

—

1991/1995

Avalon Fields I & II

4,047

18,553


4,047

18,731

22,778

7,338

15,440

10,224


Avalon Knoll

1,528

6,136

1,854

1,528

7,990

9,518

4,163

5,355

11,654


Avalon at Rock Spring

—

81,796


—

82,166

82,166

13,993

68,173

—


Avalon at Grosvenor Station

29,151

52,940


29,151

53,030

82,181

7,613

74,568

—


Avalon at Traville

14,360

55,382


14,360

55,603

69,963

7,602

62,361

—


Avalon at Ballston — Washington Towers

7,291

29,177

2,119

7,291

31,296

38,587

14,467

24,120

—


Avalon at Cameron Court

10,292

32,930


10,292

33,317

43,609

11,523

32,086

—


Avalon at Providence Park

2,152

8,907


2,152

9,702

11,854

3,569

8,285

—

1988/1997

Avalon Crescent

13,851

43,397


13,851

43,860

57,711

16,119

41,592

—


Avalon at Arlington Square

22,041

90,296


22,041

90,786

112,827

20,518

92,309

—


Avalon at Decoverly II

5,708

24,725

—

5,708

24,725

30,433

1,033

29,400

—


AutumnWoods

6,096

24,400

6,312

6,096

30,712

36,808

9,796

27,012

—

1989/1996

Avalon at West Grove

5,149

20,656

5,687

5,149

26,343

31,492

9,396

22,096

—


Avalon at Danada Farms

7,535

30,623

1,027

7,535

31,650

39,185

10,837

28,348

—


Avalon at Stratford Green

4,326

17,569


4,326

17,876

22,202

6,136

16,066

—


Avalon Arlington Heights

9,728

39,661

7,291

9,728

46,952

56,680

10,580

46,100

—

1987/2000

Avalon at Bear Creek

6,786

27,641

1,017

6,786

28,658

35,444

9,265

26,179

—


Avalon Bellevue

6,664

24,119


6,664

24,230

30,894

6,172

24,722

—


Avalon RockMeadow

4,777

19,726


4,777

20,030

24,807

5,360

19,447

—


Avalon WildReed

4,253

18,676


4,253

18,843

23,096

5,002

18,094

—


Avalon HighGrove

7,569

32,041


7,569

32,310

39,879

8,151

31,728

—


Avalon ParcSquare

3,789

15,146


3,789

15,467

19,256

4,183

15,073

—


Avalon Wynhaven

11,412

41,142


11,412

41,432

52,844

9,891

42,953

—


Avalon Brandemoor

8,630

36,679


8,630

37,015

45,645

8,908

36,737

—


Avalon Belltown

5,644

12,733


5,644

12,799

18,443

3,049

15,394

—


Avalon Redmond Place

4,558

18,368

5,474

4,558

23,842

28,400

7,888

20,512

—

1991/1997

F-37

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2007

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

/ Acquisition

Avalon Fremont I

10,746

43,399

2,566

10,746

45,965

56,711

15,444

41,267

—


Avalon Dublin

5,276

19,642

3,288

5,276

22,930

28,206

7,459

20,747

—

1989/1997

Avalon Pleasanton

11,610

46,552

4,870

11,610

51,422

63,032

17,585

45,447

—

1988/1994

Avalon at Union Square

4,249

16,820

1,553

4,249

18,373

22,622

6,366

16,256

—

1973/1996

Waterford

11,324

45,717

4,589

11,324

50,306

61,630

17,692

43,938

33,100

1985/1986

Avalon at Willow Creek

6,581

26,583

3,329

6,581

29,912

36,493

10,200

26,293

—

1985/1994

Avalon at Cedar Ridge

4,230

9,659

13,118

4,230

22,777

27,007

7,650

19,357

—

1972/1997

Avalon at Nob Hill

5,403

21,567

1,149

5,403

22,716

28,119

7,574

20,545

20,800

1990/1995

Avalon Foster City

7,852

31,445

4,655

7,852

36,100

43,952

11,595

32,357

—

1973/1994

Avalon Towers by the Bay

9,155

57,624


9,155

57,851

67,006

16,545

50,461

—


Avalon Pacifica

6,125

24,796

1,338

6,125

26,134

32,259

8,762

23,497

17,600

1971/1995

Avalon Sunset Towers

3,561

21,321

3,915

3,561

25,236

28,797

9,014

19,783

—

1961/1996

Avalon at Mission Bay North

13,814

78,452


13,814

79,067

92,881

13,342

79,539

—


Crowne Ridge

5,982

16,885

10,233

5,982

27,118

33,100

9,442

23,658

—

1973/1996

Avalon at Diamond Heights

4,726

19,130

1,471

4,726

20,601

25,327

7,096

18,231

—

1972/1994

Avalon Campbell

11,830

47,828


11,830

48,529

60,359

15,984

44,375

38,800


Avalon at Blossom Hill

11,933

48,247

2,083

11,933

50,330

62,263

16,768

45,495

—


CountryBrook

9,384

42,624


9,384

43,238

52,622

13,331

39,291

15,356

1985/1996

Avalon at River Oaks

8,904

35,121


8,904

36,104

45,008

11,834

33,174

—

1990/1996

Avalon at Foxchase I & II

11,340

45,532

4,163

11,340

49,695

61,035

17,203

43,832

26,400

1988/1987

Avalon at Parkside

7,406

29,823

1,007

7,406

30,830

38,236

10,345

27,891

—

1991/1996

Avalon on the Alameda

6,119

50,230


6,119

50,696

56,815

15,595

41,220

—


Avalon Rosewalk

15,814

62,028

1,707

15,814

63,735

79,549

20,479

59,070

—

1997/1999

Avalon at Pruneyard

3,414

15,469

13,433

3,414

28,902

32,316

10,011

22,305

—

1968/1997

Avalon Silicon Valley

20,713

99,573

2,968

20,713

102,541

123,254

33,555

89,699

—


Avalon at Creekside

6,546

26,301

10,553

6,546

36,854

43,400

11,756

31,644

—

1962/1997

Avalon at Cahill Park

4,760

47,600


4,760

47,839

52,599

9,239

43,360

—


Avalon Towers on the Peninsula

9,560

56,136


9,560

56,192

65,752

11,579

54,173

—


CountryBrook II

3,534

14,256

—

3,534

14,256

17,790


17,566

—


Avalon Mountain View

9,755

39,393

2,482

9,755

41,875

51,630

14,168

37,462

18,300


Avalon Newport

1,975

3,814

4,564

1,975

8,378

10,353

2,839

7,514

—

1956/1996

Avalon Mission Viejo

2,517

9,257

2,264

2,517

11,521

14,038

4,022

10,016

7,635

1984/1996

Avalon Santa Margarita

4,607

16,911

2,864

4,607

19,775

24,382

6,787

17,595

—

1990/1997

Avalon at Pacific Bay

4,871

19,745

7,768

4,871

27,513

32,384

9,207

23,177

—

1971/1997

Avalon at South Coast

4,709

16,063

4,953

4,709

21,016

25,725

7,374

18,351

—

1973/1996

Avalon at Mission Bay

9,922

40,633

15,937

9,922

56,570

66,492

18,202

48,290

—

1969/1997

Avalon at Mission Ridge

2,710

10,924

8,945

2,710

19,869

22,579

6,763

15,816

—

1960/1997

Avalon at Cortez Hill

2,768

20,134

11,666

2,768

31,800

34,568

10,455

24,113

—

1973/1998

Avalon at Warner Center

7,045

12,986

6,915

7,045

19,901

26,946

7,653

19,293

—

1979/1998

Avalon Glendale

—

41,433

—

—

41,433

41,433

6,372

35,061

—


Avalon at Media Center

22,483

28,104

25,958

22,483

54,062

76,545

17,264

59,281

—

1961/1997

Avalon Wilshire

5,452

40,711


5,452

40,777

46,229


45,481

—


The Promenade

14,052

56,827


14,052

56,951

71,003

10,936

60,067

30,844

1988/2002

Avalon Camarillo

8,469

39,147

—

8,469

39,147

47,616

2,275

45,341

—


Avalon Woodland Hills

23,828

40,372

10,992

23,828

51,364

75,192

17,749

57,443

—

1989/1997

$982,775

$4,609,107

$334,645

$982,775

$4,943,752

$5,926,527

$1,230,233

$4,696,294

$632,090

F-38

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2007

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost

Total Cost

Building /

Costs

Building /

Construction in

Subsequent to

Construction in

Total Cost, Net of

Year of

Progress &

Acquisition /

Progress &

Accumulated

Accumulated

Completion

Land

Improvements

Construction

Land

Improvements

Total

Depreciation

Depreciation

Encumbrances

/ Acquisition

Development Communities

Avalon at Lexington Hills

2,077

71,553

—

2,077

71,553

73,630


73,337

—

N/A

Avalon Danvers

4,260

77,301

—

4,260

77,301

81,561


80,622

—

N/A

Avalon at Hingham Shipyard

—

17,197

—

—

17,197

17,197

—

17,197

—

N/A

Avalon Sharon

—

17,429

—

—

17,429

17,429

—

17,429

—

N/A

Avalon Acton

1,992

52,630

—

1,992

52,630

54,622


54,587

45,000

N/A

Avalon Huntington

—

6,449

—

—

6,449

6,449

—

6,449

—

N/A

Avalon at Tinton Falls

—

20,334

—

—

20,334

20,334

—

20,334

—

N/A

Avalon Riverview North

—

167,105

—

—

167,105

167,105

1,101

166,004

—

N/A

Avalon on the Sound II

1,140

172,943

—

1,140

172,943

174,083

1,492

172,591

—

N/A

Avalon Morningside Park

—

48,883

—

—

48,883

48,883

—

48,883

100,000

N/A

Avalon White Plains

—

74,472

—

—

74,472

74,472

—

74,472

—

N/A

Avalon Fort Green

—

92,294

—

—

92,294

92,294

—

92,294

—

N/A

Avalon Meydenbauer

—

76,435

—

—

76,435

76,435

—

76,435

—

N/A

Avalon at Dublin Station I

2,045

78,924

—

2,045

78,924

80,969


80,924

—

N/A

Avalon Union City

—

48,059

—

—

48,059

48,059

—

48,059

—

N/A

Avalon at Mission Bay III

—

41,740

—

—

41,740

41,740

—

41,740

—

N/A

Avalon Anaheim

—

48,706

—

—

48,706

48,706

—

48,706

—

N/A

Avalon Jamboree Village

—

19,236

—

—

19,236

19,236

—

19,236

—

N/A

Avalon Fashion Valley

—

34,496

—

—

34,496

34,496

—

34,496

—

N/A

Avalon Encino

—

38,565

—

—

38,565

38,565

—

38,565

—

N/A

Avalon Warner Place

—

40,627

—

—

40,627

40,627

—

40,627

—

N/A

11,514

1,245,378

—

11,514

1,245,378

1,256,892

3,905

1,252,987

145,000

Land held for development

288,423

—

—

288,423

—

288,423

—

288,423

23,113

Corporate Overhead

29,822

23,020

32,056

29,822

55,076

84,898

25,420

59,478

2,407,999

$1,312,534

$5,877,505

$366,701

$1,312,534

$6,244,206

$7,556,740

$1,259,558

$6,297,182

$3,208,202

F-39

AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2007

(Dollars in thousands)

Amounts include real estate assets held for sale.

Depreciation of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. building, improvements, upgrades and furniture, fixtures and equipment (FF&E) is calculated over the following useful lives, on a straight line basis:

Building — 30 years

Improvements, upgrades and FF&E — not to exceed 7 years

The aggregate cost of total real estate for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $7,557,000 at December 31, 2007.

The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Balance, beginning of period

$

6,615,593

$

5,940,146

$

5,734,122

Acquisitions, construction costs and improvements

1,097,959

825,981

528,118

Dispositions, including impairment loss on planned
dispositions

(156,812

)

(150,534

)

(322,094

)

Balance, end of period

$

7,556,740

$

6,615,593

$

5,940,146

The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, are as follows:

Years ended December 31,




Balance, beginning of period

$

1,105,231

$

960,821

$

821,526

Depreciation, including discontinued operations

180,697

164,128

163,297

Dispositions

(26,370

)

(19,718

)

(24,002

)

Balance, end of period

$

1,259,558

$

1,105,231

$

960,821

F-40